02.01.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty. “I completely support the Trump Administration’s decision to withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty due to Russian noncompliance. “Russia has been in violation of the treaty for years and the Obama Administration refused to do anything about it. It’s a bad deal for America when Russia cheats and the United States complies.” #####
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON – Today, the Senate invoked cloture on a measure, cosponsored by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), that emphasizes the importance of conditions for withdrawal from Syria and Afghanistan. The Senate voted 68-23 to advance the amendment, and the measure is expected to pass next week to be included in S.1, the Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act of 2019, a bill that supports Israel and counters the Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions (BDS) movement, as well as sanctions those responsible for atrocities in Syria. Graham said: “I appreciate Senator McConnell’s amendment acknowledging the gains made by our forces, our partners, and our allies in Afghanistan and Syria under President Trump’s leadership. “I also appreciate the strong vote urging the President to be deliberate and ensure any withdrawal is based on conditions on the ground – unlike the decision made by President Obama. #####
01.31.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Donald Trump’s intent to nominate individuals to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. “I’m very supportive of the nominees submitted by President Trump to serve on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. These are highly qualified nominees and I am hopeful they will receive wide bipartisan support,” Graham said. “These nominations continue a trend by the Trump Administration of selecting highly qualified men and women to serve on the federal bench.” Background: Daniel A. Bress of California, to serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Daniel P. Collins of California, to serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Kenneth Kiyul Lee of California, to serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Nominate Judicial Nominees
01.30.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham today sent a letter to Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Christopher Wray regarding the Bureau’s arrest of Roger Stone. “Since his appointment, I have supported Special Counsel Mueller’s ability to conduct his investigation without interference. Moreover, I have always been a strong admirer and supporter of the FBI. However, while I firmly support law enforcement taking into account threats to officer safety, flight risk, and the need to ensure evidence is preserved, I am leery that a subject of the Special Counsel’s investigation, who had retained counsel, had publicly stated that he believed that he would at some point be indicted, and was apparently willing to surrender voluntarily, was arrested in a pre-dawn raid at his home,” Graham wrote. He continued, “The American public has had enough of the media circus that surrounds the Special Counsel's investigation. Yet, the manner of this arrest appears to have only added to the spectacle. Accordingly, I write to seek justification for the tactics used and the timing of the arrest of Mr. Stone.” Full text of the letter is below and HERE.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s announcement he will sign a short-term continuing resolution (CR) to reopen the government to negotiate a deal on border security. “I hope Congress, in a bipartisan fashion, will work with the President and take advantage of this moment. “This is the last, best chance to take a major step toward fixing broken borders and a broken immigration system. “Thank you, Mr. President. Let’s make this a win-win for America!” #####
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today delivered opening remarks at the hearing to consider the nomination of William Barr to serve as the Attorney General of the United States. GRAHAM: “[Mr Barr], you’ve lived a life that I think has been honorable and noteworthy and accomplished. I want to thank you for being willing to take this task on. We’ve got a lot of problems at the Department of Justice. I think morale is low and we need to change that.” https://youtu.be/raTCdzwGWiU?t=324 GRAHAM: “As to the hopes and dreams for this committee – to get as much done as possible and to fight when we have to over things that matter to the public. Show two different views of an issue that’s important, but do it as respectfully as possible.” https://youtu.be/raTCdzwGWiU?t=54 GRAHAM: “The bottom line is we’re starting off with something that would be good for the country. We have a vacancy for the attorney general spot. We have a chance to fill that vacancy… When you look at what [Mr. Barr] has done in his life, it’s incredible. So I want to thank the President for nominating somebody who is worthy of the job, who will understand on day one what the job is about, and can right the ship over there.” https://youtu.be/raTCdzwGWiU?t=211 GRAHAM: “…a little bit about the nominee. He’s been attorney general before, from 1991 to 1993, by voice vote. Those were the days. Deputy Attorney General from 1990 to 1991, unanimous consent, without a recorded vote. Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel, [unanimous consent]. That’s pretty amazing.” https://youtu.be/raTCdzwGWiU?t=264 Click to watch Graham's opening statement
01.24.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “The way forward is clear to me: a three-week continuing resolution (CR) that includes a down payment on wall/barrier funding and priorities of Democrats for disaster relief, showing good faith from both sides. I strongly urge my Democratic colleagues to work with the White House on a three-week CR that includes a down payment on wall/barrier funding consistent with DHS priorities.” #####
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Donald Trump’s intent to nominate 51 judicial nominees. “I truly appreciate the prompt attention President Trump and his White House team have shown to judicial nominations. I also appreciate the list of 51 impressive judicial nominations to fulfill the Senate’s constitutional role in advice and consent,” Graham said. “The committee will immediately begin working on these important nominations and trying to confirm as many as possible, as soon as possible.”
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s recognition of Venezuelan National Assembly President Juan Guaido as the Interim President of Venezuela. Graham said: “By standing with the people of Venezuela, President Trump stands for freedom. “Strong American leadership is indispensable in moments like this. History will record that the Trump Administration was on the side of the people yearning to be free – not with their oppressor. “President Trump and his administration have risen to this historic moment. “Stand Firm.” ####
01.23.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on a letter from Speaker Nancy Pelosi that states she will not introduce a concurrent resolution to invite President Trump to deliver the State of the Union address in the U.S. House of Representatives. Pelosi has also revoked the initial invitation she sent on January 3rd, 2019 – almost two weeks after the partial shutdown began. “Speaker Pelosi’s decision not to invite President Trump to deliver the State of the Union address sets a new low for American politics. “The President – regardless of party – should have the opportunity to address the American people in the State of the Union address from the traditional venue of the U.S. House of Representatives. “The State of the Union is a tradition which has been carried out during times of war and peace, turmoil and tranquility. It is an important piece of our history and government. “Speaker Pelosi’s decision to ignore this long-standing American tradition is absurd, petty, and shameful. The judgement of history will not be kind.” #####
01.18.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the upcoming summit held by President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. “It is great news that there will be a second summit with President Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong Un. “President Trump deserves great credit for getting us to this point. “We have a long way to go, and I’m hopeful that the engagement started by President Trump can finally end the North Korean problem in a win-win fashion. “I appreciate the Trump Administration’s hard work. I hope the summit leads to a lasting and meaningful peace for the Korean peninsula and the world.” #####
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), along with Judiciary Committee members Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Thom Tillis (R-North Carolina), John Kennedy (R-Louisiana), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Ben Sasse (R-Nebraska), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Marsha Blackburn (R-Tennessee) and Mike Lee (R-Utah), reintroduced the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. The legislation would provide common-sense protections for unborn children at 20 weeks after fertilization, a point at which there is significant scientific evidence that abortion inflicts tremendous pain on the unborn. Graham has introduced the Pain-Capable legislation the last three Congresses. “I am proud to once again introduce the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, this time as Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee,” Graham said. “There are only seven countries that allow wholesale abortions at the 20-week period, including China and North Korea. The United States should not be in that club. I don’t believe abortion, five months into pregnancy, makes us a better nation. America is at her best when she’s standing up for the least among us and the sooner we pass this legislation into law, the better. We are on the right side of history.” The legislation is also cosponsored by U.S. Senators Marco Rubio (R-Florida), John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), Roy Blunt (R-Missouri), James Risch (R-Idaho), James Lankford (R-Oklahoma), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), John Hoeven (R-North Dakota), Mike Braun (R-Indiana), James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma), John Boozman (R-Arkansas), Deb Fischer (R-Nebraska), Kevin Cramer (R-North Dakota), Mike Rounds (R-South Dakota), Cindy Hyde-Smith (R-Mississippi), David Perdue (R-Georgia), Jerry Moran (R-Kansas), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), Roger Wicker (R-Mississippi), Todd Young (R-Indiana), Mike Enzi (R-Wyoming), Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana), Mitt Romney (R-Utah), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin), Steve Daines (R-Montana), Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Pat Roberts (R-Kansas), Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Rand Paul (R-Kentucky), Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky), Pat Toomey (R-Pennsylvania) and John Thune (R-South Dakota). Background on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act: At the age of 20 weeks post-fertilization, scientific evidence tells us an unborn child can feel pain. Anesthesia is administered directly to the unborn child in second-trimester fetal surgery. The unborn child shows physical, chemical, brain and stress responses demonstrating pain at this stage of development. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is based in science, has overwhelming public support, and is necessary to protect unborn children from painful and untimely deaths. Highlights: This legislation protects unborn babies after 20 weeks or five months, more than halfway through the pregnancy. The United States is one of only seven countries that allows on-demand abortions past 20 weeks. The other six are: North Korea, China, Vietnam, Singapore, Canada, and the Netherlands. Pain-Capable legislation has already passed in South Carolina and other states. They include Ohio, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Indiana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Idaho, Iowa, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, and Arizona. Advances in modern medicine help babies born at 20, 21 and 22 weeks post-fertilization survive outside the womb. The pain these babies feel outside the womb gives evidence to the pain their unborn counterparts feel while in utero. Ultrasounds show unborn babies at 20 weeks sucking their thumb, yawning, stretching and making faces. Summary of Provisions: The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would make it illegal for any person to perform, or attempt to perform, an abortion without first making a determination of the probable post-fertilization age of the unborn child. If the post-fertilization age of the unborn child is determined to be 20 weeks or greater, an abortion shall not be performed, unless – It is necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman; The pregnancy is a result of rape and the woman has received medical treatment or counseling at least 48 hours prior to the abortion; or if she chooses to do so, has made a report to law enforcement; or The pregnancy is a result of rape or incest against a minor and the abuse is reported to either social services or law enforcement. In the case of the exceptions – the abortion may only proceed in a manner that provides the best opportunity for the unborn child to survive unless that would pose a greater risk of death or serious bodily injury to the pregnant woman; and the abortion provider must receive informed consent from the pregnant woman, certifying that she has been provided the child’s gestational age, a description of the law, and her rights under the law. A woman on whom an abortion was performed in violation of this Act may bring a civil action against the abortion provider in court to recover damages. Abortion doctors are required to submit annual data to the National Center for Health and Statistics providing statistical information about abortions carried out after 20 weeks post-fertilization age. The criminal punishment for a violation of this Act is imprisonment of up to five years, fines, or both. The Act makes clear that a woman who receives an illegal abortion in violation of this act may not be prosecuted. #####
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the terrorist attack in Manbij, Syria. Graham said: “When it comes to Syria policy – go slow, be deliberate. “It’s heartbreaking to hear about the loss of American soldiers and innocent civilians in a cowardly attack in Manbij, Syria. God bless the brave Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of America by partnering with others in the region who reject radical ideologies. “I was in Manbij just a few months ago with Senator Shaheen meeting with Arabs, Kurds, Christians, and other groups who reject terrorism and do not want to be dominated by a foreign power. “If this does indeed turn out to be an ISIS attack, it should be a reminder of the lethality of the group – even though they have been tremendously degraded. “My fear has always been that if we repeat the same mistakes in Syria that we did in Iraq, we are going to get the same outcome. “I support President Trump’s efforts to rebalance our commitment where others do more and pay more. But it is important that the United States has leverage and a presence to protect our homeland from terrorist attacks and stand with allies and partners who push back against common enemies.” ####
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Department of Justice (DOJ) issuing an opinion restoring the long-standing interpretation of the Wire Act. DOJ’s opinion reverses the Obama Administration’s abrupt decision to expand online gambling. “I welcome the decision by the Department of Justice to reverse a misguided decision by the Obama Administration,” Graham said. “Restoring the original interpretation of the Wire Act takes great strides to protect children and society’s most vulnerable. It will also be a blow to criminal elements that tried to take advantage of the failed Obama policy.” Background on the history of the Wire Act: On December 23, 2011, the Obama-era DOJ published an opinion that reversed the long-standing interpretation that the Wire Act banned all forms of Internet gambling. DOJ found that the Wire Act only banned online sports betting. After the 2011 decision, Senators Graham and Dianne Feinstein (D-California) led the Congressional response to the Obama-era DOJ by introducing the Restoration of America’s Wire Act. DOJ reversed the 2011 decision, thereby restoring the Wire Act to its original intent by banning online gambling. #####
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned witnesses at the second day of William Barr’s nomination hearing to serve as Attorney General of the United States. GRAHAM: “I just can’t think of a better person to pick [for Attorney General] than Mr. Barr, if you’re a Republican. I don’t know who [would] do better than him in terms of experience, judgement and temperament. So if this guy doesn’t cut it, I am at a loss for who [Republicans] can pick.” https://youtu.be/6NPOo9jN3gE?t=694 GRAHAM: “…I thought [Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch] would be good stewards of the law…it never crossed my mind that I would vote against them because I have policy disagreements [with them]. If that’s going to be the new standard, none of us are going to vote for anybody on the other side.” https://youtu.be/6NPOo9jN3gE?t=346 Click to watch the full exchange
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the conclusion of the first day of the hearing on the nomination of William Barr to serve as the Attorney General of the United States. “Mr. Barr is the right guy at the right time. He’s had the job in the past and is incredibly well-qualified for the position of Attorney General. I want to congratulate President Trump on nominating someone of this caliber. “When it comes to policy you can’t expect a Republican nominee to adopt a Democratic agenda. But you can expect them to be fair arbiters of the law. I voted for Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch — not because I agreed with their political philosophy or policy positions — but because I thought they were qualified. I’m asking no more of Democrats than I asked of myself. I am hopeful Democrats will support this fine man. “I also want to thank Mr. Barr and his family. I’m grateful for him coming before the committee today and look forward to hearing from the rest of the witnesses tomorrow,” said Graham. #####
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with President Trump at the White House. “I just met with President Trump and his team. It’s clear to both of us that Democrats don’t want to make a deal and will never support border wall/barriers on President Trump’s watch, even though they did so in the past. “They hate President Trump more than they want to fix problems — even problems they acknowledged to be real and serious in the past. Democrats will do everything in their power to defeat Trump in 2020. “Mr. President, declare a national emergency now. Build a wall now.” #####
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued the following statement on Syria. “I look forward to meeting with President Erdogan in the near future to discuss common interests and security concerns regarding northeastern Syria. “There are millions of Kurds living in Turkey who are vibrant members of Turkish society, contributing to their economy, culture and democracy. But I have long contended that there are elements among the Syrian Kurds that represent a legitimate national security threat to Turkey. Turkey’s concern regarding YPG elements must be addressed in a real way to ensure that Turkey’s borders are secure and are protected from any threats. Any final disposition in Syria must address Turkey’s national security interests and concerns. “From an American point of view, we have strategic objectives that must be accomplished in northeastern Syria. The Iranians, Russians and Assad should not be allowed to be the biggest winners of our withdrawal. “The mission in Syria is not yet complete and we must continue to work with our partners and allies to ensure that ISIS is destroyed and never returns.” #####
01.11.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) today made the following statements on the passage of the Senate resolution commending the Clemson University football team for winning the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship. “The Clemson Tigers have become the gold standard for college football, both on and off the field, and Coach Swinney is the very definition of All In — with his family, his faith, his coaches, his staff, his dedication and loyalty to his current and former players,” said Senator Graham. “Clemson won decisively. They won with class. The 2018 season will be remembered as long as there is a Clemson University.” “I want to extend our congratulations to Coach Swinney, a man as sure of himself and his faith as anyone, President Jim Clements, who has truly built a world-class institution at Clemson, the entire football team, and all of Tiger Nation,” said Senator Scott. “To the hardworking men and women on the Clemson team and staff, you deserve every moment of this victory.” Full text of the resolution is below: Commending the Clemson University Tigers football team for winning the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship. Whereas, on Monday, January 7, 2019, the Clemson University Tigers football team won the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship (in this preamble referred to as the “championship game”) by defeating the University of Alabama by a score of 44 to 16 at Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara, California; Whereas the Tigers finished the championship game with 482 yards of total offense on 63 plays; Whereas the victory by the Tigers in the championship game— (1) made Clemson the first Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS)-level team to finish a season 15–0 since the University of Pennsylvania in 1897; and (2) marked the second time in 3 years that Clemson won a National Championship game; Whereas the head coach of Clemson, Dabo Swinney, has been an outstanding role model to the Clemson players and the Clemson community; Whereas Trevor Lawrence, the first true freshman starter to win a national title since 1985, gave an outstanding performance by throwing for 347 yards and 3 touchdowns; Whereas Travis Etienne had 14 carries for 86 yards including 2 rushing touchdowns and a passing touchdown; Whereas the Clemson University football team displayed outstanding dedication, teamwork, and sportsmanship throughout the 2018 collegiate football season in achieving the highest honor in college football; and Whereas the Tigers have brought pride and honor to the State of South Carolina: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) commends the Clemson University Tigers for winning the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship; (2) recognizes the on-field and off-field achievements of the players, coaches, and staff of the Clemson football team; and (3) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to— (A) the President of Clemson University, James P. Clements; and (B) the head coach of the Clemson University football team, Dabo Swinney. #####
01.10.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the government shutdown and wall/border security funding. “Speaker Pelosi’s refusal to negotiate on funding for a border wall/barrier -- even if the government were to be reopened -- virtually ends the congressional path to funding for a border wall/barrier. “It is time for President Trump to use emergency powers to fund the construction of a border wall/barrier. “I hope it works.” #####
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON – United States Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been elected to serve as the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Established in 1816 as one of the original standing committees in the United States Senate, the Senate Judiciary Committee is considered one of the most influential committees in the Congress. The committee has broad legislative jurisdiction and has assured its primary role as a forum for the public discussion of social and constitutional issues. The committee is also responsible for oversight of key activities of the executive branch, and is responsible for the confirmation process of all judicial nominations for the federal judiciary, including nominees to the Supreme Court. In addition to serving as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, Graham will also serve on the Appropriations, Foreign Relations, and Budget committees. “I’m honored to be selected as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee,” said Graham. “I will do my best to continue down the path charted by Senator Grassley of having a fair and vibrant committee process. The confirmation of conservative judges will be one of my top priorities as Chairman. “In addition, I will also continue to seek common ground on the major issue facings our nation. I look forward to working with Senator Feinstein and all my colleagues to make this new Congress successful.” #####
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke on the Senate floor to congratulate the Clemson Tigers on winning the 2019 College Football Playoff National Championship. GRAHAM: “The Clemson Tigers have become the gold standard for college football, both on and off the field.” https://youtu.be/-a3mx-J7EeU?t=29 GRAHAM: “Coach Swinney is the very definition of All In — with his family, his faith, his coaches, his staff, his dedication and loyalty to his current and former players.” https://youtu.be/-a3mx-J7EeU?t=43 GRAHAM: “They [Clemson] won decisively. They won with class. The 2018 season will be remembered as long as there is a Clemson University.” https://youtu.be/-a3mx-J7EeU?t=116 #####
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Egyptian courts acquitting 40 NGO workers who had been accused of operating non-governmental organizations (NGO) without the necessary approval. In 2011, offices of numerous NGOs were ordered to close and the workers were sentenced to jail terms ranging from one to five years. The United States strongly opposed the original actions taken by the courts. Graham said: “I’m very pleased to hear the Egyptian courts have now acquitted employees of IRI, NDI, Freedom House, and other NGOs of criminal misconduct in Egypt. This is welcome news and a very big step in the right direction in repairing a fractured relationship between the United States and Egypt. “The accusations have always been baseless. The members of these organizations have served their nation and the people of Egypt honorably in advance of democracy, the rule of law, and human rights - areas in which much work remains. “I appreciate the assistance Egypt has provided in the fight against ISIS and their working relationship with our allies in Israel. “I hope we will build on this decision by the Egyptian courts and regain momentum when it comes to the US-Egypt relationship which is strategically important to both the region and the world.” BACKGROUND: https://www.middleeastmonitor.com/20181220-under-us-pressure-egypt-court-acquits-40-ngo-workers/
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news President Trump may order a withdrawal of 3,000 American troops from Afghanistan. “I have just returned from Afghanistan and can say – without hesitation – ISIS-K remains a direct threat to our homeland and they would dramatically benefit from a reduced American troop presence. “Our Afghan partners are incapable of subduing the threat posed by ISIS-K alone. In addition, our intelligence capability and military might cannot be replaced by any other regional ally when it comes to subduing ISIS-K in Afghanistan or Pakistan. “Like in Syria, troop withdrawal should be based on conditions on the ground. “The conditions in Afghanistan – at the present moment – make American troop withdrawals a high risk strategy. If we continue on our present course we are setting in motion the loss of all our gains and paving the way toward a second 9/11.” ###### BACKGROUND: https://www.wsj.com/articles/trump-administration-is-considering-substantial-afghan-troop-drawdown-11545341452?mod=hp_lead_pos1 https://www.foxnews.com/politics/trump-plans-significant-drawdown-of-us-troops-in-afghanistan-senior-official-says
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the impending retirement of General James Mattis as Secretary of Defense. “It is with great sadness that I was informed of the resignation of General Mattis. He is one of the great military leaders in American history. He should be proud of the service he has rendered to President Trump and our nation. “General Mattis is a combination of intellect and integrity. He has been in the fight against radical Islam for decades and provided sound and ethical military advice to President Trump. “He is a role model for the concept of Duty, Honor, Country.” #####
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Jeanne Shaheen (D-New Hampshire), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Angus King (I-Maine), Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) and Marco Rubio (R-Florida) sent a letter to President Donald Trump expressing their concern regarding the consideration to withdraw U.S. forces from Syria. “If you decide to follow through with your decision to pull our troops out of Syria, any remnants of ISIS in Syria will surely renew and embolden their efforts in the region. However, ISIS is not the only threat. The brutal dictatorship of Bashar al Assad continues to weigh heavily upon the Syrian people, and we fear that a withdrawal of our troops may embolden Bashar al Assad to take further actions to solidify his power,” the Senators wrote. They continued, “The withdrawal of American presence from Syria also bolsters two other adversaries to the United States, Iran and Russia. As you are aware, both Iran and Russia have used the Syrian conflict as a stage to magnify their influence in the region. Any sign of weakness perceived by Iran or Russia will only result in their increased presence in the region and a decrease in the trust of our partners and allies. Your administration must not repeat the same mistakes that previous administrations have made and concede to these bad actors.” The full text of the letter is below. December 19, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump The President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write today to express our concern regarding your Administration’s consideration to withdraw U.S. forces from Syria. We believe that such action at this time is a premature and costly mistake that not only threatens the safety and security of the United States, but also emboldens ISIS, Bashar al Assad, Iran, and Russia. The United States currently retains a small and limited military presence within Syria. The approximately 2,000 American troops stationed in Syria serve as a vital shield against ISIS cells operating within Northeast Syria. While you believe the threat of ISIS has dissipated, the conditions on the ground paint a very different picture. In addition, our troops provide critical support for our Kurdish partners, who have been crucial in the fight against ISIS. If our Kurdish partners in the region lose the support of the United States, we run the risk of a resurgence of ISIS and the possible capitulation or all out destruction of Kurdish resistance in the region. Furthermore, hundreds of foreign fighters being held in captivity by our Kurdish partners are at risk of being released or worse if our support is withdrawn. If you decide to follow through with your decision to pull our troops out of Syria, any remnants of ISIS in Syria will surely renew and embolden their efforts in the region. However, ISIS is not the only threat. The brutal dictatorship of Bashar al Assad continues to weigh heavily upon the Syrian people, and we fear that a withdrawal of our troops may embolden Bashar al Assad to take further actions to solidify his power. The withdrawal of American presence from Syria also bolsters two other adversaries to the United States, Iran and Russia. As you are aware, both Iran and Russia have used the Syrian conflict as a stage to magnify their influence in the region. Any sign of weakness perceived by Iran or Russia will only result in their increased presence in the region and a decrease in the trust of our partners and allies. Your administration must not repeat the same mistakes that previous administrations have made and concede to these bad actors. In conclusion, we encourage you to reconsider your proposal to withdraw U.S. forces from Syria to ensure that our nation’s strategic interests are secured. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham Jeanne Shaheen United States Senator United States Senator Joni Ernst Angus S. King Jr. United States Senator United States Senator Tom Cotton Marco Rubio United States Senator United States Senator ####
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Senate passage of First Step Act. The vote was 87-12. The legislation will now be sent to the House of Representatives, where it is expected to pass and then will go to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. Graham said: “I strongly support the First Step Act and I am disappointed my travels to Afghanistan – where I met with American troops and commanders as well as Afghan leaders – precluded me from returning in time to vote for its passage. “Passage of the First Step Act is a major accomplishment and long overdue. This bill does two important things: lowers the recidivism rate and reduces sentences for nonviolent offenders which allows us to direct resources towards truly dangerous criminals. “For a nonviolent offender to be released early, the offender has to acquire a necessary skill-set to be more productive once released. The bill also gives more latitude to judges to make sure lengthy sentences are not mandated for multiple nonviolent offenses. This has produced a great burden on the system and has taken a lot of people out of the workforce that could be productive. “Finally, I very much appreciate Jared Kushner’s tenacity when it comes to making sure the criminal justice reform legislation becomes law. I also appreciate President Trump’s bold and energetic leadership on this issue. It was also an honor working side by side with Senator Tim Scott on another important reform. In addition, I appreciate the leadership of Chairman Grassley and others who made this historic legislation possible. I was glad to play a part in its creation.” #####
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news reports the United States is preparing to withdraw its small, limited military presence from Syria. “If these media reports are true, it will be an Obama-like mistake made by the Trump Administration. While American patience in confronting radical Islam may wane, the radical Islamists’ passion to kill Americans and our allies never wavers. “After visiting Syria earlier this year, it is abundantly clear the approximately 2,000 American troops stationed there are vital to our national security interests. “An American withdrawal at this time would be a big win for ISIS, Iran, Bashar al Assad of Syria, and Russia. I fear it will lead to devastating consequences for our nation, the region, and throughout the world. “Today, we have a small American footprint and limited presence in northeastern Syria in support of our Kurdish allies who were indispensable in the fight against ISIS. Staying there is an insurance policy against the reemergence of ISIS and destruction of our Kurdish allies who fought so bravely against them. “An American withdrawal will put the Kurds and all those who came to America’s aid in destroying ISIS at tremendous risk. It will make it more difficult to recruit future partners willing to confront radical Islam. It will also be seen by Iran and other bad actors as a sign of American weakness in the efforts to contain Iranian expansion.” #####
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott’s (R-South Carolina) legislation – The South Carolina Peanut Parity Act – passed the Senate and the House of Representatives as a part of the conference report to the 2018 Farm Bill. This provision will put an individual from South Carolina on the Peanut Standards Board at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The legislation will now go to President Trump’s desk where it is expected to be signed into law. Graham and Scott, along with South Carolina Congressman Joe Wilson, noted that even though South Carolina has the fourth largest peanut industry in the country, the state is not represented on the Peanut Standards Board. The board, created by the 2002 farm bill, advises USDA on proper standards for peanut quality and handling. “As growers of our state’s official snack, South Carolina peanut farmers deserve a say in matters that affect their livelihood. I’m proud to work with my colleagues, Senator Scott and Congressman Wilson, on this important bill to ensure South Carolina’s peanut farmers get adequate representation at USDA,” said Graham. “I appreciate and look forward to President Trump signing this provision into law.” “Ensuring South Carolina peanut farmers have a seat at the table is incredibly important,” Scott said. “I want to thank Senator Graham for working together on this important bill, and I look forward to sharing some South Carolina boiled peanuts with our colleagues soon!” #####
12.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on the nomination of General Mark Milley to be the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and thanked the outgoing Chairman General Joseph Dunford for his dedicated service to our nation. “The selection of General Mark Milley to serve as the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is a great choice. “I’ve known General Milley for years and met him on numerous occasions in Afghanistan and Iraq. He’s a battle-tested commander and Pentagon reformer who will be a worthy successor to General Dunford. “As to General Dunford, he served Presidents Obama and Trump with distinction and has much to be proud of during his tenure as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs. He’s one of the most dedicated officers I’ve ever known. I wish him well.” ####
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on President Donald Trump nominating William Barr to serve as the next U.S. Attorney General. “President Trump made an outstanding decision in nominating William Barr to serve as the next Attorney General. “Mr. Barr is highly capable, highly respected and will provide new and much-needed leadership for the Department of Justice. “Having previously served as Attorney General under President George H.W. Bush, Mr. Barr is a known quantity, a man of the highest integrity and character, and has an impeccable reputation. He will provide a strong and steady hand to the fine men and women at the Department of Justice. “I will do everything in my power to push him through the Senate Judiciary Committee and onto the floor of the Senate for eventual confirmation as soon as possible. “Well done Mr. President.” ####
12.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on President Donald Trump nominating Heather Nauert to serve as the next U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. “I’ve known Heather for many years. She is a fine and capable person. She was an effective spokeswoman for the Department of State and enjoys the confidence of Secretary Pompeo and President Trump. “I’m sure she will perform well at her hearing and look forward to supporting her nomination.” ####
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) today announced a $25 million Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to support projects at the Inland Port Greer (IPG) and the Port of Charleston. Project Two of the Upstate Express Corridor Project would increase capacity at the IPG to ensure sufficient staging, container lift and storage space for manufacturers and freight shippers. The project also extends Norfolk Southern’s Carlisle Passing Siding to accommodate longer trains travelling between the IPG and the Port of Charleston. Graham and Scott noted these service improvements would advance the region’s manufacturing industry by increasing shipping capacity and efficiency. “Today’s announcement is great news for manufacturers who use the Inland Port in Greer and the Port of Charleston,” said Graham. “I was proud to join my South Carolina colleagues in support of this important project which will benefit manufacturers across our entire state. I’m also pleased Secretary Chao has recognized the growth opportunities available in the South Carolina port system. This investment will pay dividends for American manufacturing in the years to come.” “It is a great day in South Carolina as we’ve secured a big win from Secretary Chao and the Department of Transportation (DOT). We have a diverse economy in the state and need to ensure that every mode of transportation of our goods is top-notch. I thank Secretary Chao and the DOT for approving this application, one that is such an essential part of the Palmetto State’s economy,” said Scott. Graham and Scott, along with U.S. Representatives James Clyburn (D-South Carolina), Joe Wilson (R-South Carolina), Mark Sanford (R-South Carolina), Jeff Duncan (R-South Carolina), Trey Gowdy (R-South Carolina), Tom Rice (R-South Carolina) and Ralph Norman (R-South Carolina) sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao in August urging support for this project. #####
12.05.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Dianne Feinstein (D-California), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), Ed Markey (D-Massachusetts), Todd Young (R-Indiana) and Chris Coons (D-Delaware) today introduced a Senate Resolution that holds Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia Mohammed bin Salman accountable for contributing to the humanitarian crisis in Yemen, the blockade of Qatar, the jailing of political dissidents within Saudi Arabia, the use of force to intimidate rivals, and the abhorrent and unjustified killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. “I believe it’s vitally important to U.S. national security interests to make a definitive statement about the brutal murder of an American resident – Mr. Khashoggi – who has three American citizen children,” said Senator Graham. “This resolution – without equivocation – definitively states that the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia was complicit in the murder of Mr. Khashoggi and has been a wrecking ball to the region jeopardizing our national security interests on multiple fronts. It will be up to Saudi Arabia as to how to deal with this matter. But it is up to the United States to firmly stand for who we are and what we believe.” “The world is entitled to know all the perpetrators of this terrible murder, and they must be held accountable. President Trump’s willingness to ignore the crown prince’s role in the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi is unacceptable,” said Senator Feinstein. “Our resolution corrects that by condemning the crown prince’s actions and stating he should be held responsible for this murder, the blockade in Qatar and for human rights abuses in the Saudi Arabia and Yemen.” “Our values as Americans must be central to our foreign policy. Saudi Arabia is an important ally but not an ally at any cost. There is no doubt that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman knew about the murder of Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, condoned it, and at worst was actually involved in directing it,” Rubio said. “The U.S. must demand accountability and press for the release of all Saudi political prisoners, including blogger Raif Badawi and women’s rights activists.” “Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman is not the reformer he pretends to be. He is a thug and under his rule, the Kingdom has cracked down forcefully on dissent, taken aggressive actions against neighbors like Lebanon and Qatar that have destabilized the region, created an unprecedented humanitarian crisis through its brutal war in Yemen, and decided it may commit extraterritorial killings with impunity,” said Senator Markey. “Saudi Arabia is heading in the wrong direction, and the benefits of our relationship with the Kingdom are quickly being outweighed by Mohammad bin Salman’s blatant disregard for fundamental freedoms and international norms. It is time to re-think our relationship with Saudi Arabia, and President Trump must make publicly clear that the United States will not tolerate this behavior by anyone, even our so-called friends. This resolution would ensure that the United States Senate is on the record as condemning the Crown Prince’s murdering of an American journalist and that we will not tolerate the actions of a regime that violates basic human rights and freedoms.” “The failure over the last year and half to utilize all available U.S. leverage with respect to Saudi Arabia’s actions in Yemen has left the Crown Prince with the mistaken impression that the United States will turn a blind eye to his increasingly brazen atrocities. Those who suggest we must sacrifice our principles for security will have neither,” said Senator Young. “The United States Senate should speak in a clear, bipartisan voice to say that we will not tolerate the kinds of egregious human rights violations we’ve seen from Saudi leadership and, in particular, from Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman,” said Senator Coons. “The world has long looked to the United States to lead on human rights, and this is an important moment to show that we will not compromise our core values.” The Graham-Feinstein-Rubio-Markey-Young-Coons Resolution: condemns in the strongest possible terms the murder of Jamal Khashoggi; finds that as Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman was in control of the security forces at the time of Jamal Khashoggi’s murder; based on evidence and analysis made available to this institution, the Senate has a high level of confidence that Mohammed bin Salman was complicit in the murder of Jamal Khashoggi; urges the United States Government and the international community to hold all parties, including Mohammed bin Salman, involved in the murder of Jamal Khashoggi accountable; calls on the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to negotiate directly with representatives of the Houthi movement in order to end the war in Yemen, agree on a political resolution, reverse the humanitarian crisis, and refocus efforts on defeating al Qaeda and ISIS in Yemen; calls on the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to negotiate a political solution to its dispute with Qatar expeditiously and in a way that restores diplomatic relations with Qatar; and urges the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to immediately release Saudi blogger Raif Badawi, the Saudi women’s rights activists, and other detained political prisoners. Full text of the resolution is here. #####
12.01.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on the passing of the 41st President of the United States, George H.W. Bush. “Today, my thoughts are with the Bush family who are some of the most incredible people I have ever met. I am thinking of them during this time of sadness and celebration of a life well-lived. “With the passing of President George H.W. Bush, a lifetime of extraordinary and honorable service – from the cockpit to the White House – has come to an end. When it’s all said and done, President Bush was one of the best examples of goodness, decency and bravery to ever achieve the Presidency. “He is a great role model for all of us still in the fight and those who aspire to service in the future. “A truly great American.” ####
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on the state of immigration reform in light of members of migrant caravans attempting to rush the southern border. “I have worked for over a decade to fix our nation’s broken immigration system. “We will not have the necessary ‘buy-in’ from the American people for a solution dealing with illegal immigrants already in the United States if we cannot convince the public we have the ability to stop future waves of illegal immigration. “The current chaos at our southern border must be dealt with properly or we will never find a solution to our broken immigration system. “Everyone who supports dealing fairly with illegal immigrants already in the United States should make it clear the lawless behavior occurring at the southern border crossing will not be tolerated. “Americans want an immigration policy which we control, not one where illegal immigrants control us. “We are a nation of immigrants. We are also a kind and generous people. But Americans will not be played for fools. “It’s simple: We as Americans – have the right to decide who gets to come into our country, not immigrants seeking to force their way in. “I have worked with many Democrats who have compassion for illegal immigrants already in the United States. In order to solve this problem, now is the time for Democrats to be clear that they too oppose the lawless behavior from illegal immigrants at the border. They can also offer their strong support for additional efforts to secure our border today and in the future. “Showing the American people we will take a tough line on future waves of illegal immigration helps build the necessary political support to deal fairly with the problems created in the past. “It remains the pathway forward and Americans are watching how we handle this current test.” ####
11.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Saudi Arabia. “One thing I learned during the Obama years is that when you look the other way regarding problems in the Middle East, it seldom works out. “Time and time again President Obama chose to look the other way as Iran took increasingly provocative actions. Each time it led to even worse Iranian behavior and created even larger problems for the future. “Likewise, it is not in our national security interests to look the other way when it comes to the brutal murder of Mr. Jamal Khashoggi. “I firmly believe there will be strong bipartisan support for serious sanctions against Saudi Arabia, including appropriate members of the royal family, for this barbaric act which defied all civilized norms. While Saudi Arabia is a strategic ally, the behavior of the Crown Prince – in multiple ways – has shown disrespect for the relationship and made him, in my view, beyond toxic. “I fully realize we have to deal with bad actors and imperfect situations on the international stage. However, when we lose our moral voice, we lose our strongest asset.” ######
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements. On Chairman Grassley Moving from the Judiciary Committee to the Finance Committee: “I very much appreciate Senator Grassley’s leadership of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He chaired the committee with a steady hand, sense of fundamental fairness, and resolve. His leadership serves as a model to us all. “Senator Grassley has much to be proud of during his time as Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. His work, along with his Democrat and Republican colleagues, accomplished so much for the American people.” On Possibility of Serving as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee: “If I am fortunate enough to be selected by my colleagues to serve as Chairman, I will push for the appointment and Senate confirmation of highly qualified conservative judges to the federal bench and aggressive oversight of the Department of Justice and FBI. “Finally, I will continue to seek common sense, bipartisan solutions to major issues facing our nation.” #####
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Donald Trump announcing support for the First Step Act, a bipartisan sentencing and prison reform bill. “I am very excited to have President Trump’s support for the First Step Act. “This bipartisan legislation gives nonviolent offenders an earned second chance and should dramatically reduce the recidivism rate by focusing on skills necessary for people to stay out of prison. “We can and should pass this bill before Congress adjourns for the year.” ##### Background on the First Step Act: The First Step Act will reform America’s prisons to make our communities safer and our justice system fairer. Nearly all incarcerated Americans will one day leave prison and the goal of this legislation is to make sure they do not return. The First Step Act uses a targeted approach toward a specific population of Federal prisoners who will eventually be released. The First Step Act will promote prisoner participation in vocational training, educational coursework, or faith-based programs, and in turn help them successfully reenter society. Prisoners will be able to earn credits that reduce the amount of time spent in prison. As a result, prisoners will gain job skills, drug treatment, and education that prepare them to reenter American communities as productive members of society. The legislation also seeks to place Federal inmates closer to their communities in order to facilitate family visitation. This is a true first step in creating a fairer justice system by reforming mandatory minimums, which have created racially disparate outcomes and increased overcrowding and costs. The legislation reduces the enhanced penalties for certain non-violent repeat drug offenders and eliminates the three-strike mandatory life provision. Certain nonviolent offenders will be able to petition courts for a review of their sentence, which can be reduced only after the judge reviews all circumstances, including public safety, criminal history, and the nature of the offense. Taking steps to better prepare inmates for reentry into our society and communities will help reduce recidivism. We can improve society for all by better equipping prisoners being released for successful reintegration into society. Today one-in-three American adults has some type of criminal record and more than two million Americans are in prisons, including 181,000 in Federal prison. More than 95% of these prisoners will eventually leave prison and face the challenge of restarting their lives. Our prisons can do much more to prepare inmates for release, addressing the fact that roughly 77% of state inmates and 38% of federal inmates are rearrested within five years of release. The First Step Act enjoys widespread support across the political spectrum. Many of the reforms included in this legislation passed the House in an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 360–59 in May 2018. Republicans and Democrats in the Senate worked with the White House to craft a bipartisan sentencing reform compromise, which has been added to the legislation. So far, seven major police organizations, over 2,700 faith and evangelical leaders, and hundreds of conservative organizations and leaders support this legislation.
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the MOX program at Savannah River Site. “The decision to terminate the MOX program is a colossal mistake. There is no viable alternative. “From the beginning we have warned the Department of Energy’s dilute and dispose plan in New Mexico is not feasible and simply will not work. It’s yet another half-baked idea from DOE that simply has no chance of success. The MOX program has not been adequately funded by the federal government in years. “Stopping a program that is seventy percent complete and replacing it with a new half-baked program that won’t work is yet another example of what is wrong with Washington. “I view DOE’s shortsighted decision as the federal government breaking its commitment to South Carolina.” BACKGROUND: In 2000 the United States and the Russian Federation each agreed to dispose of 34 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium. This was enough plutonium to make several thousand nuclear warheads. The Russian Federation chose to burn their plutonium in a fast reactor to dispose of the surplus material. The United States chose to use MOX at Savannah River Site. Construction of the MOX facility began in 2007. The Obama Administration first proposed cancelling the program. The Trump Administration has continued to follow the Obama Administration’s lead in regards to the MOX program. #####
11.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the investiture ceremony for Justice Brett Kavanaugh at the Supreme Court of the United States and his meeting in the Oval Office with President Trump. Investiture of Justice Brett Kavanaugh: “I very much enjoyed being with the President and First Lady at the investiture of Justice Brett Kavanaugh. “The ceremony was a poignant reminder of the majesty of the Court and the wisdom of the American Constitution which created a series of checks and balances on all branches of government. “I’m very proud of Justice Kavanaugh and know he will be a great Supreme Court Justice for years to come.” Meeting with President Trump in the Oval Office: “I had a good discussion with the President about the opportunities and challenges that come from divided government. I found him to be very upbeat and ready to find common ground with the House and Senate in order to make America safer and more prosperous. “We discussed Afghanistan and how, in my opinion, his new strategy -- which reversed Obama’s policy of fighting with one hand behind our back and changed the rules of engagement against the Taliban and radical Islamists -- is paying dividends. “The most recent Afghan elections are a testament to the sacrifice of the American and the Afghan people who are trying to change Afghanistan for the better. While Afghanistan remains a source of frustration to some, we have come so far from the days of Taliban control. Now, because of our success, we have only a small fraction of U.S. forces remaining that were present during the surge peak in 2011. “In the last two years we have lost nineteen brave Americans in combat. Recently, the Afghan Security Forces have suffered between 30-40 deaths per day, and countless more wounded. “Our hope has always been that we will provide help and the Afghans will do most of the fighting. That long-held hope is now coming true. Ensuring Afghanistan remains free from radical Islamic domination remains a high priority for the United States. It is important for all Americans to never forget the 9/11 attacks on our homeland came about from the safe havens offered in Afghanistan to Al-Qaeda. Equally important to understand is forward-deployed troops in places like Afghanistan act as a virtual wall against radical Islamists who would regenerate and attack our homeland if given the opportunity. “President Trump and his team should be complimented for this new direction and new success in Afghanistan. “Finally, I talked with the President about a permanent replacement for Attorney General. I’m confident the White House is looking for someone who the President and country can have confidence in, and be confirmed by the Senate. In my role as a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I look forward to meeting with acting Attorney General Whitaker soon and have confidence he will do a professional job in this position.” #####
11.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the midterm elections and how it was impacted by the Supreme Court nomination of Justice Brett Kavanaugh. “What has been referred to as the ‘Kavanaugh Effect’ should actually be called ‘Kavanaugh’s Revenge.’ “Virtually all Senate Democrats running in Trump states who voted against Brett Kavanaugh were defeated. Their constituents held them responsible for being part of a despicable smear campaign orchestrated by the left. “These Democrats showed more allegiance to the left than to their constituents who support qualified, conservative judges like Brett Kavanaugh. Their votes against Kavanaugh crystallized how out of touch they had become on major issues in the eyes of their constituents who supported President Trump. “Liberal Democratic Senators and activists efforts to destroy Brett Kavanaugh ended up destroying Red State Democrats. Hopefully this resounding rejection of the Kavanaugh smear campaign by voters will make it less likely that this will occur again in the future. “Finally, the lone Democrat who voted for Brett Kavanaugh – West Virginia’s Joe Manchin – won reelection by three points. I’m confident that if he had voted no, he would have lost his race too.” #####
11.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the conduct of the White House press corps after today’s presidential news conference at the White House. “It’s apparent to me the White House press corps lives in a bubble and the way they are conducting themselves today will do nothing to improve their standing with the American people. “Certain members of the press cannot stand the fact that President Trump and Republicans defied expectations in the midterm elections – actually growing our Senate majority. “The mainstream press are not – in my opinion – ‘Enemies of the People’ but rather ‘Allies of the Democratic Party’ playing an activist role in support of their agenda.” #####
11.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the resignation of Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “Jeff Sessions served our nation well and honorably as Attorney General. He has dedicated his whole life to conservatism and upholding the Rule of Law. “I look forward to working with President Trump to find a confirmable, worthy successor so that we can start a new chapter at the Department of Justice and deal with both the opportunities and challenges our nation faces. “As to me, I will be part of a larger Republican majority in the United States Senate -- working with the President and my Republican and Democratic colleagues -- to make America safer and more prosperous.” #####
10.30.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports that President Trump plans to issue an executive order eliminating birthright citizenship for children born to illegal immigrants on American soil. “Finally, a president willing to take on this absurd policy of birthright citizenship. “I’ve always supported comprehensive immigration reform – and at the same time – the elimination of birthright citizenship. “The United States is one of two developed countries in the world who grant citizenship based on location of birth. This policy is a magnet for illegal immigration, out of the mainstream of the developed world, and needs to come to an end. “In addition, I plan to introduce legislation along the same lines as the proposed executive order from President Trump.” #####
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON – In a letter to President Donald J. Trump, U.S. Senators Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), chairman and ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), chairman and ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, today triggered an investigation and Global Magnitsky sanctions determination regarding the disappearance of Jamal Khashoggi, a Saudi journalist and columnist for The Washington Post. Khashoggi has not been heard from since he entered a Saudi consulate in Istanbul last Tuesday afternoon. The letter was also signed by Senators Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Chris Murphy (D-Conn.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Tim Kaine (D-Va.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Todd Young (R-Ind.), Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), Ron Johnson (R-Wis.), Chris Coons (D-Del.), Jim Risch (R-Idaho), and Tom Udall (D-N.M). Text of the letter is included below. Dear Mr. President: The Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act requires the President, upon receipt of a request from the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, to determine whether a foreign person is responsible for an extrajudicial killing, torture, or other gross violation of internationally recognized human rights against an individual exercising freedom of expression, and report to the Committee within 120 days with a determination and a decision on the imposition of sanctions on that foreign person or persons. The recent disappearance of Saudi journalist and Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi suggests that he could be a victim of a gross violation of internationally recognized human rights, which includes “torture or cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment, prolonged detention without charges and trial, causing the disappearance of persons by the abduction and clandestine detention of those persons, and other flagrant denial of the right to life, liberty, or the security of person.” Therefore, we request that you make a determination on the imposition of sanctions pursuant to the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act with respect to any foreign person responsible for such a violation related to Mr. Khashoggi. Our expectation is that in making your determination you will consider any relevant information, including with respect to the highest ranking officials in the Government of Saudi Arabia. BACKGROUND Under the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act, the president, upon receipt of a letter from the chairman and ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, must make a determination and is authorized to impose sanctions with respect to a foreign person responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights violations against individuals who seek to obtain, exercise, defend, or promote human rights and freedoms, including freedom of expression. ###
10.09.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement on U.S. Ambassador to United Nations Nikki Haley. “Ambassador Haley has done an outstanding job as United States Ambassador to the United Nations and showed a level of effectiveness rarely seen by someone in this position. “She is a clear, concise voice for American leadership, American values, and has been a true agent of reform when it came to the United Nations. “I know all South Carolinians are proud of the service she rendered to our nation and the Trump Administration. “Nikki Haley has a very bright future and will be a key player in both the future of the Republican Party and our nation as a whole for years to come.” #####
10.05.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement applauding Senator Susan Collins (R-Maine) for announcing her intention to vote in favor of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court. Graham was on the Senate floor and listened to Senator Collins’ address. “Senator Collins’ floor speech in a word – wow. It will go down in history as one of the most thoughtful, reasoned explanations of support of a Supreme Court nominee. Unlike most Kavanaugh critics, she actually took the time to do her job. She read his opinions, she had in-depth interviews, she listened to the accusers, and she applied a process of the rule of law versus the rule of the mob. “She rose to the occasion. “If we had legitimized the coordinated efforts at character assassination, it would have destroyed the Judiciary over time and eroded constitutional principles that protect every American. “Senator Collins’ speech was one of the most consequential speeches in the history of the United States and did a lot to protect the independence of the judiciary. It should be required viewing in every civics class in America. “The country needed what Susan Collins provided today – reason, facts, and an understanding of who we are as a nation. She rejected winning at all costs and the politics of personal destruction. “Finally, Senator Collins eloquently expressed the plight of abused women, sexual assault victims and the hell they go through. Senator Collins, in my view, also understood that the allegations have to be viewed through a logical, constitutionally-sound process, and that unfairly destroying Judge Kavanaugh’s life under these circumstances would not advance any just cause.” #####
10.02.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement on the state of play regarding Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court. “I can only imagine how awful this entire process has been for Judge Kavanaugh and his family. “I truly admire Judge Kavanaugh’s determination – along with that of his family – to not quit in the face of the outrageous accusations that have been leveled against him. “I would again ask every senator who believes Judge Kavanaugh is a highly qualified, capable nominee to the Supreme Court to not quit on him. It is incredibly important we do not legitimize these smears and attempts at character assassination for the good of the Court, the future of the Senate, and the character of our nation. “I believe Judge Kavanaugh will be confirmed to the Supreme Court very soon. However, if his nomination were to fall short, I would encourage President Trump to re-nominate Judge Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. It would – in effect – be appealing the Senate’s verdict directly to the American people. “The midterm elections are only 35 days away and a new group of senators may view Judge Kavanaugh’s nomination very differently after hearing from the voters in their states.” #####
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement. “I have repeatedly said Judge Brett Kavanaugh is one of the most highly qualified people who has ever been nominated to serve on the Supreme Court. I doubt any person nominated to the Court has ever been looked at as closely as Judge Kavanaugh. “I personally know all I need to know about this fine man who is incredibly capable and qualified. I am ready to vote on his nomination now. “Having said that, I respect my colleagues who have requested the supplemental FBI investigation, which will be limited in scope and time. It can be done quickly and then we will be able to move forward to an up-or-down vote in the Senate next week. “I’ve never felt better about the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh than I do right now.” #####
09.27.2018	WASHINGTON - Below is a transcript of U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham's (R-South Carolina) remarks at the Senate Judiciary Committee's hearing on Judge Brett Kavanaugh's nomination to the Supreme Court on Thursday, September 27, 2018. TRANSCRIPT: GRAHAM: Are you aware that at 9:23 on the night of July the 9th, the day you were nominated to the Supreme Court by President Trump, Senator Schumer said 23-minutes after your nomination, "I will oppose Judge Kavanaugh's nomination with everything I have, I have (sic) a bipartisan -- and I hope a bipartisan majority will do the same. The stakes are simply too high for anything less." Well, if you weren't aware of it, you are now. Did you meet with Senator Dianne Feinstein on August 20th? KAVANAUGH: I did meet with Senator Feinstein... GRAHAM: Did you know that her staff had already recommended a lawyer to Dr. Ford? KAVANAUGH: ... I did not know that. GRAHAM: Did you know that her and her staff had this -- allegations for over 20 days? KAVANAUGH: I did not know that at the time. GRAHAM: If you wanted a FBI investigation, you could have come to us. What you want to do is destroy this guy's life, hold this seat open and hope you win in 2020. You've said that, not me. You've got nothing to apologize for. When you see Sotomayor and Kagan, tell them that Lindsey said hello because I voted for them. I would never do to them what you've done to this guy. This is the most unethical sham since I've been in politics. And if you really wanted to know the truth, you sure as hell wouldn't have done what you've done to this guy. Are you a gang rapist? KAVANAUGH: No. GRAHAM: I cannot imagine what you and your family have gone through. Boy, you all want power. God, I hope you never get it. I hope the American people can see through this sham. That you knew about it and you held it. You had no intention of protecting Dr. Ford; none. She's as much of a victim as you are. God, I hate to say it because these have been my friends. But let me tell you, when it comes to this, you're looking for a fair process? You came to the wrong town at the wrong time, my friend. Do you consider this a job interview? KAVANAUGH: If (ph) the advice and consent role is like a job interview. GRAHAM: Do you consider that you've been through a job interview? KAVANAUGH: I've been through a process of advice and consent under the Constitution, which... GRAHAM: Would you say you've been through hell? KAVANAUGH: I -- I've been through hell and then some. GRAHAM: This is not a job interview. KAVANAUGH: Yes. GRAHAM: This is hell. KAVANAUGH: This -- this... GRAHAM: This is going to destroy the ability of good people to come forward because of this crap. Your high school yearbook -- you have interacted with professional women all your life, not one accusation. You're supposed to be Bill Cosby when you're a junior and senior in high school. And all of a sudden, you got over it. It's been my understanding that if you drug women and rape them for two years in high school, you probably don't stop. Here's my understanding, if you lived a good life people would recognize it, like the American Bar Association has, the gold standard. His integrity is absolutely unquestioned. He is the very circumspect in his personal conduct, harbors no biases or prejudices. He's entirely ethical, is a really decent person. He is warm, friendly, unassuming. He's the nicest person -- the ABA. The one thing I can tell you should be proud of -- Ashley, you should be proud of this -- that you raised a daughter who had the good character to pray for Dr. Ford. To my Republican colleagues, if you vote no, you're legitimizing the most despicable thing I have seen in my time in politics. You want this seat? I hope you never get it. I hope you're on the Supreme Court, that's exactly where you should be. And I hope that the American people will see through this charade. And I wish you well. And I intend to vote for you and I hope everybody who's fair-minded will.
09.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement. “Judge Kavanaugh has just emphatically denied the recent allegation being levied by Michael Avenatti and his client. He says he does not know the woman in question and emphatically denies the accusations. I would remind everyone that dozens of women who knew Judge Kavanaugh during the time period in question completely vouch for his good character. “Mr. Avenatti first tweeted Sunday night that he had new and explosive information, and he was immediately contacted by the Senate Judiciary Committee to provide information. He has chosen to release these claims the day before Mrs. Ford’s hearing and two days before a vote. “From my view, just when you thought it couldn’t get any worse, it just did. The lawyer to porn stars has just taken this debacle to an even lower level. I hope people will be highly suspicious of this allegation presented by Michael Avenatti. “I have a difficult time believing any person would continue to go to – according to the affidavit – ten parties over a two-year period where women were routinely gang raped and not report it. I also find it curious these charges were not brought forward until 2018, two days before a confirmation vote. “Why would any reasonable person continue to hang around people like this? Why would any person continue to put their friends and themselves in danger? Isn’t there some duty to warn others? “This is outrageous, internally inconsistent, and I hope the U.S. Senate will see this for the smear campaign that it is. “It is outrageous to suggest that Brett Kavanaugh at any time in his life behaved this way. His life is inconsistent with any of these allegations. All women who have worked with and for Brett Kavanaugh when he was in a position of power have nothing but glowing things to say about the way he has conducted himself. “This is a decent man who has lived an honorable life and is being smeared by the likes of Michael Avenatti. “I very much believe in allowing people to be heard. But I am not going to be played, and I’m not going to have my intelligence insulted by the Michael Avenattis of the world. I will not be a participant in wholesale character assassination that defies credibility. “If Republicans bail out on this good man because of the smears and character assassination perpetrated by Michael Avenatti, we deserve our fate.” #####
09.25.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s address before the United Nationals General Assembly. “President Trump gave a well-delivered and well-thought out speech before the United Nations General Assembly today. The President let the entire world know that America believes in democracy and freedom for all – with respect to differences in culture and aspirations that come from self-governance. “The President is right to insist that the U.S. invest more into U.N. programs that produce more results and invest less into programs that have failed. In addition, I strongly agree that sanctions on North Korea should remain in place until denuclearization is achieved, and that the Iranian regime represents a cancer in the Middle East. “Further, I appreciate President Trump making clear that we will continue to work with our allies and have the courage of our convictions to go our own way in protecting our national security interests. Nowhere is that policy more clear than in withdrawing from the failing Iranian nuclear deal and addressing the threat posed by the Iranian regime. “Finally, I agree with President Trump that a strong, vibrant America – which is respectful of other nations and the differences in culture – is mankind’s best hope for freedom and prosperity.” #####
09.24.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement. “When it comes to stopping President Donald Trump and his agenda, there seem to be no boundaries. “Whether it’s coaching witnesses or reporting thinly-sourced stories without proper verification, everything is fair game and falls into the category of – ‘The Ends Justify the Means.’ “What we are witnessing is the total collapse of the traditional confirmation process for a Supreme Court nominee. It is being replaced by a game of delay, deception, and wholesale character assassination. “Clearly when it comes to President Trump, elections – in the eyes of Democrats – have no consequences. “In my view, the process needs to move forward with a hearing Thursday, and vote in committee soon thereafter.” #####
09.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after surveying Hurricane Florence damage and response in South Carolina and North Carolina with President Trump. “I truly appreciate President Trump for taking the time to visit South Carolina and North Carolina today. “More importantly, I appreciate all the help and assistance he and his team have provided before, during, and after Hurricane Florence. The Trump Administration has had an ‘All-Hands-on-Deck’ approach to this since Day 1. For that, I am truly grateful. “In addition, I continue to be thoroughly impressed by the response from Team South Carolina. Led by Governor McMaster, Team South Carolina has been working morning, noon and night to help those who have been devastated by this storm. Their commitment to our state is inspiring and we owe them a tremendous debt of gratitude. “My prayers remain with those who are and continue to suffer from the impacts of Hurricane Florence. They have my commitment that I will work with President Trump and our congressional delegation to ensure the needs of our state are met as we recover and rebuild from the impact of this terrible storm.” #####
09.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. “Requiring an FBI investigation of a 36 year old allegation (without specific references to time or location) before Professor Ford will appear before the Judiciary Committee is not about finding the truth, but delaying the process until after the midterm elections. “It is imperative the Judiciary Committee move forward on the Kavanaugh nomination and a committee vote be taken as soon as possible.” #####
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) joined Sean Hannity to discuss Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s nomination to the Supreme Court. GRAHAM: “If Ms. Ford really did not want to come forward, never intended to come forward, never planned to come forward, why did she pay for a polygraph [test] in August? And why did she hire a lawyer in August if she never intended to do what she’s doing?” https://youtu.be/YafIB3j9Ybc?t=55s GRAHAM: “It’s a [35] year old allegation. It’s a serious allegation. Everybody needs to be heard, but also people need to be able to defend themselves. I’m going to look at what [Ms. Ford] said about Brett Kavanaugh in high school and compare that to everything else I know about Brett Kavanaugh, including his denial. And I’ll make a decision.” https://youtu.be/YafIB3j9Ybc?t=34s GRAHAM: “All I can say is that I’ve been a prosecutor, a judge and a defense counsel all of my life before I got into politics. This case could not go before a criminal court because it’s too old. No lawyer would bring it as a civil suit because it’s just too hard to prove. The question for the Senate, is there really enough evidence here given the nature of the allegation, how old it is, and the uncertain nature of it, to deny this man who’s lived an incredible life, a promotion to the Supreme Court? And if it was this bad, why did the [Democrats not] challenge Judge Kavanaugh when he was sitting right there in front of them?” https://youtu.be/YafIB3j9Ybc?t=1m31s ####
09.18.2018	WASHINGTON – Legislation led by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) – the Synthetic Abuse and Labeling of Toxic Substances (SALTS) Act – passed the Senate. The legislation was introduced by Graham along with Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-Minnesota). The SALTS Act would make it easier to prosecute the sale and distribution of synthetic – also known as analogue – drugs, which are very similar to illegal drugs. Current law makes it difficult to prosecute the sale and distribution of new synthetic drugs as analogues because they are often labeled as “not intended for human consumption” despite their well-known use as recreational drugs with dangerous side effects. The SALTS Act would make it easier for prosecutors to prove that synthetic drugs are intended for human consumption. “I’m very pleased to have worked with Senator Klobuchar on this important bill and I want to thank my colleagues for passing it through the Senate,” said Senator Graham. “Synthetic analogues are deadly, and we must continue to work together to ensure that these synthetic drugs are taken out of our communities.” The SALTS Act would: Amend the Controlled Substances Act to allow for consideration of a number of factors when determining whether a controlled substance analogue was intended for human consumption, including the marketing, advertising, and labeling of a substance, and its known use. Establish that simply because a substance was not marketed, advertised, or labeled for human consumption that does not mean sufficient notice was given that the substance was not intended for human consumption. In addition to the SALTS Act, Graham is also a cosponsor of legislation that would strengthen penalties for fentanyl distribution and trafficking to ensure they better reflect the serious nature of the crime. According to an August 2018 report released by South Carolina’s Department of Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Services, in South Carolina nearly 400 people died from an overdose involving fentanyl in 2017. Graham chaired a Congressional hearing this year, entitled “Defeating Fentanyl: Addressing the Deadliest Drugs Fueling the Opioid Crisis,” featuring testimony from experts across the country, including South Carolina law enforcement. ####
09.16.2018	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Judge Brett Kavanaugh for the Supreme Court. Statement from U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham "I agree with the concerns expressed in the Judiciary Committee's Statement about the substance and process regarding the allegations in the latest claim against Judge Kavanaugh. "However, if Ms. Ford wishes to provide information to the committee, I would gladly listen to what she has to say and compare that against all other information we have received about Judge Kavanaugh. "If the committee is to hear from Ms. Ford, it should be done immediately so the process can continue as scheduled." ### Statement from the Senate Judiciary Committee "It’s disturbing that these uncorroborated allegations from more than 35 years ago, during high school, would surface on the eve of a committee vote after Democrats sat on them since July. If Ranking Member Feinstein and other Committee Democrats took this claim seriously, they should have brought it to the full Committee’s attention much earlier. Instead, they said nothing during two joint phone calls with the nominee in August, four days of lengthy public hearings, a closed session for all committee members with the nominee where sensitive topics can be discussed and in more than 1,300 written questions. Sixty-five senators met individually with Judge Kavanaugh during a nearly two-month period before the hearing began, yet Feinstein didn’t share this with her colleagues ahead of many of those discussions. "It raises a lot of questions about Democrats’ tactics and motives to bring this to the rest of the committee’s attention only now rather than during these many steps along the way. Senator Feinstein should publicly release the letter she received back in July so that everyone can know what she’s known for weeks. "Judge Kavanaugh’s background has been thoroughly vetted by the FBI on six different occasions throughout his decades of public service, and no such allegation ever surfaced. Furthermore Judge Kavanaugh and others alleged to have been involved have unequivocally denied these claims from their high school days. The Committee has received letter after letter from those who’ve known judge Kavanaugh personally and professionally, including 65 women who’ve known him since high school, speaking to his impeccable character and respect for others, especially women." ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON – This afternoon before heading back to South Carolina, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) met with the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Brock Long at FEMA’s National Response Coordination Center in Washington, D.C. as Hurricane Florence moves towards landfall. In particular, Graham and Administrator Long discussed safety precautions for South Carolina and preparation for post-storm recovery efforts.
09.12.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement after a phone call with President Donald Trump regarding Hurricane Florence preparations. “I just received a call from President Trump about Hurricane Florence. “He asked if there was anything his Administration needed to do that was not currently being done for the people of South Carolina. “I told him we appreciate all that is being done, and the Trump Administration could not have been more responsive. I know Governor McMaster shares this view. “The President reinforced this is a dangerous storm, and everyone in evacuation areas should follow the advice of Governor McMaster to evacuate while there is still time. “I told the President that South Carolinians appreciate his friendship, dedication, and concern.” #####
09.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement. “Like President Bush and so many others, every day for the last 17 years has felt like the immediate aftermath of the attacks for me. “The horrific events are seared in my memory. Those who have fallen, and their families, remain in my prayers. And those who are still in the fight to prevent another 9/11 have my full attention, and gratitude. “Today, let us all rededicate ourselves to protecting our nation and standing behind those who are on the front lines in what has been called ‘America’s Longest War’. “Seventeen years may have passed, but we must never, ever forget the horrors of September 11, and we must continue to protect ourselves so that it can never happen again.” #####
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the approach of Hurricane Florence and efforts being undertaken in South Carolina to prepare for landfall. “I support Governor McMaster’s decision to order a coastal evacuation and the reversal of lanes beginning Tuesday morning. “At this time, it’s not whether Hurricane Florence is going to do damage to South Carolina – but where and how much? “I think it is much better to be prudent and cautious than to risk the lives and well-being of both our citizens and first responders. “I stand ready to help Governor McMaster and officials across South Carolina in any way possible as we prepare for this very powerful storm.” ####
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports that Syrian dictator Bashar al Assad plans to carry out a chemical attack in Idlib province. “I hope that the Trump Administration will not sit on the sidelines and watch the wholesale massacre of innocent men, women and children in Idlib. When it comes to Syria, we either act now or pay a heavy price later. “To sit on the sidelines and not rally the world to the cause of Idlib would be a major foreign policy mistake. “The world has the ability to push back against this impending slaughter – the only question is, does the world have the will? With American leadership we can stop this ongoing humanitarian disaster. “Bashar al Assad is slaughtering hundreds of thousands of his own people in concert with the Russians and the Iranians to maintain power in the region. Assad by any definition is a war criminal and must be held accountable for his atrocities. “On President Obama’s watch, Assad, Russia, and Iran engaged in war crimes and completely disrupted the Mid-East order. I pray that President Trump will not allow the same.” ##### Background: The Wall Street Journal U.S. Says Syria Plans Gas Attack in Rebel Stronghold
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to President Obama’s address. “The more former President Obama speaks about the ‘good ol years’ of his presidency, the more likely President Trump is to get re-elected. “In fact, the best explanation of President Trump’s victory are the ‘results’ of the Obama Presidency! “The Obama years were dominated by higher taxes, slower growth, big government, a broken military, and a pathetically weak foreign policy.” #####
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Judge Brett Kavanaugh during the second day of Supreme Court hearings. GRAHAM: “So describe the difference between Brett Kavanaugh the man and Brett Kavanaugh the judge.” KAVANAUGH: “Well, as a man I’m trying to do what I can in community service, as a dad, as a coach, as a volunteer, as a teacher, as a husband and serving meals to the homeless. The one thing, Senator, you know we’re all God’s children, we’re all equal… I just bring that into the judging, I think I judge based on the law. How does that [volunteering] affect me as a judge? I think, first of all, just standing in the shoes of others. We could all be that homeless person. We could all be that kid who needs a more structured educational environment.” https://youtu.be/4uJXFgL-wa0?t=4m23s GRAHAM: “If you don’t mind… what did you tell your children yesterday about the hearing?” KAVANAUGH: “… I’ll tell [you] what they told me. They gave me a big hug and said ‘good job Daddy.’” https://youtu.be/4uJXFgL-wa0?t=19m48s Judge Brett Kavanaugh was nominated to the Supreme Court by President Donald Trump on July 9, 2018 – Graham’s birthday – at 9:00 pm: GRAHAM: “By 9:23 [Senator] Chuck Schumer says, ‘I will oppose Judge Kavanaugh.’ “By 9:25 Senator [Kamala] Harris, ‘Trump’s Supreme Court justice nominee Judge Kavanaugh represents a direct and fundamental threat to the rights and health care of hundreds of millions of Americans. I will oppose his nomination.’ [Senator] Elizabeth Warren at 9:55, ‘Brett Kavanaugh’s record as a judge and a lawyer is clearly hostile to health care for millions…opposed to the CFPB…..corporate accountability…thinks President Trump is above the law.’ On and on and on. [House Minority Leader] Nancy Pelosi at 10:11. [Senator] Bernie Sanders at 10:18, ‘If Brett Kavanaugh is confirmed to the Supreme Court it will have profoundly negative effect on workers’ rights, women’s rights, and voting rights for decades to come.’ All I can say, within an hour and 18 minutes of your nomination you became the biggest threat to democracy in the eyes of some of the most partisan people in the country…” https://youtu.be/4uJXFgL-wa0?t=18m16s
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement on former Senator Jon Kyl (R-Arizona) being appointed to Senator John McCain’s (R-Arizona) seat through at least the remainder of the 115th Congress. “I’m very pleased to hear that Jon Kyl has been appointed as John McCain’s successor for at least the remainder of the 115th Congress. For decades, John McCain and Jon Kyl were a terrific Senate duo for the people of Arizona and the country as a whole. “Jon Kyl is a worthy replacement. Over his many years of public service, he has established himself as a solid conservative who will do his best to solve hard problems and he will always have the back of the men and women in uniform – much like his dear friend, John McCain.” Background: Governor Ducey Appoints Senator Jon Kyl #####
09.04.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made his opening statement on the first day of Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court hearing. GRAHAM: “The [Democrats’] whole argument is you can be a conservative Republican president, but you have to nominate a liberal to be fair to the country. That’s absurd.” https://youtu.be/qe-79YXAefY?t=45s GRAHAM on the Democrats’ false outrage: “This is shaping up to be the hypocrisy hearing.” https://youtu.be/qe-79YXAefY?t=1m5s GRAHAM: “The antidote to our problems in this country when it comes to judges and politics is not to deny you [Kavanaugh] a place on the Supreme Court. This is exactly where you need to be. This is exactly the time you need to be there.” https://youtu.be/qe-79YXAefY?t=9m43s GRAHAM: “To my friends on the other side, you can’t lose the election and pick judges. If you want to pick judges, you better win.” https://youtu.be/qe-79YXAefY?t=10m22s
08.25.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement. “America and Freedom have lost one of her greatest champions - and I’ve lost one of my dearest friends and mentor. “I will need some time to absorb this, but I want Cindy —and the entire McCain family — to know they are in my prayers.”
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “I just want to acknowledge the continuing and abiding love, care, and dedication that Cindy McCain and the family are providing John. “Cindy remains steadfast and is traveling every step of the way on this difficult journey with John. The love provided by Meghan and the McCain children to their father has been comforting to witness. The entire McCain clan is doing exactly what the McCains have done through generations — rise to the meet the challenge. “In addition, John’s deeply loyal staff and devoted friends are pouring their hearts out and doing everything they can to make this burden bearable. John’s medical care providers represent the best of their profession. “Above all else, I know John wants his family, friends and staff to understand how much he appreciates their love, care, and kindness.” ####
08.24.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) voted in favor of the appropriations package which funds the Department of Defense, the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Education, and related agencies. It was passed by a vote of 85-7. “I’m very pleased that the Senate has approved this appropriations package that increases defense funding and continues to repair the damage caused by deep defense cuts. “This legislation increases military pay, readiness, and provides new equipment to help the warfighter. This appropriations package also includes increased funding for the National Institutes of Health – a terrific organization for public health. “With the passage of nine out of the twelve appropriations bills by the end of August, we have made significant progress funding the federal government before October – and it’s the first time we have hit this goal since 1999.” ####
08.22.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news reports that Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-New York) wants to delay Judge Brett Kavanaugh’s Supreme Court confirmation hearings. “I strongly oppose any postponement of the Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Judge Kavanaugh. “Senator Schumer may believe that the Michael Cohen and Paul Manafort cases invalidate the election – I do not.” #### Background: Associated Press: Schumer wants to delay Kavanaugh confirmation
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today chaired a hearing in the Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism of the Senate Judiciary Committee, titled “Cyber Threats to our Nation’s Critical Infrastructure.” GRAHAM: “Mr. President… our nation is under attack. To members of Congress, our nation is under attack. Not just by Russia, by other outside influences. They’re not knocking buildings down. They’re not killing people. But they’re trying to destroy our democracy.” https://youtu.be/HmL4mMeIeYc?t=33s GRAHAM: “America is under cyber-attack. We’re beginning to act, but not quick enough and not forcefully enough.” https://youtu.be/HmL4mMeIeYc?t=1m59s
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement. “The American legal system is working its will in both the Paul Manafort and Michael Cohen cases. “Thus far, there have yet to be any charges or convictions for colluding with the Russian government by any member of the Trump campaign in the 2016 election. “It’s important to let this process continue without interference. “I hope Mr. Mueller can conclude his investigation sooner rather than later for the benefit of the nation.” ####
08.17.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, sent a letter to Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Christopher Wray regarding mounting evidence of political bias against the Trump Campaign during the 2016 election cycle. Graham wrote, “Although I appreciate the FBI’s diligence in identifying the staffer with potential ties to the Chinese government and providing Senator Feinstein with a defensive briefing, I am deeply troubled that the Trump Campaign was not afforded the same treatment when the FBI began to suspect that campaign staffers George Papadopoulos, Carter Page, Michael Flynn, and Paul Manafort had improper ties to the Russian government. It appears that rather than provide then-candidate Donald Trump or Trump Campaign officials with a defensive briefing to inform them of the FBI's concerns, the Bureau opted to use a confidential informant and a dossier funded by the Democratic National Committee to launch an unprecedented counterintelligence investigation into the Trump Campaign.” He continued, “It is paramount that political considerations never drive the FBI's decision about whether to provide a politician or a campaign – particularly a potential President of the United States – a defensive briefing regarding potential espionage threats.” The full text of the letter is below. August 16, 2018 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Christopher Wray Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20535 Dear Director Wray: Reports have recently emerged that several years ago, a staffer in Senator Dianne Feinstein's California office was investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) for allegedly acting as a Chinese spy. Senator Feinstein stated, "The FBI told me 5 years ago it had concerns that China was seeking to recruit an administrative member of my [California] staff...."[1] She stated that the FBI "reviewed the matter" and "shared its concerns" with her, and she took appropriate action.[2] Although I appreciate the FBI’s diligence in identifying the staffer with potential ties to the Chinese government and providing Senator Feinstein with a defensive briefing, I am deeply troubled that the Trump Campaign was not afforded the same treatment when the FBI began to suspect that campaign staffers George Papadopoulos, Carter Page, Michael Flynn, and Paul Manafort had improper ties to the Russian government. It appears that rather than provide then-candidate Donald Trump or Trump Campaign officials with a defensive briefing to inform them of the FBI's concerns, the Bureau opted to use a confidential informant and a dossier funded by the Democratic National Committee to launch an unprecedented counterintelligence investigation into the Trump Campaign. It is paramount that political considerations never drive the FBI's decision about whether to provide a politician or a campaign – particularly a potential President of the United States – a defensive briefing regarding potential espionage threats. Accordingly, please answer the following questions: For the last ten years, what were the FBI's protocols for briefing politicians and campaigns about potential espionage threats? Specifically, why did the Bureau decide to brief Senator Feinstein about a threat from a staffer tied to the Chinese government, but fail to do the same for the Trump campaign? Upon developing concerns that Trump Campaign staffers George Papadopoulos, Carter Page, Michael Flynn, and Paul Manafort had improper ties to the Russian government, what defensive briefings did the FBI provide to then-candidate Trump or the Trump Campaign? What additional steps did the FBI take to inform then-candidate Trump or the Trump Campaign of the potential threat? Given the continuing efforts by Russia and other bad actors to influence American elections, what policies does the FBI have in place to warn current and future candidates of foreign efforts and attempts to infiltrate their campaigns? Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham United States Senator ##### [1] Dianne Feinstein, Twitter (August 4, 2018, 4:05 PM), https://twitter.com/SenFeinstein/status/ I025820020390207495. 2 Brooke Singman, FBI's Handling of Alleged Feinstein Spy Spurs Claims of Double Standard with Trump Campaign, FOX NEWS, August 7, 2018, available at http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2018/08/07/fbis-handling­alleged-feinstein-spy-spurs-claims-double-standard-with-trump-campaign.html. [1] Dianne Feinstein, Twitter (August 4, 2018, 4:05 PM), https://twitter.com/SenFeinstein/status/ I025820020390207495. [2] Brooke Singman, FBJ's Handling of Alleged Feinstein Spy Spurs Claims of Double Standard with Trump Campaign, FOX NEWS, August 7, 2018, available at http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2018/08/07/fbis-handling­alleged-feinstein-spy-spurs-claims-double-standard-with-trump-campaign.html.
08.16.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today delivered remarks as the full Senate considered the nominations of two South Carolinians, U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina Marvin Quattlebaum and Deputy Criminal Chief of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of South Carolina Jay Richardson, to serve as circuit judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. After Graham’s floor speech, Quattlebaum was confirmed by a bipartisan vote of 62-28. Richardson was also confirmed by a bipartisan vote of 81-8. GRAHAM: “I’ve known Marvin [Quattlebaum] for well over 20 years. He’s one of the most capable lawyers I’ve ever met. He’s got a great reputation as a District Court Judge. I want to thank President Trump for nominating him. I want to thank my Senate colleagues for moving his nomination forward. He’ll be a great addition to the Fourth Circuit.” https://youtu.be/b9X_2ae6jRA?t=16s GRAHAM: “Jay [Richardson] is one of the great legal minds of our time. And I think he’s going to be a great addition to the Fourth Circuit. He prosecuted the Dylann Roof case – the man who killed the nine parishioners at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, and I would recommend that you take the time to listen to his arguments about that case if you ever get a chance. He was very eloquent.” https://youtu.be/b9X_2ae6jRA?t=59s GRAHAM: “Both these fine men come from South Carolina and I would urge my colleagues to vote affirmative when that time comes.” https://youtu.be/b9X_2ae6jRA?t=1m23s
08.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on protests in Iran. “While Europe may not hear the Iranian people’s cries for a better life, President Trump and many of us in Congress certainly do. “It is shameful and disgraceful that European nations insist on doing business with the murderous regime of the Ayatollah and continue to ignore the pleas of the Iranian people. When it comes to confronting evil there appears to be an ‘appeasement’ gene in European politics which -- throughout history -- has led to the deaths of tens of millions people. I urge European leaders to get behind President Trump’s efforts to economically isolate the Ayatollah and stand firmly with the Iranian people to once and for all end this murderous regime. “To make Iran great again, dump the Ayatollah.” ##### BACKGROUND: Fox News: Iran crowds reportedly chant 'death to the dictator!' as US sanctions increase economic unrest HAARETZ (Israel): Iranians Chant 'Death to the Dictator' as U.S. Sanctions Take Aim at Already Weak Economy
08.02.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Cory Gardner (R-CO), Ben Cardin (D-MD), John McCain (R-AZ) and Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.) introduced the Defending American Security from Kremlin Aggression Act of 2018, comprehensive legislation that will increase economic, political, and diplomatic pressure on the Russian Federation in response to Russia’s continued interference in our elections, malign influence in Syria, aggression in Crimea, and other activities. “The current sanctions regime has failed to deter Russia from meddling in the upcoming 2018 midterm elections,” said Senator Graham. “Our goal is to change the status quo and impose crushing sanctions and other measures against Putin’s Russia until he ceases and desists meddling in the US electoral process, halts cyber-attacks on US infrastructure, removes Russia from Ukraine, and ceases efforts to create chaos in Syria. The sanctions and other measures contained in this bill are the most hard-hitting ever imposed – and a direct result of Putin’s continued desire to undermine American democracy. I strongly believe that DNI Coats’ assessment – that the warning lights are blinking red when it comes to Russian meddling in the 2018 election – is accurate. These sanctions and other measures are designed to respond in the strongest possible fashion.” “Vladimir Putin continues to pose a growing threat to our country and allies. While Congress overwhelmingly passed a strong set of countermeasures last year, unfortunately, the Administration has not fully complied with that legislation. This bill is the next step in tightening the screws on the Kremlin and will bring to bear the full condemnation of the United States Congress so that Putin finally understands that the U.S. will not tolerate his behavior any longer,” said Senator Menendez. “The Kremlin continues to attack our democracy, support a war criminal in Syria and violate Ukraine’s sovereignty. With the passage of this legislation, Congress will once again act to establish a clear U.S. policy to hold Russia accountable with one clear message: Kremlin aggression will be met with consequences that will shake Putin’s regime to its foundation.” “The United States must continue to take strong actions against Vladimir Putin’s Russia for their global violations of international law and repeated attempts to undermine U.S. democratic institutions,” said Senator Gardner. “I fully support this bipartisan measure that will impose further economic sanctions against the Kremlin and also includes my language requiring the State Department to determine whether Russia merits the designation of a State Sponsor of Terror, along with Kremlin allies Iran and Syria that are already designated. Unless Russia fundamentally changes its behavior, we must not repeat the mistakes of past Administrations of trying to normalize relations with a nation that continues to pose a serious threat to the United States and our allies.” “It is once again up to Congress to strengthen America’s resolve against Vladimir Putin’s pattern of corroding democratic institutions and values around the world, a direct and growing threat to U.S. national security,” said Senator Cardin, a senior member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and one of the co-authors and lead negotiators of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). “Importantly, a number of the recommendations from the report on Russian interference I commissioned six months ago are included in this legislation. I’m pleased to partner with my bipartisan colleagues to build on CAATSA and further protect ourselves and our allies from a Kremlin that shows no sign of abiding by or respecting international norms.” “For nearly two years, our nation’s top intelligence officials have repeatedly warned that the Kremlin is continuing its efforts to target our elections and sow chaos among our citizens,” said Senator McCain. “Until Putin pays a serious price for his actions, these attacks on our democracy will only grow. This bill would build on the strongest sanctions ever imposed on the Putin regime for its assault on democratic institutions, violation of international treaties, and siege on open societies through cyberattacks and misinformation campaigns. Moreover, this legislation would modernize our diplomatic tools and secure our critical infrastructure to better deter and defend against Putin’s aggression. We must confront this challenge — not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans. Because ultimately, Putin’s true aim is to undermine all of us — our country, our freedom, and all that America stands for.” “We must stand arm-in-arm with our allies against the Kremlin’s hybrid attacks on the U.S. and democracies across the world,” said Senator Shaheen. “This bipartisan legislation sends a strong message of unity and deterrence against the Kremlin, while closing security gaps that leave our nation and its citizens vulnerable. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the Senate to advance this bill and harden our defenses against malign foreign influence.” Key elements of the legislation include: A strong statement of support for NATO and a requirement for two-thirds of the United States Senate to vote to leave NATO Provisions expediting the transfer of excess defense articles to NATO countries to reduce some NATO countries’ dependence on Russian military equipment. The establishment of an Office of Cyberspace and the Digital Economy within the Department of State. This office will lead diplomatic efforts relating to international cybersecurity, Internet access, Internet freedom, the digital economy, cybercrime, deterrence and responses to cyber threats. Provisions aimed to pressure the Russian government to halt its obstruction of international efforts to investigate chemical weapons attacks as well as punish the Russian government for chemical weapons production and use. Making interfering in our elections a ground of inadmissibility under immigration law The International Cybercrime Prevention Act which would give prosecutors the ability to shut down botnets and other digital infrastructure that can be used for a wide range of illegal activity; create a new criminal violation for individuals who have knowingly targeted critical infrastructure, including dams, power plants, hospitals, and election infrastructure; and prohibit cybercriminals from selling access to botnets to carry out cyber-attacks The Defending the Integrity of Voting Systems Act which would allow the Department of Justice to pursue federal charges for the hacking of any voting system that is used in a federal election New sanctions on political figures, oligarchs, and family members and other persons that facilitate illicit and corrupt activities, directly or indirectly, on behalf of Vladimir Putin Sanction on transactions related to investment in energy projects supported by Russia state-owned or parastatal entities A prohibition on and sanctions with respect to transactions relating to new sovereign debt of the Russian Federation Sectoral sanctions on any person in the Russian Federation that has the capacity or ability to support or facilitate malicious cyber activities A requirement for the Secretary of State to submit a determination of whether the Russian Federation meets the criteria for designation as a state sponsor of terrorism. A prohibition on licenses for United States persons to engage in activities relating to certain projects to produce oil in the Russian Federation A requirement for domestic title insurance companies to report information on the beneficial owners of entities that purchase residential real estate in high-value transactions An extension on the cap of Russian uranium imports Reinforcement for the State Department Office of Sanctions Coordination A report on the net worth and assets of Vladimir Putin The creation of a National Fusion Center to Respond to Hybrid Threats. The aim of this center is to better prepare and respond to Russian disinformation and other emerging threats emanating from the Russian Federation. A reauthorization of the Countering Russia Influence Fund #####
08.01.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in favor of the final version of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19 NDAA), which included several priorities for South Carolina and the rest of the nation. The bill will now head to President Trump’s desk to be signed into law. “The fact that this bill includes $716 billion in funding for our national defense is a testament to Chairman McCain’s commitment to serving the American people and protecting the homeland. John McCain is synonymous with reforming the Pentagon and supporting the American troops. The legislation we just passed makes important improvements in both of these values long championed by Chairman McCain,” said Graham. “I truly appreciate his leadership, as well as Senator Jim Inhofe, Ranking Member Jack Reed, members of the conference committee and all of their capable staff for getting this important legislation swiftly approved by the committee and the full Senate.” “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I understand that the first and most important dollars our nation spends each year are for our national security,” said Graham. “We must ensure our men and women have the best tools, training and equipment to carry out their vital mission to protect our nation.” “Finally, South Carolina has long played an important role in the protection of our nation,” continued Graham. “I’m proud to have worked on these priorities for our national defense and our state. It’s important South Carolina remain the tip of the spear when it comes to meeting the needs of the military and our men and women in uniform.” Highlights of Graham provisions included in the final version of the FY19 NDAA: Authorizes five South Carolina Military Construction projects. A new MQ-9 Reaper Operations facility at Shaw Air Force Base A basic training barracks complex at Fort Jackson to support 1,200 trainees Improvements and modernization to training ranges at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island A cryogenics facility and a new hazardous waste/recycling facility at Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Beaufort Advocates for South Carolina. Includes $220 million to continue construction at the MOX Facility at Savannah River Site Fully authorizes continued production rate of Meals Ready-to-Eat (MREs) – hundreds of thousands are manufactured in South Carolina – vital for our troops serving in combat Encourages the efficient and economical operation of Working Capital Fund activities like SPAWAR, Charleston Fully authorizes the President’s Request for the T-X program in South Carolina’s Upstate – a key aspect of the Air Force’s mission to develop a new training jet – which could add hundreds of jobs to the Palmetto State Authorizes $529 million to procure a critical type of field artillery, Paladin Integrated Management set, supported by BAE Systems in Aiken Includes an additional $5 million for procuring the M240 medium machine gun, supported by FN in Columbia Adds six AH-64E Apaches for the National Guard to begin addressing critical attack helicopter shortfalls Gives Troops a Much-Deserved Pay Raise. Authorizes a 2.6 percent pay raise for members of the Armed Forces ####
07.31.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is a cosponsor of a Senate Resolution (S. Res. 572) that denounces calls to abolish U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) and expresses support for the officers and employees who carry out ICE’s mission. “I’m proud to be a cosponsor of this important resolution,” said Graham. “Hyper-partisan calls to abolish ICE are delusional at best. We are fortunate to have hardworking ICE officers who put their life on the line to protect Americans. The security of our country depends on brave men and women like these and we owe them a great deal.” The Senate resolution: Expresses continued support for all officers and employees of ICE who carry out the important mission of the agency; Denounces calls for the complete abolishment of ICE; and Supports the efforts of officers and employees of the U.S. Armed Forces and federal and state law enforcement agencies who bring law and order to the borders of the United States. #####
07.31.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island), Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, along with Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Connecticut), introduced two bipartisan bills that would improve cybercrime prevention and bolster the United States’ election infrastructure. As recommended in the Attorney General’s recent Cyber Digital Task Force report, the International Cybercrime Prevention Act – led by Senator Graham – would give federal prosecutors new tools to fight cybercrime, including the ability to shut down networks of compromised computers – known as “botnets” – that Russia and other hostile actors use to spread disinformation and create chaos, including large scale cyber-attacks. The Defending the Integrity of Voting Systems Act – led by Senator Blumenthal – would make it a federal crime to hack any voting systems used in a federal election. The bipartisan group of Senators is also working to provide clarity on the application of federal law to individuals with insider access to electronic systems, as well as the valuable contributions of security researchers to cyber security. “Russian interference in the 2016 election exposed just a small piece of our adversaries’ cyber capabilities,” said Graham. “Seeking to undermine American democracy and our standing on the world stage, hostile nations like Russia, Iran, China, and North Korea work every day to develop new cyber weapons to deploy against the United States. Both pieces of legislation provide the Department of Justice urgently needed tools to shut down the digital infrastructure used by cybercriminals and to prosecute those who hack our critical infrastructure. Congress should act quickly to pass these bills to help protect us from Russian interference in the 2018 election, and from the broad array of other state-enabled cyber threats.” “Our intelligence and law enforcement officials warn us that the likes of Vladimir Putin are renewing their attacks on our democracy. We face cyber threats to our elections, financial institutions, businesses and critical infrastructure, as well as to citizens’ personal information. It’s more important than ever to help law enforcement harden our cyber defenses,” said Whitehouse, the author of bipartisan cyber recommendations for the Trump administration, and comprehensive cyber legislation in previous congresses. “I am happy to join Senators Graham and Blumenthal to introduce these bills.” “The disclosure of renewed cyber attacks against Congress and disinformation campaigns demonstrates that Russia is undeterred in its ambition to undermine America’s democracy and critical infrastructure—and that we are woefully unprepared to prevent or stop them. The Defending the Integrity of Voting Systems Act and the International Cybercrime Prevention Act will better equip the Department of Justice to fight back against hackers and foreign governments that intend to interfere with our democracy and disrupt our economy,” said Blumenthal. “With the midterm elections in less than 100 days, Congress cannot afford to wait. Our bills show that securing the nation’s elections and cyber infrastructure can be a bipartisan cause, and I urge my colleagues to quickly pass this long overdue measure.” The International Cybercrime Prevention Act would: Give prosecutors the ability to shut down botnets and other digital infrastructure that can be used for a wide range of illegal activity Create a new criminal violation for individuals who have knowingly targeted critical infrastructure, including dams, power plants, hospitals, and election infrastructure Prohibit cybercriminals from selling access to botnets to carry out cyber-attacks The Defending the Integrity of Voting Systems Act would: Allow the Department of Justice to pursue federal charges for the hacking of any voting system that is used in a federal election #####
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today delivered remarks at the Christians United For Israel (CUFI) Summit 2018. Senator Graham is a steadfast supporter of Israel and authored the Taylor Force Act, which became law earlier this year and ended American taxpayer dollars going to the Palestinian Authority. Senator Graham was joined on stage by Taylor Force’s parents, Stuart and Robbi, who live in South Carolina. “Senator Graham is a champion in the Senate for Israel and CUFI’s legislative priorities. We thank him for his participation in the Summit today, and know he will continue to be a strong voice for Israel and her people. Senator Graham is a long-standing friend of CUFI, and the Summit, and I know our relationship will only continue to grow as the years progress,” said Pastor John Hagee, Founder and National Chairman of Christians United for Israel. On the Taylor Force Act becoming law and next steps: GRAHAM: “This young man’s [Taylor Force’s] death did more to focus on the problem [of Pay to Slay] than any single event since I’ve been up here for over 20 years.” https://youtu.be/HA95MQZrQ_w?t=4m47s GRAHAM: “The Taylor Force family took this tragedy and turned it into something positive. They met so many members of the Senate. How would you like to meet those two and tell them, ‘No I’m not going to support this legislation?’ You can’t.” https://youtu.be/HA95MQZrQ_w?t=6m GRAHAM: “Now, the Palestinians have gotten the wrong message. They’ve become very defiant in the face of the Taylor Force Act. They’ve actually increased the payments to people who engage in terrorism. So what will I do next? I’m going to introduce round two of [the Taylor Force Act] and I’ll need your help to punish the ministers who actually carry out the new Palestinian law that incentivizes more that the young people commit terrorism, not less…We’re going to consider [the ministers] agents of terrorism. We’re going to name names. And they will listen.” https://youtu.be/HA95MQZrQ_w?t=8m5s On Iran: GRAHAM: “When you [the Iranian regime] write ‘death to Israel’ on a missile, that’s pretty clear to me what you’re trying to tell the world.” https://youtu.be/HA95MQZrQ_w?t=11m35s GRAHAM: “Now we’ve got a new way of doing business. We’ve got a new sheriff in town… Donald Trump, you’ve got it right when it comes to Iran. Obama, you got it wrong. And we’re going to do things different.” https://youtu.be/HA95MQZrQ_w?t=12m4s
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Ranking Member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, today announced they are working on comprehensive legislation that will enhance sanctions pressure on Russia while bolstering the capacity of the United States government to respond. “We are fully committed to ensuring Congress maintains an active role in both confronting Russian aggression and ensuring that the Executive Branch takes the necessary steps to protect the U.S. and our allies. That is why we will be introducing comprehensive legislation in the coming days to ensure the imposition of mandatory sanctions under CAATSA, while levying additional sanctions to ensure the maximum impact on the Kremlin’s campaign against our democracy and the rules-based international order. “Just as Vladimir Putin has made clear his intention to challenge American power, influence, and security interests at home and abroad, the United States must make it abundantly clear that we will defend our nation and not waver in our rejection of his effort to erode western democracy as a strategic imperative for Russia’s future. “We hope to build momentum in the coming days and be joined by more colleagues on both sides of the aisle in support of this important effort.” The Senators’ legislation will include: Increased sanctions on the Russian energy and financial sectors Increased sanctions on Russian oligarchs and parastatal entities Sanctions on Russian sovereign debt Sectoral sanctions on cyber actors in Russia Establishment of a National Center to Respond to Russian Threats Senate approval requirement for U.S. withdrawal from NATO Bolster effort to counter Russian disinformation and hybrid threats Establishment of a sanctions coordinator office at the State Department Reporting requirements to tighten sanctions implementation under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) Authorizing assistance to bolster democratic institutions across Europe to defend against Russian interference #####
07.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “I have just been reassured unequivocally by the White House legislative team that the President’s ‘no’ response today to shouted questions was not intended to suggest that President Trump doubts the intelligence community’s assessment that Russia is continuing to attack our critical infrastructure in the 2018 elections. “I’m very pleased to hear this and I stand ready to work with the Administration to harden our electoral system against all foreign interference, including Russia. “The warnings from the intelligence community could not be more clear. Republicans and Democrats working with the President need to act quickly. “All relevant agencies should provide us their suggestions and recommendations about how to harden our 2018 election systems against foreign interference, and Congress should act quickly as time is running out regarding the 2018 elections. “I had a very good conversation today with DNI Coats who informed me that he has numerous proposals that could help secure our 2018 elections. And I told him the sooner these could be implemented, the better. I also talked with Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Dunford who said that the Department of Defense can help states in securing their election systems. “This should be a whole of government approach and bipartisan. All of us should have an interest in protecting our electoral system, which is one of the crown jewels of our democracy.” #####
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) wants Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein to provide answers on the extent to which FBI Agents Peter Strzok and Lisa Page were involved in the early stages of the Russia investigation, given the extreme bias the agents demonstrated against then-candidate, Donald Trump in the Clinton email investigation. In the letter to Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein Graham noted, “… Strzok and Page were also intimately involved in the beginnings of the Russia investigation targeting the Trump Campaign and Trump associates. In reference to the Russia investigation, the New York Times recently reported that a ‘government informant met several times with Mr. Page and Mr. Papadopolous.”1 He continued, “Please answer the following questions: Did Strzok or Page have any role in retaining or supervising the informant or directing the decision to use the informant? Did Strzok or Page have any such role as to any informant used to investigate the Trump Campaign or Trump associates? Did Strzok or Page have any role in reviewing, approving, or supplying information for the FISA warrant obtained to surveil Carter Page?” Graham concluded, “Strzok and Page both have been removed from the Russia investigation, but we still are unsure of the initial role they played in that investigation. It is important that these questions are answered.” The full text of the letter is below and attached. June 26, 2018 The Honorable Rod J. Rosenstein Deputy Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein: Last week, Department of Justice (DOJ) Inspector General Michael Horowitz testified before Congress regarding DOJ’s handling of the Clinton email investigation. The evidence contained in Mr. Horowitz’s report shows an overwhelming bias against then-candidate Donald Trump. In particular, Peter Strzok, the head agent in charge of the Clinton email investigation, and Lisa Page, a top FBI attorney, exchanged message after message showing extreme bias against Donald Trump and a willingness to use their positions at FBI to ensure that he not get elected. While I am sensitive to the idea that Congressional oversight must be tempered when it involves ongoing investigations, there comes a point when the public’s right to be informed of a corrupt investigation wins the day. I view the Clinton email investigation as corrupt, not just biased. In that regard, Strzok and Page were also intimately involved in the beginnings of the Russia investigation targeting the Trump Campaign and Trump associates. In reference to the Russia investigation, the New York Times recently reported that a “government informant met several times with Mr. Page and Mr. Papadopolous.”[1] Please answer the following questions: Did Strzok or Page have any role in retaining or supervising the informant or directing the decision to use the informant? Did Strzok or Page have any such role as to any informant used to investigate the Trump Campaign or Trump associates? Did Strzok or Page have any role in reviewing, approving, or supplying information for the FISA warrant obtained to surveil Carter Page? Strzok and Page both have been removed from the Russia investigation, but we still are unsure of the initial role they played in that investigation. It is important that these questions are answered. I look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham United States Senator #### [1] Matt Apuzzo, Adam Goldman and Nicholas Fandos, Code Name Crossfire Hurricane: The Secret Origins of the Trump Investigation, New York Times (May 16, 2018).
07.13.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said President Trump won’t repeat President Obama’s mistakes when it comes to dealing with the situation in Syria. President Trump is scheduled to meet with Russian President Putin on Monday and Syria is expected to be a topic of discussion. Graham noted several areas where he expects President Trump will take a tougher line than President Obama. President Obama’s Mistaken Belief that Withdrawing American Troops would Make America Safer: This decision, which was hailed at the time as removing the United States from the region, directly led to the rise of ISIS. As ISIS gained power – including the establishment of its self-proclaimed ‘Caliphate’ headquartered in Raqqa, Syria – it also led to ISIS-inspired attacks in the United States and Europe. President Obama Mistakenly Trusting Russia’s Putin and Syria’s Assad: The decision to charge Russia’s Putin and Syria’s Assad with the removal and destruction of chemical weapon stockpiles was considered an achievement that would keep the United States from a deeper engagement in the Syrian civil war. It would also help protect civilian populations in Syria from attacks. However, the agreement proved to be a farce as Syria did not destroy or remove all of his chemical weapons and Russia proved to be an unreliable policeman. Assad went on to launch chemical weapon attacks on locations including Ghouta, Aleppo, Khan Shaykhun, and other locations. President Obama Mistakenly Placing Trust in Iran: President Obama came into office seeking a new, improved relationship with the Iranian regime, and history has shown that was a disastrous mistake. Obama’s desire for a nuclear deal with Iran was so great that he allowed Iran free reign in Syria. Iran has used billions of dollars in proceeds from the nuclear deal to increase its military might and expand its influence throughout the Middle East. Iran and its proxy – the terrorist group Hezbollah – now are on the borders of Israel and continue to threaten our close ally. There is now a ‘Shia-Crescent’ which stretches from Tehran to Beirut and is controlled by Iran. “President Obama’s Syria policy can only be described as a disaster,” said Graham. “Time after time he trusted and placed confidence in competitors – if not outright enemies – of the United States. And time after time it proved to be a mistake. Decisions President Obama made – many which were applauded by some at the time – proved to be disasters as time passed. “Unlike President Obama, President Trump is a strong leader who realizes that America’s national security interests must come first and foremost in any U.S. policy,” said Graham. “While Russia and Iran are pushing for the United States to withdraw, the ultimate ‘America First’ policy is to stay and keep our boots on the throats of radical Islamic groups like ISIS. “Withdrawal of American forces gives ISIS, and other radical Islamic groups, the breathing space they desperately need to regroup, reorganize, and reconstitute,” said Graham. “President Trump will not let them off the mat again to threaten the United States or the American homeland. “President Trump showed decisive leadership in sending a strong American force into Syria,” continued Graham. “Working with American allies, like the Kurds and local Syrian opposition forces, we have been successful and President Trump deserves great credit for what they have accomplished. “President Trump will not abandon our Kurdish and Arab allies, who were instrumental in nearly defeating ISIS, or allow them to be eventually taken over by other hostile actors within the region,” said Graham. “They have borne the overwhelming burden of the fight, all the while helping minimize American losses. “America’s competitors and enemies knew that President Obama was weak and indecisive,” said Graham. “They see President Trump as steadfast. This is a night and day difference between the two. I don’t expect that to change.” #####
07.10.2018	Click here to watch.
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement effective July 31, 2018. “I deeply appreciate Justice Kennedy’s long service to our nation as a member of the Supreme Court and the federal judiciary. He is one of the most impactful Justices in modern Supreme Court history. “As a Supreme Court Justice, he called them as he saw them. He should be proud of the service he has rendered to the Rule of Law and our nation as a whole.” #####
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) continued to press the Inspector General (IG) of the Department of Justice (DOJ) Michael Horowitz for additional information about the August 15, 2016, meeting between three individuals in the office of the former Deputy Director of the FBI Andrew McCabe. According to released text messages, FBI agents Peter Strzok, the effective head of the Clinton email investigation and Lisa Page were in attendance, along with a third individual identified only as “Andy”. In a letter to the IG, Graham wrote, “Based on your answers, I have the impression Strzok told your office that McCabe, in fact, attended the meeting referenced in the text message. It is further my understanding that McCabe told your office he denied attending, or did not recall, the meeting referenced in the text message.” He continued, “Do you believe Strzok or McCabe, and why is it important? What did Page tell your office about the meeting referenced in the text message? What are your plans to resolve this factual dispute? I believe it would be of grave consequence if the Deputy Director of the FBI met with the lead investigator of the Clinton Email and Russia investigations to talk about “an insurance policy” against Donald Trump’s victory in the 2016 election. That would show bias and inappropriate behavior at the highest levels of the FBI. The full text of the letter is below and attached. June 20, 2018 The Honorable Michael E. Horowitz Inspector General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20530-0001 Dear Inspector General Horowitz: Thank you for your testimony and hard work on behalf of the Department of Justice and the American people. When you testified before the Senate Judiciary Committee on June 18, 2018, I asked you who “Andy” is in the following August 15, 2016, text message from Peter Strzok to Lisa Page: “I want to believe the path you threw out for consideration in Andy’s office — that there’s no way he gets elected — but I'm afraid we can’t take that risk. It’s like an insurance policy in the unlikely event you die before you're 40.” You responded that “Andy” refers to Andrew McCabe, the former Deputy Director of the FBI. Based on your answers, I have the impression Strzok told your office that McCabe, in fact, attended the meeting referenced in the text message. It is further my understanding that McCabe told your office he denied attending, or did not recall, the meeting referenced in the text message. Do you believe Strzok or McCabe, and why is it important? What did Page tell your office about the meeting referenced in the text message? What are your plans to resolve this factual dispute? I believe it would be of grave consequence if the Deputy Director of the FBI met with the lead investigator of the Clinton Email and Russia investigations to talk about “an insurance policy” against Donald Trump’s victory in the 2016 election. That would show bias and inappropriate behavior at the highest levels of the FBI. Please provide me with all documents, statements, and transcripts related to this text message exchange and the meeting described in the text message exchange, including any statements by Strzok, Page, and McCabe. I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham United States Senator
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voiced his support for the Health Care Choices Proposal, a plan created by grassroots groups to lower health care costs and increase choices for people across the United States. Graham has been a leader in pushing for health care policies that take money and power from bureaucrats in Washington and return it to states and localities who will be able to create more innovative solutions to health care problems. “Today’s announcement from the Health Policy Consensus Group is great news for American health care. I would especially like to thank Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky, Governor Phil Bryant of Mississippi, former Senator Rick Santorum and all those who have worked tirelessly to craft this proposal. “As long as Obamacare is the law of the land, we will continue to see premiums skyrocket and choices in health care deteriorate. Millions of Americans are suffering under Obamacare. They demand we provide them with more choices and health care that meets their needs. “Momentum continues to grow behind the idea that the more we can move money and power for health care decisions out of Washington, the better. “This idea – returning money and control to the states and localities – has been used before with great success when we reformed welfare. It freed states from the grips of a Washington-knows-best bureaucracy and allowed for innovation and cutting edge reforms. “I urge my colleagues to listen to the many Americans who understand Obamacare is failing them and expect the Republican majority to do its best to replace this disaster. Using this innovative proposal, we can continue to push for legislation that will lower costs and increase choices. Ultimately, I believe we will have a breakthrough and deliver for the American people.” ##### Background: Press Conference Proposal
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voiced his support for the Health Care Choices Proposal, a plan created by grassroots groups to lower health care costs and increase choices for people across the United States. Graham has been a leader in pushing for health care policies that take money and power from bureaucrats in Washington and return it to states and localities who will be able to create more innovative solutions to health care problems. “Today’s announcement from the Health Policy Consensus Group is great news for American health care. I would especially like to thank Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky, Governor Phil Bryant of Mississippi, former Senator Rick Santorum and all those who have worked tirelessly to craft this proposal. “As long as Obamacare is the law of the land, we will continue to see premiums skyrocket and choices in health care deteriorate. Millions of Americans are suffering under Obamacare. They demand we provide them with more choices and health care that meets their needs. “Momentum continues to grow behind the idea that the more we can move money and power for health care decisions out of Washington, the better. “This idea – returning money and control to the states and localities – has been used before with great success when we reformed welfare. It freed states from the grips of a Washington-knows-best bureaucracy and allowed for innovation and cutting edge reforms. “I urge my colleagues to listen to the many Americans who understand Obamacare is failing them and expect the Republican majority to do its best to replace this disaster. Using this innovative proposal, we can continue to push for legislation that will lower costs and increase choices. Ultimately, I believe we will have a breakthrough and deliver for the American people.” ##### Background: Press Conference Proposal
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) voted in favor of the John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (FY19 NDAA), which included several priorities for South Carolina and the rest of the nation. The bill was approved by the full Senate 85-10. Next, the legislation will go to a conference committee, where the House of Representatives and Senate will work out differences and produce a final version of the legislation. “The fact that this bill includes $716 billion in funding for our national defense is a testament to Chairman McCain’s commitment to serving the American people and protecting the homeland,” said Graham. “I truly appreciate his leadership, as well as Senator Jim Inhofe, Ranking Member Jack Reed and all of their capable staff for getting this important legislation swiftly approved by the committee and the full Senate.” “As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, I understand that the first and most important dollars our nation spends each year are for our national security,” said Graham. “We must ensure our men and women have the best tools, training and equipment to carry out their vital mission to protect our nation.” “Finally, South Carolina has long played an important role in the protection of our nation,” continued Graham. “I’m proud to have worked on these priorities for our national defense and our state. It’s important South Carolina remain the tip of the spear when it comes to meeting the needs of the military and our men and women in uniform.” Highlights of Graham provisions included in the Senate-passed FY19 NDAA: Authorizes six South Carolina Military Construction projects. A new MQ-9 Reaper Operations facility at Shaw Air Force Base A basic training barracks complex at Fort Jackson to support 1,200 trainees Improvements and modernization to training ranges at Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island A cryogenics facility at Marine Corps Air Station (MCAS) Beaufort A new hazardous waste/recycling facility at MCAS Beaufort Improvements to the electrical grid systems at MCAS Beaufort Advocates for South Carolina. Included an amendment for the MOX Facility at Savannah River Site which prohibits use of funds to close down the facility Encourages DOD to consider the use of airless tires, important to South Carolina tire industry Fully authorizes continued production rate of Meals Ready-to-Eat (MREs) – hundreds of thousands are manufactured in South Carolina – vital for our troops serving in combat Encourages the efficient and economical operation of Working Capital Fund activities like SPAWAR, Charleston Fully authorizes the President’s Request for the T-X program in South Carolina’s Upstate – a key aspect of the Air Force’s mission to develop a new training jet – which could add hundreds of jobs to the Palmetto State Helps facilitate two land transfers for the South Carolina National Guard Authorizes $529 million to procure a critical type of field artillery, Paladin Integrated Management set, supported by BAE Systems in Aiken Includes a provision to help the defense supply chain with implementing stronger cybersecurity protections, which helps small and medium-sized South Carolina businesses that are essential to the defense industry Directs the Secretary of the Army to provide a study on the Columbia-manufactured M240 medium machine gun Gives Troops a Much-Deserved Pay Raise. Authorizes a 2.6 percent pay raise for members of the Armed Forces Stands Strong for Israel. Authorizes an increase in the amount of precision guided munitions available to enable our allies, such as Israel, to counter regional threats ####
06.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned the Inspector General (IG) of the Department of Justice (DOJ) Michael Horowitz and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Christopher Wray on the IG’s findings regarding conduct within DOJ and FBI leading up to the 2016 presidential election. Specifically, Graham focused on released text messages between two FBI agents, Peter Strzok, the effective head of the Clinton email investigation, and Lisa Page. The pair exhibited extreme bias against then-candidate Donald J. Trump in communications on official FBI devices. Graham argued this bias led to the decision to not hold Hillary Clinton criminally liable, as a way to keep her in the running for president. Clinton was the preferred candidate of Strzok and Page, and other FBI agents. GRAHAM: “I’m not buying that the Clinton email investigation was on the up and up. And the reason I’m not buying it is cause the two people intimately involved, one the lead investigator, clearly did not want to see Donald Trump become President of the United States. Finally, do you agree with me that finding her [Hillary Clinton] liable, criminally, would be inconsistent with stopping Donald Trump? If they [the FBI] found Hillary Clinton was criminally liable, that paves the way for Donald Trump [to be elected president]. Can you put those two things together?” HOROWITZ: “I guess it would depend when, but yes… it clearly could conceivably.” GRAHAM: “Well not only clearly conceivably, that’s exactly what’s happening here folks. You cannot hold her [Hillary Clinton] criminally liable and stop him [President Trump].” https://youtu.be/jQx5u5GQ5NA?t=6m9s GRAHAM: “Gross negligence is a criminally liable standard.” HOROWITZ: “Correct.” GRAHAM: “So if they [the FBI] had said it the way they had originally wrote it, she’s [Hillary Clinton] guilty of a crime and the reason they changed it is because [some people think] she’s not guilty of a crime. And if you want to stop him [Donald Trump], it can’t be gross negligence.” https://youtu.be/jQx5u5GQ5NA?t=7m24s GRAHAM: “What’s the difference between [extremely careless] and gross negligence?” HOROWITZ: “Not much.” GRAHAM: “It’s a lot, politically.” https://youtu.be/jQx5u5GQ5NA?t=7m41s
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement. “Having the federal court stop the Department of Energy (DOE) from terminating the MOX program is great news for South Carolina. It came about as the result of outstanding advocacy by Attorney General Alan Wilson and his terrific legal team. He was a real champion — standing up for South Carolina interests —in battling an out of control DOE. I very much appreciate his strong advocacy and leadership to stop DOE from terminating the MOX program in such a haphazard fashion. This ruling is a big win for Savannah River Site, the people of South Carolina, and the Rule of Law. “DOE’s decision to terminate MOX will be a case study in arbitrary and capricious decision making by the federal government. Yesterday’s decision will allow the congressional delegation, working with President Trump, to stop this madness and ensure South Carolina is not left holding the bag.” ##### Background: Aiken Standard: Federal judge approves MOX injunction, halting full project stoppage Augusta Chronicle: Federal judge issues injunction in favor of MOX project
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the Army Corps of Engineers announced they would include approximately $50 million in funding in their FY 2018 Work Plan in support of the Charleston Harbor Deepening project. Graham has been a leader in pushing Charleston Harbor deepening forward and has worked to secure the necessary funding and authorizations to keep the project on track. A deepened Charleston Harbor will help preserve South Carolina’s role as a leader in international manufacturing and also makes the state attractive to businesses seeking additional investment opportunities. “I’m very appreciative of the Trump Administration’s decision to dedicate nearly $50 million to deepen Charleston Harbor. When it comes to the Port of Charleston, President Trump listened and delivered. OMB Director Mick Mulvaney was invaluable in making the case for the needs of Charleston. “This is great news for the Port of Charleston and the state of South Carolina. Charleston Harbor deepening is about jobs – both today and in the future. With this news we are one step closer to having the most dynamic port in the United States. “The nearly $50 million in the Army Corps’ work plan allows construction to go forward without delay and keeps the project on track. And when it comes to Charleston Harbor deepening – and the needs and demands of international shipping – time is money. “It’s long been my belief that the sooner we get this project done, the better. It remains a top priority for me and will continue to be so until it is complete. “I also want to thank the congressional delegation – particularly my friend and colleague Tim Scott -- for their unified efforts in support of the Port and Governor McMaster’s strong and effective voice. I also very much appreciate the support of South Carolina State Senator Hugh Leatherman and the entire South Carolina State Legislature. “Charleston Harbor deepening has been a team effort. I think we all understand this is a long term investment which will benefit South Carolina and American business in perpetuity.” #####
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with President Trump and fellow senators at the White House about trade negotiations. “It was great meeting with President Trump on his trade agenda. I’m confident he is on track to get us better trade deals throughout the world including in our own backyard. I believe in free trade but it must also be fair. “Now is not the time to undercut President Trump’s ability to negotiate better trade deals. I will not support any efforts that weaken his position. “I strongly believe there is a plan in place to lead us to better trade deals. We should give the president the time and ability to achieve his goals.” ###
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded the signing into law of the John S. McCain III, Daniel K. Akaka and Samuel R. Johnson VA Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks (MISSION) Act – also known as the VA MISSION Act. Graham attended the White House ceremony where President Trump signed the measure into law. The VA MISSION Act will overhaul the VA health care system, providing veterans across the United States with easier access to more choices for quality health care. “I’m proud to join President Trump and my colleagues as we celebrate the VA MISSION Act being signed into law. This bill will ensure our veterans receive the speedy and high-quality care they have earned,” said Graham. Graham continued, “I would especially like to thank Chairman Isakson for spearheading the effort to get this legislation passed by Congress and onto President Trump’s desk. This is a monumental step forward in providing quality health care to the bravest among us.” The VA MISSION Act: Consolidates seven VA community care programs into one streamlined program Removes red tape so local providers can better serve veterans in their communities Expands eligibility for VA’s Caregiver Program to veterans of all generations Creates standards for timely payment to community care providers Provides $5.2 billion for the Veterans Choice Fund A longer summary of the VA MISSION Act is here. ####
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) introduced and passed an amendment to the FY 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which prohibits the Department of Energy (DOE) from terminating the MOX program at Savannah River Site. The Graham amendment was approved by the full Senate Armed Services Committee during the committee’s consideration of the FY 19 NDAA. The legislation will be debated and voted on in the full Senate in coming weeks. “By supporting MOX, I advocated for a mission that I thought was good for the world, the country and the state of South Carolina,” said Graham. “In good faith, we took weapons-grade plutonium with an understanding of what would happen to it. Now that agreement is being broken by DOE. And in terminating the MOX program, we will be tearing up the world’s largest non-proliferation agreement. “DOE has abandoned MOX, but Congress hasn’t,” continued Graham. “The new plan from DOE is to take the material, dilute it and dispose of it in New Mexico. The problem with that approach is that it won’t work and the New Mexico delegation in the Senate does not support the material coming to their state. We have the opportunity to prevent DOE from repeating mistakes of the past. We know MOX works and we know dilute and dispose has problems that appear to be insurmountable. “The impact of DOE’s decision is dire,” said Graham. “If the department allows MOX to fail, we already know dilute and dispose won’t work and it leaves us with weapons-grade plutonium – with a half-life of 24,100 years – without a clear pathway out of our state. “Canceling MOX means our only pathway forward is gone,” said Graham. “We will have a $5.2 billion wasted investment that will become the most expensive deer stand in the history of the world.” ##### Audio of Senator Graham Discussing the MOX Program Earlier this Week is Available: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YlMD34MJpTE&t=1s
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Sherri Lydon’s confirmation as the next U.S. Attorney for the state of South Carolina. “I’m very pleased that Sherri Lydon has been unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate to be the next U.S. Attorney for South Carolina. “Ms. Lydon is highly qualified and I appreciate President Trump nominating her. This is an historic moment for South Carolina, as she is the first female U.S. Attorney for our state to be nominated by a president.” ####
05.17.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate’s confirmation of Gina Haspel to be the new Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). “I’m very glad the Senate has confirmed Gina Haspel as the new Director of the CIA. “Ms. Haspel is highly qualified and has worked her way up through the ranks. She’s a seasoned intelligence professional at a time of great danger facing our nation. I know she will serve President Trump and our nation well in this important position.” ####
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in support of South Carolina’s Mitchell “Mick” Zais being confirmed to serve as the Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Education. The vote in the Senate was 50-48. “I’m very pleased and proud the Senate has finally confirmed Mick Zais to serve as the Deputy Secretary of Education. He believes in a strong public education system with flexibility and will be a valuable ally to Secretary DeVos. “In addition, I appreciate President Trump choosing him for this important position.” ####
05.15.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with President Donald Trump and Senate Republicans. “President Trump is a true believer in ‘Peace through Strength’. “President Trump gave an excellent overview of our North Korea and Iran policy, and how he plans to forcefully deal with both threats. “He’s fully committed to denuclearizing the Korean peninsula, and hopes to make it a win-win for North Korea and the world at large. However, he is also strongly committed to protecting United States interests and the American homeland from a nuclear-armed North Korea. “As for Iran, he expressed a strong desire and resolve to sanction the Iranian regime for its efforts to dismember the Middle East. He stated one of the biggest threats the world faces is a nuclear-armed Iran. The President will continue to challenge our European allies to get a better deal. He is fully committed to re-imposing sanctions – as hard as he can for as long as necessary – to stop Iran’s march through the Middle East. “It was a very good foreign policy discussion. I appreciate President Trump taking the time to speak with us about his plans to keep our nation strong and secure.” ####
05.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the new U.S. Embassy opening in Jerusalem. “This is a monumental day in United States-Israel relations as we finally open an embassy in Jerusalem, the capital of Israel. “For over 20 years, it has been American policy to recognize Jerusalem as the capital, but it wasn’t until today – and the leadership of President Trump – that we had an embassy in Jerusalem. I truly appreciate the President turning this important recognition into reality. “At a time of great upheaval across the Middle East, this announcement sends a clear message that the United States has Israel’s back – without equivocation. “I’m proud to be present and leading the Senate delegation for this historic event. It’s a true honor.” ####
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in support of President Trump’s nominee to be the first female Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), Gina Haspel. “I intend to support Gina Haspel to serve as the first female Director of the CIA. “She has risen through the ranks of the organization receiving high marks from all who have interacted with her. She also has the support of six former CIA Directors serving under both Republican and Democratic administrations. “The selection of Ms. Haspel will be good for morale within the CIA and give the country a seasoned intelligence expert at a time of great need. “Ms. Haspel has rejected the interrogation policies of the past. She is fully committed to following the law that prevents future abuses. This law, among others, includes the Detainee Treatment Act which I helped author. “Gina Haspel should be confirmed as soon as possible as we live in a time of continuing threats.” ####
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. “I strongly support President Trump’s decision to withdraw from the Iran nuclear deal. He made a strong and convincing case for this position. “The agreement has always been fatally flawed when it came to controlling Iranian nuclear ambitions. With the mere passage of time, the deal allows Iran to enrich and reprocess uranium – without limitation – on its march toward a nuclear weapon. This would have required our Arab allies to develop a nuclear weapon of their own to counter the growing Iranian threat. “There are some who blindly supported this deal, regardless of the risks it posed to our own national security. They sincerely believed that by providing Iran with sanctions relief, the Iranians would change course and become a better member of the family of nations. Those assumptions have proven to be a disastrous mistake. “Instead, Iran has used the funds provided by sanctions relief to significantly enhance their military capability and create havoc throughout the Middle East. They also have used the funds to increase the threats posed to our ally in Israel. “I hope President Trump will work with our allies around the world to find a better deal which will truly end Iran’s nuclear weapons ambition and hold them accountable for being the largest state-sponsor of terrorism. “Of equal importance, today’s action also sends a strong signal to the North Koreans. The Trump Administration is serious about denuclearization and will not support weak deals with loopholes. President Trump is not going to let the Iranians – or the North Koreans – have it both ways. He certainly isn’t going to repeat President Obama and Secretary Kerry’s mistakes.” ####
05.02.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) have sent a letter to U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Alex Azar, urging the agency to restore Title X Family Planning regulations that ensure that abortion is not federally funded. The letter was signed by forty-one senators. Specifically, the letter Graham and Scott signed requests that HHS restore previous regulations prohibiting Title X grant recipients from promoting, counseling, or referring clients for abortions, and from co-locating with abortion clinics. “Section 1008 of the Public Health Service Act clearly states that no federal funds appropriated for Title X for family-planning services ‘shall be used in programs where abortion is a method of family planning.’ However, the program’s current regulations (42 CFR 59) undermine the law,” the senators wrote. “We ask that you restore the regulations issued on February 2, 1988 (53 FR 2922), which clarified that Title X programs may not promote, counsel, or refer clients for abortion or co-locate or combine family planning services with abortion activities.” The senators continued, “We applaud the states that have acted on Congress’ 2017 legislation overturning an Obama-era Title X rule (P.L. 115-23) by redirecting these funds from abortion entities like Planned Parenthood towards community health centers that provide more comprehensive health services for women, but not abortion. Nevertheless, we urge the administration to do more. ... These new regulations should ensure program integrity by requiring a robust and complete separation of abortion activities from federally funded family planning activities. Any programs failing to achieve this standard should not receive federal funding.” The full text of the letter is available here. ####
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump nominating two South Carolinians, U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina Marvin Quattlebaum and Deputy Criminal Chief of the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of South Carolina Jay Richardson, to serve as circuit judges on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. “I really appreciate President Trump nominating two highly qualified South Carolinians to serve on the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. Marvin Quattlebaum and Jay Richardson are solid conservatives who are highly respected by the South Carolina legal community. They will be great additions to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals. #####
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on voting to confirm Mike Pompeo as President Trump’s new Secretary of State. “I’m pleased that Mike Pompeo has been confirmed as our new Secretary of State. He is a highly qualified and incredibly competent choice – who enjoys the President’s closest confidence. He will be an outstanding Secretary of State at a time of international upheaval and opportunity. “As to the actions of the forty-two Senate Democrats who voted against his nomination – they should be ashamed of the way they treated Secretary Pompeo.” #####
04.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate’s vote to confirm Richard Grenell as the U.S. Ambassador to Germany. “I’m glad we have finally confirmed Mr. Grenell as Ambassador to Germany. The nomination was delayed far too long for such an important position and during such troubling times. The extreme partisanship displayed toward Mr. Grenell, a highly qualified nominee from President Trump, will be remembered.” #####
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President of France Emmanuel Macron’s address before a joint meeting of Congress. “President Macron delivered an eloquent and inspiring address to Congress. He described the unique relationship between France and the United States which is based on common values that have stood the test of time. “President Macron has been a great partner to President Trump in confronting the challenges of terrorism and globalization. “In President Macron’s speech about preserving the post-World War II world order and rejecting the false promises of isolationism, I heard the voice of John McCain – an ally and kindred spirit for the thoughts expressed by President Macron. “As to the Iran Nuclear Deal, it must be made better or we must withdraw. The Iran Nuclear Deal in its current form ensures a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. President Trump is right to withdraw if the deal is not made substantially better. I hope President Macron can convince the world community to bring about the much-needed changes.” #####
04.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Secretary of the Navy Richard Spencer, Chief of Naval Operations Admiral John Richardson, and Commandant of the Marine Corps General Robert Neller. On Syria: GRAHAM: “To the American people: You may be tired of fighting these people [radical Islamic terrorists], but they are not tired of fighting you. You can build a wall on the southern border, but that’s not going to protect you from Mideast threats. If some of us are not over there working with our partners, they’re going to come here again…Does that make sense to the Marine Corps?” NELLER: “We don’t want to be playing any home games, Senator.” https://youtu.be/JghGjlEOJKM?t=11s GRAHAM: “To hold the territory [in Syria], there has to be a holding force or they [ISIS] will come back?” NELLER: “If there is a vacuum, then they will move into it, yes.” https://youtu.be/JghGjlEOJKM?t=1m39s On sequestration: GRAHAM: “On 12 June, 2017, Secretary Mattis said, ‘no enemy in the field has done more to harm the combat readiness of our military than sequestration.’ Do you agree with that?” SPENCER: “I do.” GRAHAM: “Would you tell every member of this committee without hesitation: ‘Don’t put me back into sequestration?’” SPENCER: “Don’t put me back in sequestration.” https://youtu.be/JghGjlEOJKM?t=2m41s
04.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “I applaud and admire the bravery of our men and women in uniform. They continue to carry out their duties and responsibilities in a manner which makes all Americans proud. “President Trump deserves credit for working with our allies and ordering this strike against Assad. He is a ruthless butcher who has murdered hundreds of thousands of Syrians and should be considered a war criminal. “But I fear that when the dust settles this strike will be seen as a weak military response and Assad will have paid a small price for using chemical weapons yet again. Assad has likely calculated a limited American strike is just the cost of doing business. Russia and Iran will view the limited action as the United States being content to drop a few bombs before heading for the exits. We seem to have settled on and be comfortable with being the chemical weapons police. “It’s not the type of sustained, game-changing strategy that will lead to Assad, Russia, or Iran changing or reevaluating their strategy in Syria. It is clear our military response was a tactical response meant to deter future chemical weapons attacks. That’s a positive. But it was not part of an overall strategy to degrade Assad’s war making capability or counter Iranian and Russian aggression. “To those who believe the administration does not have a strategy when it comes to Syria, I respectfully disagree. The administration does have a strategy – and it’s to withdraw from Syria as quickly as possible. “To do so will be letting the radical Islamists off the mat to regroup and organize, put Israel at increased risk from Iran and its proxy Hezbollah who will now have two neighboring countries (Syria and Lebanon) to use as bases of operations, strengthen the role of Putin’s Russia in the Middle East, and create havoc for our Arab allies in the region. At the end of the day, this will be seen as a victory for Russia and Iran. It’s a nightmare for the Syrian people and our regional allies, both Arab and Israeli. We have seen this movie before. It does not end well and is a recipe for disaster. “Ignoring the situation in Syria, simply saying — Not Our Problem — was a losing strategy when President Obama adopted it five years ago. And it’s a losing strategy still today.” ####
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Sherri Lydon to be the U.S. Attorney for the state of South Carolina. “I’m very pleased that President Trump has nominated Sherri Lydon to be the next U.S. Attorney for the state of South Carolina. This is an historic nomination as she will be the first female U.S. Attorney in the history of our state to be nominated by a president. “Ms. Lydon is a well-respected and accomplished lawyer with vast experience. I have every confidence that she will serve and protect the people of South Carolina in this position.” #####
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Speaker of the House Paul Ryan. “I’m very disappointed to hear that Speaker Ryan will be retiring at the end of this term. “Paul is a good friend and one of the most talented people I have ever met in politics. “As Speaker, he delivered to the American people a once-in-a-generation tax reform bill that will pay dividends in the decades to come. He is a young, smart, capable man who still has a bright future ahead of him. I hope at some future date he will get back into the arena and continue to serve our nation. “I wish Paul and his family much happiness and best of luck on all his future endeavors.” #####
04.10.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the hearing with Facebook. “What did I learn from today’s hearing? “First, Mr. Zuckerberg is well-meaning and he has created a product – Facebook – which has enriched billions of peoples’ lives. But there is also a dark side to Facebook which needs to be addressed. “Second, contrary to Mr. Zuckerberg’s assertion, Facebook is a virtual monopoly and monopolies need to be regulated. “Third, most Americans have no idea what they are signing up for because Facebook’s terms of service are beyond comprehension. “Fourth, it would be difficult for members of Congress to tell their constituents we trust Facebook to continue to self-regulate given the problems we have seen. “I expect the regulatory regime for a company like Facebook will be challenging and difficult. The regulatory tools available to us today may or may not work with Facebook. It could possibly take the creation of new laws and regulations to deal with this platform. But I do believe this: continued self-regulation is not the right answer when it comes to dealing with the abuses we have seen on Facebook.” #####
04.04.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the 50th anniversary of the assassination of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. “Fifty years ago today, an assassin tried to silence the powerful message of the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. He failed. “Dr. King’s life and teachings will survive throughout the ages. As long as mankind struggles for social justice, freedom, and nonviolence, Dr. King’s voice will be heard. “He was truly one of the most gifted orators and writers in the history of our nation. Dr. King moved America in the right direction and made the ultimate sacrifice for the betterment of our nation.” #####
04.03.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today welcomed the Trump Administration’s additional tariffs on China. “Nothing will ever change when it comes to China’s business practices until somebody starts pushing back. “I very much appreciate the Trump Administration and Ambassador Lighthizer’s efforts to push back against unfair Chinese trade practices by placing tariffs on products that receive substantial benefit from illegal technology transfers or the Chinese government’s manipulation of commerce. It is not too much to ask for China to stop stealing intellectual property and open up their markets that are closed due to heavy-handed Chinese government barriers to foreign business enterprises.” #####
03.27.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today reacted to an op-ed written by former associate justice of the U.S. Supreme Court John Paul Stevens that argued for the repeal of the Second Amendment. “I will protect the Second Amendment, not repeal it. “Like every American, Justice Stevens is entitled to his opinion, but I am very glad he is now retired. And I have zero intention of following his counsel. In fact, statements like this epitomize out-of-touch liberals who do not appreciate the important role the Second Amendment has played – and continues to play – in our nation. “Finally, statements like this should remind conservatives just how important Supreme Court nominations can be. It makes me appreciate President Trump’s nomination and the Senate’s confirmation of Justice Gorsuch even more.” Background: Retired justice urges repeal of Second Amendment #####
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the news that President Trump ordered the expulsion of Russian intelligence officers from the United States. “As I said last week, ‘Anything short of expelling Russian diplomats and agents will be seen by the Russians as a sign of weakness – and by our allies in Europe as an American retreat in the face of Russian aggression.’ “I am very pleased to see President Trump today take action and expel Russian diplomats in response to the recent poisoning attack in Great Britain. Our allies in the United Kingdom were counting on the United States to be in their corner when it comes to pushing back firmly against Russia’s outrageous conduct. This chemical attack put dozens of people’s lives at risk and violates every legal norm in the civilized world. “Today’s decision will reinforce our support and allegiance with the United Kingdom, one of our closest allies. It also represents the United States’ complete rejection of Russia’s denial of involvement in the attack. “When it comes to Russia we must continue to take strong action and today’s announcement is a good start. I greatly appreciate President Trump for taking this decisive action.” #####
03.26.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) spoke with Fox News’ Maria Bartiromo on Sunday about John Bolton, the Taylor Force Act becoming law and more. On John Bolton: GRAHAM: “John Bolton sees North Korea for the threat they are... John Bolton has been the biggest critic of the Iran Deal. It’s a terrible deal. So I am very pleased with John Bolton as the National Security Adviser to President Trump. It’s going to make the world safer.” https://youtu.be/I-f289mIsR4?t=3m28s On the Taylor Force Act becoming law: GRAHAM: “[With the passage of the Taylor Force Act] American tax dollars will no longer be given to the Palestinian Authority until they change their laws rewarding their young people for killing Jews and Americans.” https://youtu.be/I-f289mIsR4?t=13m7s GRAHAM: “This is probably the biggest change in twenty years in terms of how the American government relates to the Palestinians and it’s long overdue.” https://youtu.be/I-f289mIsR4?t=13m49s On calls for a second special counsel: GRAHAM: “I want more information. I want to be able to prove that the FBI investigation of the Clinton email scandal was a sham. That the lead investigator… hated Trump, [was] supportive of Clinton. They whitewashed the email scandal.” https://youtu.be/I-f289mIsR4?t=8m18s GRAHAM: “When it comes to the dossier that was used by the Department of Justice to get a warrant against Carter Page, it was prepared by a paid informant of the Democratic Party, a foreign agent with ties to Russia. It is completely unverified. And it should never have been used as a basis for a FISA warrant. And I want a special counsel to look at all of this, like Mueller is looking at Trump.” https://youtu.be/I-f289mIsR4?t=8m45s
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) tonight made this statement. “I deeply appreciate Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster’s service to President Trump as National Security Adviser. He has much to be proud of as our national security postures have greatly improved on President Trump’s watch. He is one of the great national security minds of our time and a terrific patriot. I wish him well in all future endeavors. “Selecting John Bolton as National Security Adviser is good news for America’s allies and bad news for America’s enemies. “I have known John Bolton for well over a decade and believe he will do an outstanding job as President Trump’s new National Security Adviser. He has a firm understanding of the threats we face from North Korea, Iran, and radical Islam. “As our U.N. Ambassador under President Bush, John Bolton is a well-known figure throughout the world. I’m excited about working with Mr. Bolton to enhance our national security. “President Trump could not have made a better choice in terms of having a reliable, seasoned, national security confidante.” #####
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on the Trump administration’s new effort to address China’s unfair practices that are hurting American workers. “I’m very pleased and supportive of President Trump’s efforts to push back against China’s intellectual property theft, dumping, and other unfair trade practices. This pushback by President Trump is long overdue as a nation. “I want to congratulate him for carrying out yet another campaign promise to push back against China for their unfair trade practices. If we continue this policy, China will over time change the way they do business which will be a Godsend for the American worker. “It’s important we separate how we treat the Chinese – whose unfair and illegal trading practices have cost our nation jobs – versus our allies who trade and play by the rules. The Chinese are in a class by themselves and should be treated as such.” ###
03.22.2018	WATCH: Senators Hold Press Conference on Legislation to Fight Fentanyl WASHINGTON – Senators Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John Kennedy (R-Louisiana), Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-Louisiana), Dean Heller (R-Nevada), and Ben Sasse (R-Nebraska) today introduced legislation to fight the opioid epidemic by strengthening penalties for fentanyl distribution and trafficking to ensure they better reflect the serious nature of the crime. Fentanyl is 100 times more powerful than morphine and has played an outsized role in the opioid epidemic. “Fentanyl is one of the most dangerous drugs there is. It killed more than 20,000 Americans last year and has been a driving force behind the opioid crisis in the United States. But while the epidemic has spiraled, our drug laws have been stuck in the past. This bill will make sure, when it comes to opioid distribution and trafficking, the punishment fits the crime,” said Senator Cotton. “Fentanyl is one of the most deadly drugs on the market and I look forward to working with Senators Cotton, Kennedy, Cassidy, Heller, and Sasse to substantially increase penalties for those who traffic this horrific drug,” said Senator Graham. “I’ll also be working with Senator Cotton and others to explore the possibility of even stronger penalties—that could include the death penalty if the fentanyl results in someone’s death—for those who choose to push this deadly drug into our communities. Increasing these mandatory minimums is well-justified.” “Fentanyl is an incredibly powerful drug. If you are trafficking this deadly drug, you ought to be punished to the full extent of the law. You aren’t going to motivate dealers and traffickers by pleading to their conscience. They know how deadly it is, and they just don’t care. Too many men and women have died as a result of fentanyl; it needs to stop,” said Senator Kennedy. “I am proud to be a part of this important effort.” “Drug traffickers take lives and get away with a slap on the wrist,” said Dr. Cassidy. “This bill ensures those who traffic and deal fentanyl pay a higher price.” “The opioid crisis is a symptom of America’s loneliness crisis,” said Senator Sasse. “On the demand side, addiction is something that’s tackled best by our families, neighbors, and communities. But, on the supply side, Congress has an important opportunity to crack down on the low-life traffickers who are ripping our communities apart. Modernizing our fentanyl sentencing laws just makes sense.” Background: This bill will reduce the amount of fentanyl and its analogues required for mandatory sentencing minimums to apply in distribution cases. 20 grams substance containing fentanyl = 10+ years (changes current amount of 400 grams) 5 grams substance containing fentanyl analogue = 10+ years (changes current amount of 100 grams) 2 grams substance containing fentanyl = 5+ years (changes current amount of 40 grams) .5 grams substance containing fentanyl analogue = 5+ years (changes current amount of 10 grams) It will also provide resources to the Post Office to stop shipments of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids arriving from overseas. ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON – Legislation that will end American taxpayer dollars going to the Palestinian Authority if they do not stop paying monetary rewards to terrorists and their surviving family members is set to pass Congress this week as part of the government funding bill. The legislation – the Taylor Force Act – was introduced by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). Force’s parents – Robbi and Stuart Force – live in Kiawah Island, South Carolina. Taylor Force was a West Point graduate and United States Army veteran who was visiting Israel as a part of a Vanderbilt University program. He was brutally stabbed and killed by a Palestinian terrorist. The Palestinian Authority praised Force’s killer as a ‘heroic martyr’ and is paying the killer’s family a monthly cash stipend. Last year, President of the Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas said he would not stop the practice of paying terrorists, even if he had to step down from office. “After over two years of very hard work, we are on the verge of having the Taylor Force Act become law,” said Graham. “This is one of the most significant pieces of legislation I’ve been involved with. The powerful message from the Force family, along with effort from the pro-Israel community led by Sander Gerber, have made this possible.” “Taylor was an American hero who was brutally murdered at the hands of terrorists,” said Graham. “Yet instead of condemning this horrific attack – and so many others like it – the Palestinian Authority pays monetary rewards to terrorists and their families. These rewards for terrorist attacks are inconsistent with American values. They are inconsistent with decency, and they are certainly inconsistent with peace.” “Passage of the Taylor Force Act will give us much-needed leverage with the Palestinians to push back on this outrageous policy,” said Graham. “Finally, this was truly a bipartisan effort and I appreciate Senator Mitch McConnell, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker, Senator Chuck Schumer, House Speaker Paul Ryan, Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs Ed Royce and Eliot Engel, and many others for helping push it across the finish line. I also appreciate the hard work of the Force family and the many friends of Taylor Force who made it clear to Congress that this practice must be stopped.” ##### BACKGROUND INFORMATION ON TAYLOR FORCE ACT YOUTUBE: Parents of Taylor Force Joins Members of Congress to Press for Passage of the Taylor Force Act CHARLESTON POST & COURIER: Couple find mission in son’s tragic death. Graham bill honors Taylor Force, a veteran slain by Palestinian terrorist FOX NEWS: Terror victim's family, West Point classmates plead with senators: Stop 'Pay for Slay' FOX NEWS: Bill in Congress Would Pressure Palestinian government to cut off terror-tied payments CNN: American Killed in Stabbing Attack in Israel TIMES OF ISRAEL: Jaffa terror victim was US Army vet, Vanderbilt student
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the phone call between President Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin. “If White House reports are accurate, President Trump missed an important opportunity to mention the attempted murder of a former Soviet agent and his daughter in Britain or Russia’s continuing attacks on our elections during a phone call with Vladimir Putin. “Our allies in Britain are counting on the United States to be in their corner when it comes to pushing back firmly against Russia’s outrageous conduct. This chemical attack has put dozens of people’s lives at risk and violates every legal norm in the civilized world. “The White House should expel Russian diplomats and agents from the United States in retaliation for the recent attacks in Britain. I hope the administration will take decisive action not only to let Great Britain know we’re in their corner, but to also let the Russians know this kind of behavior will not be tolerated by the international community. “The choice to send a clear signal to Russia is a defining moment for the President and his team. Anything short of expelling Russian diplomats and agents will be seen by the Russians as a sign of weakness – and by our allies in Europe as an American retreat in the face of Russian aggression.” #####
03.16.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) will next week unveil legislation to help fight the opioid epidemic that will ensure penalties for fentanyl distribution and trafficking better reflect the nature of the crime. Fentanyl, a fully synthetic opioid, is 100 times more powerful than morphine. It has been a driving force behind the opioid epidemic in the United States and is being dumped here predominantly from China. Specifically, this bill will reduce the amount of fentanyl required for mandatory sentencing minimums to apply in distribution cases. It will also provide resources to the Post Office to stop shipments of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids arriving from overseas. “Fentanyl is one of the most deadly drugs on the market and I look forward to working with Senator Cotton to substantially increase penalties for those who traffic this horrific drug,” said Graham. “I’ll also be working with Senator Cotton and others to explore the possibility of even stronger penalties—that could include the death penalty if the fentanyl results in someone’s death—for those who choose to push this deadly drug into our communities. Increasing these mandatory minimums is well-justified.” “Fentanyl has had a devastating impact on our country. More than 20,000 Americans were killed by fentanyl last year, and overall drug deaths have nearly doubled in the past decade. It’s past time the punishment matched the crime when it comes to opioid distribution and trafficking,” said Cotton. ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Vladimir Putin and sanctions announced by the Treasury Department against Russia. “I have long argued Vladimir Putin is not – and has never been – America’s friend. “Whether it was the brazen nerve gas attack in England, cyberattacks on the American electrical grid and institutions, meddling in American elections, aggression against Ukraine, or continued actions in Syria in support of Bashar al-Assad, Putin is committed to harming the security and well-being of the United States. “I fear many Americans only view the threat posed by Putin’s Russia through the lens of the 2016 election. Putin’s actions and intentions against United States citizens – and our allies – go far beyond one election. “Putin’s Russia is striking at the very heart of the freedoms, democratic values and liberty all Americans hold dear. His aim is to disrupt every aspect of our lives – right down to having the ability to shut off the power in Americans’ homes or businesses. Left unchecked, Putin’s Russia will continue to sow discord. “I support the sanctions announced today by the Treasury Department, but believe even more must be done. “We must take a strong stand to make clear this type of behavior from Putin’s Russia – nerve gas attacks, cyberattacks, meddling in elections and more – will not be tolerated today, tomorrow or ever.” #####
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Larry Kudlow being named President Trump’s new National Economic Council advisor. “I’m very pleased to hear that President Trump has chosen Larry Kudlow to be his new National Economic Council advisor. This is a home run choice, as Larry has been one of the strongest and most consistent voices for pro-growth economic policies. He understands that for Americans to prosper, the economy has to grow. “He will be a steady hand in helping implement President Trump’s pro-growth agenda and will provide insightful advice backed by a deep understanding of how the American economy works. Larry Kudlow will serve President Trump well in this new role.” #####
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) questioned the Commander of U.S. Central Command General Joseph Votel on the United States’ lack of strategy to combat Iran and Russia’s influence in Syria during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. Background: The Most Unnerving Visit to the Middle East in a Long Time by Senator Lindsey Graham GRAHAM: “Is Iran helping Assad?” VOTEL: “Iran has been a key enabler of the regime for a while.” GRAHAM: “Is Russia helping Assad?” VOTEL: “They are also a key enabler of the regime.” GRAHAM: “Is it too strong a statement to say that with Russia and Iran’s help, Assad has won the civil war in Syria?” VOTEL: “I don’t think that is too strong of a statement.” https://youtu.be/3AO5caWU5Dk?t=56s GRAHAM: “What does it mean if Iran and Russia and Assad have won in Syria? What does it mean to us and to the region?” VOTEL: “It means that we will contend with this influence of Iran in this particular area and with the influence of Russia.” GRAHAM: “What does it mean to Israel?” VOTEL: “Well, certainly from an Iranian standpoint it means that Iran could be in a position where they could support Lebanese Hezbollah better and then pose a greater threat to Israel.” https://youtu.be/3AO5caWU5Dk?t=1m42s
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements. On Secretary Tillerson: “I very much appreciate Secretary Tillerson’s service to our nation as Secretary of State. His efforts to reorganize and streamline the State Department – bringing its policies and practices into the 21st Century – should continue. Secretary Tillerson worked tirelessly on behalf of President Trump and should be proud of his tenure as Secretary of State.” On the nomination of Mike Pompeo: “I cannot think of a better choice for our new Secretary of State than Mike Pompeo. “As Director of the CIA, Mike has made contacts throughout the world and has come up with aggressive policies to defend our homeland. No one understands the threat posed by North Korea and Iran better than he does. He has made alliances that will benefit the United States and our allies. “One of the most important jobs for the Secretary of State is to make clear to the world the President’s policies and priorities. “No one has a stronger relationship with President Trump than Mike Pompeo. This relationship will empower him throughout his tenure as Secretary of State.” #####
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on introducing extreme risk protection order legislation with U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Connecticut). “Our government encourages our citizens that if you ‘See something, Say something.’ We also need ‘Do something.’ “With the introduction of this bill today, our goal is to begin a national conversation on how we can prevent individuals who are in crisis from accessing deadly weapons. Senator Blumenthal and I disagree on many issues regarding the Second Amendment, but we strongly agree restricting access to firearms by those who pose an imminent danger to themselves or others is a strong step forward. “I have spoken with Vice President Mike Pence about a similar provision in Indiana law, and the legislation we bring forward today is modeled on that state’s approach. It seeks to balance the Second Amendment rights of the individual with concerns from law enforcement and family members about those who may be experiencing a mental health crisis. “The Emergency Risk Protection Order is designed to fill a gap in current law. It can be utilized when an individual has moved into crisis, but has not yet committed a crime. It is imperative that we begin discussions about how to provide family members and law enforcement an effective legal tool to help prevent individuals in crisis from harming themselves or others. “The bill we introduce today is a starting point. It’s the place where we begin a long-overdue discussion about firearms and mental health. But we must start. “We look forward to receiving constructive feedback from stakeholders across the political spectrum on how we can utilize this concept, improve upon it where needed, and eventually turn it into law in order to protect lives.” #####
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) tonight made this statement on news regarding North Korea. “After numerous discussions with President Trump, I firmly believe his strong stand against North Korea and its nuclear aggression gives us the best hope in decades to resolve this threat peacefully. “I am not naive. I understand that if the past is an indication of the future, North Korea will be all talk and no action. However, I do believe that North Korea now believes President Trump will use military force if he has to. “A word of warning to North Korean President Kim Jong Un — the worst possible thing you can do is meet with President Trump in person and try to play him. If you do that, it will be the end of you — and your regime.” #####
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON – The South Carolina congressional delegation has requested the highest level of funding possible for the Charleston Harbor Deepening Project in the Fiscal Year 2018 Army Corps Work Plan. The letter was signed by South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, and U.S. Representatives Mark Sanford, Joe Wilson, Jeff Duncan, Trey Gowdy, Ralph Norman, James Clyburn and Tom Rice. “The 52-foot Charleston Harbor Deepening Project is a model of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USACE) SMART Planning process. The project is currently years ahead of schedule and under budget. Local port officials secured an Advanced Project Partnership Agreement (PPA) with the Army Corps of Engineers to allow the use of local funds to cover construction costs in the event of delays in federal funding. However, these local funds will only go so far,” wrote the South Carolina delegation members. They continued, “Collaborative, proactive projects, like the Charleston Port deepening, are in the best interest of American taxpayers and present a great avenue for growing the nation's economy by investing in our infrastructure. That is why we unequivocally support the highest possible funding level for deepening the port in this year's Work Plan. The full text of the letter is below. March 01, 2018 The Honorable R.D. James Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works) 108 Army Pentagon Washington, DC 20310-0108 Lieutenant General Todd T. Semonite Commanding General and Chief of Engineers U.S. Army Corps of Engineers 441 G. Street, NW Washington, DC 20314-1000 Dear Secretary James and General Semonite: As Congress moves to complete the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Appropriations Omnibus, we know that you are also working to finalize the details of the FY 2018 Army Corps' Work Plan. Our hope is that your Work Plan will advocate project funding levels consistent with the Administration's stated goal of prioritizing projects with substantial local or state investment. The Port of Charleston Deepening Project, with $300 million in state-level funding, is clearly the type of project that meets the Administration's objective. The 52-foot Charleston Harbor Deepening Project is a model of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' (USACE) SMART Planning process. The project is currently years ahead of schedule and under budget. Local port officials secured an Advanced Project Partnership Agreement (PPA) with the Army Corps of Engineers to allow the use of local funds to cover construction costs in the event of delays in federal funding. However, these local funds will only go so far. We greatly appreciate the USACE's naming Charleston a new construction start and allocating $17.5 million in the 2017 Work Plan. The Charleston Harbor Deepening project will set a new standard for future projects, demonstrating the effectiveness and success of both the SMART Planning process and committed non-federal entities. The extent to which the Charleston project defines projects moving forward cannot be undervalued. To this end, we respectfully encourage the USACE to include project funding of$90 million in the FY 2018 Work Plan- allowing the Charleston project to stay on time and on budget. Collaborative, proactive projects, like the Charleston Port deepening, are in the best interest of American taxpayers and present a great avenue for growing the nation's economy by investing in our infrastructure. That is why we unequivocally support the highest possible funding level for deepening the port in this year's Work Plan. Thank you for your continued support. We look forward to working with you. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham Tim Scott United States Senator United States Senator Joe Wilson Jeff Duncan Member of Congress Member of Congress Trey Gowdy Mark Sanford Member of Congress Member of Congress Ralph Norman James E. Clyburn Member of Congress Member of Congress Tom Rice Member of Congress
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports of negotiations between North and South Korea in an effort to denuclearize the Korean peninsula. “If there is an agreement reached between the United States, North Korea and the rest of the world regarding the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, the lion’s share of credit will go to President Trump for his strong stand. “President Trump has been steadfast in his commitment to deny the North Korean regime the ability to strike the U.S. with a nuclear weapon. “I hope the strong and unequivocal position by the President will lead to a major breakthrough that would be beneficial to the world at large.” #####
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal (D-CT) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC), members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, announced they are working together on bipartisan legislation to help prevent individuals who are in crisis from accessing deadly weapons. Blumenthal and Graham intend to introduce legislation providing for the expanded use of extreme risk protection orders – also known as “Red Flag” orders. The “Red Flag” process allows law enforcement and family members to petition a court to temporarily restrict access to firearms by individuals deemed to pose an imminent threat to themselves or others. The removal of firearms would be temporary and the affected individual will be afforded due process protections to ensure their Constitutional rights are protected. Indiana, Connecticut, and several other states currently have “Red Flag” laws on the books that allow law enforcement and family members to petition a judge to temporarily restrict an individual’s access to guns. “When law enforcement has solid evidence that someone is in crisis — intensely and imminently a danger — there should be a process for protecting them and the public from the guns they possess or buy. The absence of any federal process to remove guns from such immediately dangerous individuals can have deadly consequences. Senator Graham and I are working on bipartisan legislation to prevent tragedies from occurring by giving law enforcement the tools they need to keep guns out of dangerous hands,” Blumenthal said. “I spoke with Vice President Pence about Indiana’s ‘Red Flag’ provision earlier this week,” said Graham. “It seeks to balance the Second Amendment rights of the individual with concerns from law enforcement and family members about those who may be experiencing a mental health crisis. Senator Blumenthal and I disagree on many issues regarding the Second Amendment, but we strongly agree that restricting access to firearms from those who pose an imminent danger to themselves or others is a strong step forward in protecting public safety. Our government encourages our citizens that if you see something, say something. We also need ‘do something.’ Our goal is to have a system where we can get results which protect lives.” Blumenthal and Graham plan to introduce the legislation next week in the Senate. -30-
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer’s rationale for voting against a nominee, Marvin Quattlebaum, for federal district court judge for South Carolina. “I’ve known Chuck Schumer for years. He is not a racist, but this was an absolutely shameful reason to vote against a very qualified nominee like Marvin Quattlebaum. “This is political correctness run amok. Voting against a highly qualified nominee because of the color of his skin does nothing to bring our country and nation together. Frankly it is a massive step backward. “I judge nominees on the content of their character, not the color of their skin. Chuck Schumer should do the same.” ##### BACKGROUND: Daily Caller: Schumer Will Vote ‘No’ on Nominee Because He is White Senator Schumer on the Nomination: “…the nomination of Marvin Quattlebaum speaks to the overall diversity of President Trump's selections for the judiciary. Mr. Quattlebaum does not replace one, but two scuttled Obama nominees who were African American. 83% of President Trump's were male, 92% were white. That represents the lowest share of nonwhite candidates in three decades. It is long past time that the judiciary starts looking more like the America it represents, having a diversity of views and experience on the federal bench is necessary for the equal administration of justice… I will be voting no on the Quattlebaum nomination.”
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Marvin Quattlebaum being confirmed by the U.S. Senate as a U.S. District Judge for South Carolina. “I’m tremendously pleased and proud that Marvin Quattlebaum received overwhelming support in the U.S. Senate to become a District Court Judge for South Carolina. “Marvin is one of the most qualified lawyers I’ve ever known. He has the perfect disposition to be a federal judge. I want to pass on my congratulations to Marvin, his family and his many friends. I know this is a special day in their life. He will serve South Carolina well in his new position.” #####
02.28.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after attending the Congressional Ceremony honoring the life and works of Reverend Billy Graham. “I am honored to have been present in the Capitol Rotunda for a very moving tribute for the Reverend Billy Graham. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Speaker of the House Paul Ryan, and President Trump did a fantastic job encapsulating the life and works of Reverend Graham. “On behalf of the South Carolinians who could not be in attendance, I spoke with Reverend Graham’s family and passed on our state’s condolences and congratulations on a life well lived. “Billy Graham impacted countless lives. His contributions and legacy will be long-felt in South Carolina, North Carolina, across our nation, and the rest of the world.” #####
02.21.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of Reverend Billy Graham. “One of the greatest messengers of Christ has gone to his heavenly reward. Dr. Graham spread the good news to millions across the world and led a life beyond reproach. “He was a counselor to presidents, a pastor to the masses, and most of all – a loving, caring husband, father, and grandfather. May Dr. Graham rest in peace.” #####
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate votes on immigration. All four proposals were defeated. “It looks like demagogues on the left and the right win again on immigration. “I’m disappointed with today’s outcome in the Senate. I supported all four proposals, including the legislation backed by President Trump. Unfortunately, they all failed to reach the sixty votes necessary to move forward. “I’m very proud of the bipartisan effort (Rounds-King) that would have given President Trump his border wall system money and created a pathway to citizenship for DACA recipients. This two-pillar approach is the best way to deal with phase one of immigration reform. Receiving fifty-four votes for this construct was encouraging. We are not there yet, but we will keep working to build our numbers. “Looking ahead, I continue to believe there is a deal to be had on immigration that gives President Trump many of his priorities on the border and relief for the DACA-eligible population. “I do not believe victory will be achieved by further politicization of this issue. That’s the oldest game in the Swamp – blame the other side. There’s already enough intensity around immigration. “The only way forward is for President Trump to grab the reins and lead us to a solution.” #####
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) responded to a press release from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) regarding a bipartisan immigration reform proposal he is cosponsoring. “With their press release this morning, it seems as if DHS is intent on acting less like a partner and more like an adversary. Instead of offering thoughts and advice – or even constructive criticism – they are acting more like a political organization intent on poisoning the well. “From the tone of this morning’s document, it appears as if DHS hopes all border security proposals fail. That would be the worst outcome of all. “I don’t think the staffers who compiled this document served the President very well. As for Secretary Nielsen, I’m incredibly disappointed in her for allowing her office to become so politicized and for allowing something like this to go out. “Members of Congress, Republicans and Democrats, understand and appreciate the role DHS plays in protecting our nation from threats. We also rely on their advice and technical know-how – particularly when it comes to border security. Statements like this undermine confidence in DHS and make one question whether they can rationally engage with the Congress on this issue. They lost credibility with this release and that’s not good for those of us concerned about protecting our border and making sure DHS has the tools they need to best protect our nation.” #####
02.14.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) introduced the South Carolina Peanut Parity Act, which would put an individual from South Carolina on the Peanut Standards Board at the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Companion legislation was introduced by U.S. Representative Joe Wilson (R-South Carolina) and passed the House of Representatives in October 2017. Graham and Scott noted that even though South Carolina has the fourth largest peanut industry in the country, the state is not represented the Peanut Standards Board. The board, created by the 2002 farm bill, advises USDA on proper standards for peanut quality and handling. “As growers of our state’s official snack, South Carolina peanut farmers deserve a say in matters that affect their livelihood. I’m proud to work with my colleague, Senator Scott, on this important bill to ensure South Carolina’s peanut farmers get adequate representation at USDA,” said Graham. “Ensuring South Carolina peanut farmers have a seat at the table is incredibly important,” Scott said. “I want to thank Senator Graham for working together on this important bill, and I look forward to sharing some South Carolina boiled peanuts with our colleagues when it passes.” #####
02.13.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) spoke with Fox News regarding a recent discovery that Susan Rice sent an email to herself on President Trump’s Inauguration Day. Background: Grassley, Graham Uncover ‘Unusual Email’ Sent By Susan Rice To Herself On President Trump’s Inauguration Day GRAHAM: “I think that it’s [Susan Rice’s email to herself] odd and disturbing, because we know that the investigation regarding the Trump campaign was anything but ‘by the book’.” https://youtu.be/kt1Cm_1rU_E?t=1m56s GRAHAM: “The question is, did President [Obama] know anything about the FISA warrant application? Did Susan Rice know that the warrant application included… a dossier that was political in nature? And that Mr. Steele hated candidate Trump and was trying to do everything he could to beat him? That’s not exactly ‘by the book’.” https://youtu.be/kt1Cm_1rU_E?t=2m46s GRAHAM: “I mean, it’s the oddest thing in the world to send an email to yourself on inauguration day about a conversation held on January 5th, where President [Obama] tells the law enforcement community and the intel community, now when you look at this Russian stuff, you need to do it by the book… Why should he [President Obama] have to say that to begin with?” https://youtu.be/kt1Cm_1rU_E?t=3m55s GRAHAM: “What did Comey say when President [Obama] allegedly told him, I want you to do it by the book? Do you think Comey mentioned to the President that the chief source of information regarding a FISA warrant on Carter Page came from a paid operative from the Democratic Party?” https://youtu.be/kt1Cm_1rU_E?t=5m13s
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today welcomed the support of President Trump in calling for passage of Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson (GCHJ), a proposal that repeals the structure and architecture of Obamacare and replaces it with a block grant given annually to states to help individuals pay for health care. The Trump budget proposal calls for GCHJ to be enacted “as soon as possible.” It also states, “The president is committed to rescuing states, consumers and taxpayers form the failures of Obamacare, and supporting states as they transition to more sustainable healthcare programs that provide appropriate choices for their citizens.” Graham-Cassidy removes the decisions from Washington and gives states significant latitude over how the dollars are used to best take care of the unique health care needs of the patients in each state. Graham said: “I’m glad to see there is no quit in President Trump when it comes to replacing Obamacare with the state-centered block grant known as Graham-Cassidy. “I’m pleased President Trump is showing the same determination to repeal and replace Obamacare that President Obama did to pass it into law. “It is now time for Republicans – and some Democrats – to rally around Graham-Cassidy. “My goal is to get money and power out of Washington and give it back to patients and states for better health care outcomes.” ##### Background: Washington Examiner: Trump budget pushes Graham-Cassidy Obamacare repeal bill The Hill: Trump budget seeks savings through Obamacare repeal
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON – As part of their continued efforts to conduct oversight of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the Department of Justice (DOJ), Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Chairman of the Senate Judiciary’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) discovered a partially unclassified email sent by President Obama’s former National Security Advisor (NSA) Susan Rice to herself on January 20, 2017 – President Trump’s inauguration day. Ambassador Rice appears to have used this email to document a January 5, 2017 Oval Office meeting between President Obama, former FBI Director James Comey and former Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates regarding Russian interference in the 2016 Presidential election. In particular, Ambassador Rice wrote: “President Obama began the conversation by stressing his continued commitment to ensuring that every aspect of this issue is handled by the Intelligence and law enforcement communities ‘by the book’. The President stressed that he is not asking about, initiating or instructing anything from a law enforcement perspective. He reiterated that our law enforcement team needs to proceed as it normally would by the book.” Grassley and Graham were struck by the context and timing of this email, and sent a follow up letter to Ambassador Rice. The letter reads in part: “It strikes us as odd that, among your activities in the final moments on the final day of the Obama administration, you would feel the need to send yourself such an unusual email purporting to document a conversation involving President Obama and his interactions with the FBI regarding the Trump/Russia investigation. In addition, despite your claim that President Obama repeatedly told Mr. Comey to proceed ‘by the book,’ substantial questions have arisen about whether officials at the FBI, as well as at the Justice Department and the State Department, actually did proceed ‘by the book.’” Grassley and Graham have asked Ambassador Rice to answer a set of questions by February 22, 2018 so the committee may further assess the situation. The full text of their letter is below. ##### February 8, 2018 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Susan Rice Senior Fellow, Belfer Center Harvard University 79 John F. Kennedy Street Cambridge, MA 02138 c/o Kathryn Ruemmler, Esq. Latham and Watkins LLP 555 Eleventh Street NW Washington, DC 20004 Dear Ambassador Rice: The Senate Judiciary Committee has a constitutional duty to conduct oversight of the FBI and the broader Department of Justice. Part of that duty involves ensuring that law enforcement efforts are conducted without improper political influence. Accordingly, the Committee has been investigating the FBI’s relationship with Christopher Steele during the time his work was funded by Hillary for America and the Democratic National Committee, as well as the FBI’s reliance on his unverified third-hand allegations in the Bureau’s representations to courts. As part of that effort, the Committee sent a request to the National Archives for records of meetings between President Obama and then-FBI Director Comey regarding the FBI’s investigation of allegations of collusion between associates of Mr. Trump and the Russian government. In response, the Committee received classified and unclassified versions of an email you sent to yourself on January 20, 2017 – President Trump’s inauguration day. If the timestamp is correct, you sent this email to yourself at 12:15pm, presumably a very short time before you departed the White House for the last time. In this email to yourself, you purport to document a meeting that had taken place more than two weeks before, on January 5, 2017. You wrote: On January 5, following a briefing by IC leadership on Russian hacking during the 2016 Presidential election, President Obama had a brief follow-on conversation with FBI Director Jim Comey and Deputy Attorney General Sally Yates in the Oval Office. Vice President Biden and I were also present. That meeting reportedly included a discussion of the Steele dossier and the FBI’s investigation of its claims.[1] Your email continued: President Obama began the conversation by stressing his continued commitment to ensuring that every aspect of this issue is handled by the Intelligence and law enforcement communities “by the book”. The President stressed that he is not asking about, initiating or instructing anything from a law enforcement perspective. He reiterated that our law enforcement team needs to proceed as it normally would by the book. From a national security perspective, however, President Obama said he wants to be sure that, as we engage with the incoming team, we are mindful to ascertain if there is any reason that we cannot share information fully as it relates to Russia. The next part of your email remains classified. After that, you wrote: The President asked Comey to inform him if anything changes in the next few weeks that should affect how we share classified information with the incoming team. Comey said he would. It strikes us as odd that, among your activities in the final moments on the final day of the Obama administration, you would feel the need to send yourself such an unusual email purporting to document a conversation involving President Obama and his interactions with the FBI regarding the Trump/Russia investigation. In addition, despite your claim that President Obama repeatedly told Mr. Comey to proceed “by the book,” substantial questions have arisen about whether officials at the FBI, as well as at the Justice Department and the State Department, actually did proceed “by the book.” In order for the Committee to further assess the situation, please respond to the following by February 22, 2018: Did you send the email attached to this letter to yourself? Do you have any reason to dispute the timestamp of the email? When did you first become aware of the FBI’s investigation into allegations of collusion between Mr. Trump’s associates and Russia? When did you become aware of any surveillance activities, including FISA applications, undertaken by the FBI in conducting that investigation? At the time you wrote this email to yourself, were you aware of either the October 2016 FISA application for surveillance of Carter Page or the January 2017 renewal? Did anyone instruct, request, suggest, or imply that you should send yourself the aforementioned Inauguration Day email memorializing President Obama’s meeting with Mr. Comey about the Trump/Russia investigation? If so, who and why? Is the account of the January 5, 2017 meeting presented in your email accurate? Did you omit any other portions of the conversation? Other than that email, did you document the January 5, 2017 meeting in any way, such as contemporaneous notes or a formal memo? To the best of your knowledge, did anyone else at that meeting take notes or otherwise memorialize the meeting? During the meeting, did Mr. Comey or Ms. Yates mention potential press coverage of the Steele dossier? If so, what did they say? During the meeting, did Mr. Comey describe the status of the FBI’s relationship with Mr. Steele, or the basis for that status? When and how did you first become aware of the allegations made by Christopher Steele? When and how did you first become aware that the Clinton Campaign and the Democratic National Committee funded Mr. Steele’s efforts? You wrote that President Obama stressed that he was “not asking about, initiating or instructing anything from a law enforcement perspective.” Did President Obama ask about, initiate, or instruct anything from any other perspective relating to the FBI’s investigation? Did President Obama have any other meetings with Mr. Comey, Ms. Yates, or other government officials about the FBI’s investigation of allegations of collusion between Trump associates and Russia? If so, when did these occur, who participated, and what was discussed? Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter. Please contact Patrick Davis of Chairman Grassley’s staff at (202) 224-5225 or Lee Holmes of Chairman Graham’s staff at (202) 224-5972 if you have any questions. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Lindsey O. Graham Chairman Chairman Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Committee on the Judiciary Enclosure: as stated. cc: The Honorable Dianne Feinstein Ranking Member Committee on the Judiciary The Honorable Sheldon Whitehouse Ranking Member Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Committee on the Judiciary [1] See Evan Perez, Jim Sciutto, Jake Tapper, Intel Chiefs Presented Trump With Claims of Russian Efforts to Compromise Him, CNN (Jan. 12, 2017) (the IC briefings of President Obama and then-President Elect Trump included the Steele dossier); Josh Lederman, Biden: Intel Officials Told Us Trump Allegations Might Leak, The Associated Press (Jan. 12, 2017) (Vice President Biden told reporters: “It surprised me in that it made it to the point where the agency, the FBI thought they had to pursue it.”)
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON – Last night, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) spoke on the Senate floor about the importance of rebuilding the military and passing the budget agreement. GRAHAM: “This is what [Secretary of Defense] General Mattis says: ‘Let me be clear. As hard as the last sixteen years of war have been on our military, no enemy in the field has done as much harm to the readiness of the U.S. military than the combined impact of the Budget Control Act, defense spending caps, worsened by operating for ten of the last eleven years under continuing resolutions of varied and unpredictable duration.’” https://youtu.be/BgsVSmX_kzw?t=1m26s GRAHAM: “So I want to congratulate President Trump for keeping his campaign promise to rebuild the military.” https://youtu.be/BgsVSmX_kzw?t=2m10s GRAHAM: “Sequestration did not get us out of debt. Fixing sequestration is not going to add to the debt in any serious way.” https://youtu.be/BgsVSmX_kzw?t=6m17s GRAHAM: “To the members of the body: …While I respect how you vote, I just don’t know how you go to the military and explain your vote, if you vote no [on this budget agreement]. How do you tell those in uniform, who are getting by under incredibly difficult conditions because they don’t have the money to train and be ready? They’re in a hot war. What do you tell them?” https://youtu.be/BgsVSmX_kzw?t=8m7s
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Dick Durbin (D-Illinois), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Ben Cardin (D-Maryland) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) introduced the Cambodia Accountability and Return on Investment (CARI) Act of 2018. The CARI Act restricts assistance to the Cambodian government due to actions taken as it relates to regional security, enforcement of sanctions against North Korea, and efforts to protect the rights and responsibilities enshrined in the Cambodian constitution including the immediate release of opposition leader Kem Sokha and jailed journalists and other activists. The legislation requires continued implementation of the visa denial policy imposed in December 2017 until free and fair parliamentary elections have taken place, and provides for the freezing of assets of any individual captured by that policy. “Democracy is dead in Cambodia today because the Cambodian government is under the influence and control of China,” said Senator Lindsey Graham. “The Cambodia Accountability and Return on Investment (CARI) Act I introduced with my colleagues builds on the State Department’s forceful response to China’s attempts to colonize that country. To the people of Cambodia: The U.S. continues to stand with you and your aspirations for a country that is firmly rooted in democracy and the rule of law, as envisioned in the 1991 Paris Peace Agreement.” “The United States has invested heavily in helping Cambodia build a more peaceful, democratic, and stable nation,” said Senator Dick Durbin. “The current government has squandered every opportunity to improve the lives of its people—focusing instead on maintaining their own grip on power. Dissolving the main opposition party marked the end of democracy in Cambodia and robbed the people of their right to choose their leaders. America must send a message that the cowardly repression of political opposition and civil society is unacceptable and must stop.” “This legislation is an appropriate response to Hun Sen's protracted tyranny and unrelenting destruction of democracy in Cambodia,” Senator Ted Cruz said. “Kem Sokha remains imprisoned with the opposition party dismantled. How the United States responds to this authoritarian ploy will carry implications throughout the region. Hun Sen and his patrons in Beijing should not underestimate America's resolve to preserve democracy in Cambodia and Asia.” “This legislation sends the right signal that the United States will stand up for democratic principles like free and fair elections and free press and civil society in Cambodia,” said Senator Ben Cardin. “The United States has no interest in seeing our support in Cambodia end with an entrenched and abusive autocratic ruler in power.” “The United States, having invested so much in Cambodia’s reconstruction and development, cannot stand idly by as its nascent democratic institutions are systematically dismantled, fundamental freedoms are denied, and the opposition is locked away and silenced,” said Senator Patrick Leahy. “Our legislation sends a message to the Cambodian government that there is a cost to suppressing the rights of the people.” The CARI Act also requires U.S. executive directors of each international financial institution to oppose assistance to Cambodia until free and fair elections have taken place. Further, it authorizes counter influence programs to highlight China’s uniquely destructive role in that country during the 1970s, serving as a stark reminder to the Cambodian people that history should not repeat itself. #####
02.09.2018	
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the budget agreement announced today in Washington. The agreement would dramatically boost funding for the military, which has been a top priority for Graham. He has long argued the impact of sequestration – passed under President Obama – would hurt the readiness and capability of our military. “The details of the budget agreement that Senator McConnell briefed me on is great news for our men and women in uniform. Without a doubt, it’s the best news for our military in recent years. “The defense spending increase is significant and will go a long way to repairing the damage done by sequestration. It provides for training, equipment, and a larger military. It goes a long way toward helping fulfill President Trump’s promise to rebuild our military. “This is a long-overdue and much-needed change. The most important dollars our nation spends are those directed to ensuring the safety and security of the American people. “The increases in non-defense spending were necessary to get a budget agreement. However, they will also help protect the Department of Homeland Security, the FBI and others who are on front lines in battling threats against our nation. “Hats off to Senators McConnell and Schumer for working toward this agreement. I look forward to supporting its passage in the Senate and helping to rebuild the United States military.” #####
02.02.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the release of House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence memo. “The American people now have some context for what they have been reading in the press for months, including some of which served as the basis of the criminal referral of Mr. Steele made by Senator Grassley and me. Through my service on the Senate Judiciary Committee I have been investigating this matter for months and will continue to do so. On Mr. Steele: “I have grave concerns that in compiling the dossier, Mr. Steele could have been easily manipulated by Russian intelligence services given his zeal and political bias against then-candidate Donald Trump. “It’s unsettling to me that Mr. Steele was being paid by the Democratic Party and Clinton campaign yet it appears his dossier – which to this day remains substantially unverified -- may have been used by the FBI without sufficient scrutiny. “All the while, Mr. Steele was shopping the same document to media outlets and other sources throughout the world for political purposes. “There remains much about the actions taken by Mr. Steele that concerns me and I want these matters fully investigated. “You can be an FBI informant. You can be a political operative. But you can’t be both – particularly at the same time. On the Memo, Response and Path Forward: “Finally, nothing in the memo released today undercuts Mr. Mueller’s investigation. “I agree with Speaker Ryan this memo should not be construed as an attack on the FBI or DOJ as institutions. In addition, Mr. Steele’s work product was one piece of a larger puzzle as it relates to Mr. Page and others. I expect the Democratic memo in response will likely provide further context. “Going forward, I believe we must do two things at once – allow Mr. Mueller to do his job and appoint a second special counsel to look at potential abuses by some members of the Department of Justice and FBI regarding the Clinton email investigation and early stages of Russia investigation. “We should never lose sight of the fact the FBI is made up of hard-working Americans who put their lives on the line to protect our nation and the Department of Justice is made up of dedicated public servants who believe in the Rule of Law. If some bad elements within those agencies have acted inappropriately, they will be held to account.” #####
02.01.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports that Congressional Republican leaders plan to abandon efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare. “If reports are accurate that the GOP leadership in Congress is giving up on the Republican promise to repeal and replace Obamacare with a more efficient health care system, then we deserve to lose. “Most Americans understand Obamacare is failing them and expect the Republican majority to do its best to replace this disaster. “When it comes to replacing Obamacare, there is no bipartisan path forward. All Democrats reject replacement and will insist on continuing Obamacare through repairs. Virtually all Republicans believe Obamacare cannot be fixed and must be replaced. I will not engage in a process that props up Obamacare because it cannot be repaired. It must be replaced. “To believe that we can simply repeal the individual mandate and stop there is very naïve. The block grant approach will stop our nation’s march toward a single payer health care plan run by the federal government, and replace it with a federalist approach that will allow states to design innovative health care delivery systems. “I am not deterred by these reports. On the contrary, I am more determined than ever to move forward with this block grant proposal and deliver health care that works for the American people." #####
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after House Oversight Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy (R-South Carolina) announced his retirement. “Trey’s decision not to seek reelection is a body blow to the House of Representatives, the conservative cause, and the people of South Carolina. “Seldom has a Member of Congress made such a difference in so many ways -- in a relatively short period of time -- as Trey Gowdy. He is one of the most articulate advocates for the conservative cause and does so with humility and joy. “His accomplishments are too numerous to list, but I believe his biggest legacy is how he balanced passion and kindness. I can say without hesitation Trey Gowdy is a true role model for public servants. “As his friend, I will miss the regular interaction in Washington, D.C. and back home in South Carolina. However, I’m sure this decision is welcome news for his family. I know Trey will continue to contribute in many different ways for years to come.” #####
01.29.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after his legislation – the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act – did not receive the 60 votes necessary to move forward in the U.S. Senate. The vote was 51-46. The House of Representatives passed companion legislation in October 2017 and President Trump has pledged to sign it into law when it passes Congress. Graham’s bill would prohibit abortion after 20 weeks—the point at which scientific evidence shows that unborn children can feel pain. The United States is currently one of only seven countries in the world that permit elective abortion after 20 weeks. “We didn’t win the vote today, but we won hearts and minds. “For more than three hours we debated on the floor of the Senate whether our great nation should end abortion on demand after 20 weeks. “The arguments made on our behalf by my colleagues – including Senators Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) and Deb Fischer (R-Nebraska) – were powerful and compelling. The arguments made against rang hollow. “I have not given up this fight and I hope you will not either. Together we must press on and continue pushing for protection of the unborn. “Today’s vote represents real progress for the pro-life movement. The more we discuss this matter, the more support we get from the American people. Similar to the fight to pass the Partial Birth Abortion Ban Act and the Unborn Victims of Violence Act, it’s only a matter of time until we secure the votes to pass the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. “I truly believe that an overwhelming majority of the American people do not want our country to allow abortion in the fifth month of pregnancy. It’s a sad fact that the United States remains one of only seven nations that allows abortion on demand in the fifth month of pregnancy. I intend to keep pushing for this legislation to become law so that the United States can get out of this infamous ‘Club of Seven’. “I’d like to thank Leader McConnell for allowing this important legislation to be debated and voted on. If Republicans did not have the majority it would never have happened. “Finally, while today was a small setback, I have no doubt that we will eventually be victorious.” #####
01.26.2018	WASHINGTON – As part of their ongoing oversight efforts to ensure that the FBI’s law enforcement activities are free of improper political influence, Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) yesterday sent six letters seeking information and documents regarding Christopher Steele’s work on behalf of the Democratic National Committee and Hillary for America. The letters seek information and documents relating to those political organizations’ knowledge of and involvement in Mr. Steele’s work and his reported interactions with the FBI while he was working on behalf of these political organizations. The letters were sent to: - The Democratic National Committee (DNC) - Hillary for America (HFA) - Former DNC Chair Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz - Former DNC Chair Donna Brazile - HFA Chair John Podesta - HFA Chief Strategist Joel Benenson ###
01.24.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after reports that President Trump supports a path to citizenship for DACA recipients in 10-12 years. “This statement represents presidential leadership on immigration that will allow us to solve a difficult problem. I truly appreciate President Trump making it clear that he supports a path to citizenship for DACA recipients. This will greatly help the Senate efforts to craft a proposal which President Trump can sign into law. “President Trump’s support for a pathway to citizenship will help us get strong border security measures as we work to modernize a broken immigration system. With this strong statement by President Trump, I have never felt better about our chances of finding a solution on immigration. “President Obama tried and couldn’t fix immigration. President Bush tried and couldn’t do it. I believe President Trump can. Today’s DACA recipients can be tomorrow’s Trump Dreamers. “Finally with this statement we are on track to solving the immigration problem which is the political key to rebuilding our military.” #####
01.24.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement following a bipartisan immigration meeting with his Senate colleagues. “I am extremely pleased with the number of senators – from both sides of the aisle – who accepted my invitation to meet in the Senate Armed Services Committee (SASC) room. The purpose of this meeting is to find a process that will allow the Senate to find its voice on immigration before the February 8 deadline. “The SASC hearing room was chosen for a purpose – to remind us that the task ahead goes way beyond immigration. In fact, one of the most important issues that remains on my agenda is ensuring we meet the needs of our men and women in uniform who continue to be hurt by continuing resolutions and sequestration. “On immigration, I have been discussing with my friend and colleague, Senator Alexander, a way the Senate can find its voice in order to secure our border and deal with the DACA population. As I’ve learned from experience – if immigration were easy to fix, we would have solved the problem a long time ago. “Under our proposal, all bipartisan solutions on immigration – whether securing the border, addressing chain migration or the visa lottery, providing a solution to the status of DACA recipients, or other – would be submitted to Senators Cornyn and Durbin. “In addition to being the Majority and Minority Whips, they are the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Immigration Subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee, and have earned the confidence of their colleagues. They also have a deep understanding of immigration and have been working on this issue for more than a decade. Senators Cornyn and Durbin have agreed to act as a clearinghouse for bipartisan proposals. “My hope is that we can reach an agreement before February 8. However, if we fail, this process would allow the Senate Majority Leader some understanding of what a neutral vehicle would look like in terms of starting the floor debate. But ultimately, the decision remains with the Majority Leader and I’m hopeful we can come to agreement before that point. “I truly appreciate the willingness of Senators Cornyn and Durbin to lead this effort and the willingness of a large number of senators to be an active part of this process. “Senators Collins and Manchin will continue to host bipartisan meetings – as they did over the weekend – to find a way forward on immigration, including addressing border security and DACA recipients. We have created a process for input. The goal is to create an output that’s good for America. “Finally, when it comes to immigration, the path of least resistance is to do nothing and look the other way. But doing nothing and looking the other way actually created the mess we find ourselves in today. We cannot do that any longer.” #####
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after casting a vote to end the federal government shutdown. The legislation passed today by the Senate was first proposed by Senator Graham on Friday night after consulting with a bipartisan group of Senators. “Ending the government shutdown stops the losing for the country. But it’s not winning. Winning is solving the nation’s problems. “Winning is ensuring we have the funding needed for our military to meet the tremendous challenges they face. Nothing means more to me than making sure we take care of our military’s needs as they fight a war we can’t afford to lose. Today, we took a giant step forward in that direction. “Winning is ensuring we have a process in place to deal with expiration of DACA, as these young people know no other home than the United States. “I believe the process we have created will allow us to get a result on these and other important issues. I enjoyed working with my colleagues – on both sides of the aisle – as we searched for breakthroughs that would not only keep the government running, but ultimately make it work for the American people.” #####
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “Leader McConnell mentioned last night he was willing to make a proposal for a CR through February 8 and seek resolution on immigration, disaster relief, military and government funding, CHIP, and other health care related issues. I would support such a proposal. “I also agree with Senator McConnell we are close to a resolution on all these issues. “After extensive discussions with Senators, on both sides of the aisle, I believe such a proposal would pass if it was understood that after February 8, the Senate would move to an immigration debate with an open amendment process if no agreement has been reached with the White House and House of Representatives. “This will guarantee the Border Security/DACA issue will be brought forward with an open amendment process for resolution no later than February 8th. I’m confident we can find a solution to Border Security/DACA once we start the process. Success on this will lead to a breakthrough on all other issues. “After my discussions with numerous senators on both sides of the aisle last night it is clear to me a commitment to move to immigration after February 8th is the key to ending the government shutdown and finding resolution on all the outstanding issues. “However, having the time only matters if there is the will to get the job done. General Mattis’s statement yesterday that defense cuts and continuing resolutions have done more damage to the American military than any enemy on the battlefield was very sobering. Military necessity —combined with the reality that DACA recipient lives will soon be turned upside down — provides the incentive for Congress to get it right once and for all. “In light of these realities, I’m hopeful there will be overwhelming bipartisan support for the February 8 proposal.” #####
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “My underlying goal in this debate has been to find solution and to provide sufficient time to reach agreement on our shared goals of increasing defense spending; resolving the status of the Dreamers and increasing border security; guaranteeing funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program and other health care programs; and providing disaster relief. “Given the Congressional calendar and logistics of passing legislation, I believe that we will need a CR that runs past the week of the State of the Union. In consultation with the Leaders and the White House, I believe that a CR through February 8th is necessary in order to work toward our shared goals, while providing sufficient urgency in these discussions. “After lengthy consultations with senators from both parties, I believe no one wants the government to shut down. I also believe that we are inside the ten yard line on finding solutions on all issues previously described including immigration. “General Mattis’s statement today about the damage defense cuts and CRs are having on our military was very sobering. I have full confidence that we will be able to respond in a bipartisan manner to the General’s call to action to help our military. “There is also a lot of bipartisan support for a permanent and fair solution for the Dreamers as well as a realization that we need a more secure border. “February 8th provides us the time only if we have the will. I believe the will exists; so I intend to give the time.?” ####
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), James Lankford (R-Oklahoma), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Steve Daines (R-Montana) and Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) have delivered a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell requesting that he schedule a vote on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. The senators noted the legislation would prohibit abortion after 20 weeks—the point at which scientific evidence shows that unborn children can feel pain. The United States is currently one of only seven countries in the world that permit elective abortion after 20 weeks. Polling numbers consistently show that the majority of Americans support a ban on abortion at this stage of pregnancy; these Americans no longer want to keep the company of countries like China and North Korea. The full text of the letter is below. Tomorrow, hundreds of thousands of Americans from across the country will gather in Washington to take part in the 45th Annual March for Life. To coincide with the march, we write to respectfully request that you publicly announce your plans for a Senate vote on S. 2311, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. As you know, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would prohibit abortion after 20 weeks—the point at which scientific evidence shows that unborn children can feel pain. The United States is currently one of only seven countries in the world that permit elective abortion after 20 weeks. Polling numbers consistently show that the majority of Americans support a ban on abortion at this stage of pregnancy; these Americans no longer want to keep the company of countries like China and North Korea. Twenty states have already passed legislation protecting unborn children beginning at 20 weeks of pregnancy. As pro-life marchers from every corner of our nation come to Washington this week, it is important that we announce a vote on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. A vote would make our constituents immediately aware of the members of Congress who support elective late-term abortions and oppose extending legal protection to pain-capable unborn children nationwide. Enclosed please find a letter from the leaders of pro-life organizations who represent millions of individuals and families across the country, voicing their support for a vote on this bill. We are all grateful for your pro-life leadership, and we look forward to seeing the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act receive consideration on the Senate floor soon. #####
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “Everyone is convinced they’ll win – but in reality, nobody wins in a government shutdown. The ‘blame game’ makes for great Washington theater, but doesn’t serve the needs of the nation. “Our military – which desperately needs additional funding as they are already scraping by – doesn’t win. The American people who expect the government to be functioning and operating don’t win. And cynicism about the ability of Congress and the President to solve our nation’s problems increases even further. “Simply put, there’s no reason to shut the government down and no reason to continue this chaos for the next 30 days. Continuing resolutions are devastating to our military. As General Mattis said this morning, no enemy in the field has done more to harm the readiness of the U.S. military than the combination of defense spending cuts and continuing resolutions. He’s exactly right. “We could easily pass a continuing resolution – which lasts days (certainly more than the four proposed by the Senate Minority Leader) and less than the 30 days passed by the House of Representatives – to close the deal on outstanding issues which remain. “It’s time Congress stop the cycle of dysfunction, grow up, and act consistent with the values of a great nation. The White House should engage and lead us to a solution. “We are inside the 10 yard line on a lot of major issues – military spending, government spending, CHIP, stabilizing insurance markets, disaster relief, and Phase I immigration reform. “The U.S. military has to work to accomplish their objectives. They don’t get to point fingers or pass the buck. Congress could learn a lot from them and learn to get the job done regardless who gets the credit, or in this case, the blame.” #####
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “I am not going to support continuing this fiasco for 30 more days by voting for a continuing resolution. “It’s time Congress stop the cycle of dysfunction, grow up, and act consistent with the values of a great nation. “We need additional funding for our military – which is desperately in need of an infusion. We also need some direction about the path forward for 800,000 DACA recipients who know no home other than the United States. The American people want us to deal with BOTH issues sooner rather than later. “When it comes to helping the military I will do whatever it takes to get them the help they desperately need. Sequestration has been madness. I intend to do what is necessary to fix sequestration. To those who supported it – you have done a lot of damage to our men and women in uniform. You should want to fix it and I’ll work with anyone and everyone to get a result which benefits our troops. “Americans in uniform are serving overseas in conditions – jungles, deserts, mountains, and more – that we cannot begin to imagine in Washington. All the while Congress acts like children urging all to rally around partisan flags and not the American flag which they serve. “My focus is not on pleasing a bunch of partisans. My focus is on delivering for soldiers in the field and fixing problems which face our nation – like the impending upheaval to the lives of 800,000 DACA recipients. People in South Carolina and across the nation deserve nothing less.” #####
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today welcomed the support of Republican Senators Susan Collins (R-Maine), Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), and Mike Rounds (R-South Dakota) for a path forward on DACA and immigration reform. They will join Republicans Graham, Jeff Flake (R-Arizona) and Cory Gardner (R-Colorado) in backing this measure and working to protect Dreamers. “It’s imperative that Congress act quickly so that young people who were brought to the United States as children, through no decision of their own, can stop living in fear of deportation. I have talked with Dreamers living in Maine who have grown up in our State and have known no other country as their home,” said Senator Collins. “This issue transcends political divisions, with members of both parties expressing sympathy for the Dreamers and support for a legislative solution. I am proud to join this growing bipartisan group of leaders in advancing this important effort that will fairly address the needs of the DACA population, strengthen border security, and help improve our immigration system.” “President Trump and the bipartisan members of Congress who met at the White House ought to be able to agree on a proposal that both secures our borders and provides a solution for DACA recipients,” said Senator Alexander. “I intend to support such an agreement which is why I’m cosponsoring the Graham proposal as a starting point for reaching consensus and will support other responsible proposals.” “I am proud to be a part of this bipartisan solution for the Dreamers,” said Senator Murkowski. “We should not punish children for the actions of their parents. Those who were brought to this country by their parents, were raised here, educated here, lived here, and dreamed here, should be welcomed to stay here. They should have the right to work and a path to citizenship. Fulfilling that dream renews our American Dream. I have consistently cosponsored legislation to provide just that, and I am heartened to see so many diverse voices supporting a legislative solution for the Dreamers.” “I thank Senator Graham and others for their commitment to strengthening border security and fixing our broken immigration system,” said Senator Rounds. “The current proposal is an important first step in more immigration reform that secures our borders and transitions to a merit-based system. Legal immigration is a proud part of our nation’s history, and today it plays an important role in our economy – including South Dakota’s own workforce which depends on temporary, H2B visa workers to fill jobs during the busy tourism and construction seasons. While this bill is not perfect, I will continue to work on a product that includes appropriate e-verify provisions, a stronger border security system and lays the framework for more reform, including work visas. These are the provisions required for me to support the bill in final form so we can get to the next phase, in which permanently increasing the cap of H2B visas will be a top priority for me.” “I’m very pleased that our bipartisan proposal continues to gain support among my Republican colleagues,” said Senator Graham. “Our hope is to bring forward a proposal that leads to a solution the President can embrace. The goal is to begin fixing a broken immigration system by fairly dealing with the DACA population, securing our border, and moving toward a merit-based immigration system. This proposal would receive wide support and is a good solution for Phase I as we move to Phase II, comprehensive immigration reform. As we debate how to fix a broken immigration system and who to allow to become an American, we must not change what it means to be an American. As I’ve always said, America is an idea defined by its ideals – not by its people. The idea of self-determination and freedom to speak one’s mind, to worship God as you see fit, and to be served by the government – not the other way around. I believe there is bipartisan support for that concept.” Highlights of the bipartisan proposal include: At Least Ten Years Before a Dreamer Can Become an American Citizen: It would be at least ten years before a Dreamer can become an American citizen. The legislation calls for a 12-year waiting period, but select Dreamers who registered for DACA could earn up to two years credit for time. Dreamers – who do not receive any federal assistance or welfare today – will likely continue to be ineligible for welfare and federal assistance for the first five years they have legal status. The current Diversity Visa Lottery will be abolished, and a new merit-based immigration system instituted in its place. Half of the Diversity Lottery visas would be allocated to a new system for ‘priority countries’ who are currently underrepresented in visa allocation. A new merit-based system would ensure those visas are awarded to those most ready to succeed in the United States. The other half of the visas would be allocated to recipients of Temporary Protected Status (TPS). After the TPS backlog is cleared, all of the former Diversity Lottery visas will be allocated to nationals of priority countries under the new, merit-based system. Additional Border Security Measures: The proposal contains $2.7 billion in border security improvements, including the planning, design, and construction of a border wall and additional surveillance and technology along the border. There will also be several provisions from border security pieces of legislation related to border infrastructure and Customs and Border Protection operations and oversight. Down Payment on Chain Migration: Parents of Dreamers would be eligible for 3-year renewable work permits. There are no new pathways for them to obtain American citizenship. If they brought a child who becomes a beneficiary of the Dream Act into the country, they would be ineligible to be sponsored for lawful permanent residence or citizenship by any of their children. Additionally, lawful permanent residents would only be able to sponsor their nuclear family members, their spouses and unmarried children under the age of 21. ##### Read a summary of the Immigration Reform Act of 2018 here.
01.15.2018	WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after addressing the Columbia Urban League celebration on the life and works of Dr. Martin Luther King. The event was held at Brookland Baptist Church in West Columbia, South Carolina.. “I very much welcomed and appreciated the opportunity to address the annual Columbia Urban League celebration honoring the life and works of Dr. Martin Luther King. JT McLawhorn and his entire team at the Urban League do a terrific job for South Carolina. “We honor Dr. King because he gave his life for a worthy cause which was to make America a more socially just place. At a time of great discord, he was a true fighter for social justice who believed in the potential of America. He focused on changing individual hearts and minds, not just institutions. Dr. King’s vision for our country was best summed up by the quote — we may have all come on different ships but we are in the same boat now. The best way to honor Dr. King’s work is for America to always moving forward and never go back. “Today, I reiterated my view of what it means to be an American. Our country is not made up of a particular group of people or religion. It’s an idea that the government is there to serve the people — not the other way around. We collectively buy into the ideals of freedom of speech, right to choose our leaders, speak our minds, and worship God on our terms. We truly are a collection of different backgrounds that have created something very special. Diversity remains a strength of our nation, not a weakness. As we go forward to solve the problems of our time, we would all be well-served to remember the life and teachings of Dr. King. Hs words ring as true today as ever.” #####
01.12.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on DACA. “Yesterday Senator Durbin and I met with President Trump at the White House to discuss our bipartisan proposal on border security and immigration. “Following comments by the President, I said my piece directly to him yesterday. The President and all those attending the meeting know what I said and how I feel. I’ve always believed that America is an idea, not defined by its people but by its ideals. “The American ideal is embraced by people all over the globe. It was best said a long time ago, E Pluribus Unum – Out of Many, One. Diversity has always been our strength, not our weakness. In reforming immigration we cannot lose these American Ideals. “The American people will ultimately judge us on the outcome we achieve, not the process which led to it. “I know the bipartisan proposal discussed at the White House can get a lot of support from both sides. As always, I look forward to considering additional ideas that could make the proposal even better. “I appreciate Senator Durbin’s statements and have enjoyed working with him and many others on this important issue. I believe it is vitally important to come to a bipartisan solution to the immigration and border challenges we face today. I am committed to working with Republicans and Democrats to find common ground so we can move forward.” ####
01.11.2018	WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Dick Durbin (D-IL), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Michael Bennet (D-CO), Cory Gardner (R-CO), and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) released the following statement after reaching a bipartisan agreement on immigration: "President Trump called on Congress to solve the DACA challenge. We have been working for four months and have reached an agreement in principle that addresses border security, the diversity visa lottery, chain migration/family reunification, and the Dream Act—the areas outlined by the President. We are now working to build support for that deal in Congress." ###
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON – In light of evidence that U.S. federal agencies have granted an excessive number of waivers to Buy American laws in the last few years, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has cosponsored the BuyAmerican.gov Act. The bipartisan legislation establishes a centralized online hub to increase transparency and ensure federal agencies prioritize the purchase of American-made goods in compliance with existing laws. In the last five years, U.S federal agencies have spent $47.7 billion on goods manufactured by foreign firms. The Department of Defense (DoD), the largest purchaser of manufactured goods in the world, has spent almost $200 billion on manufactured goods made by foreign companies since 2007. At the same time, the United States has been shedding manufacturing jobs that could have been kept in the U.S. In addition to creating the BuyAmerican.gov website, the bipartisan bill codifies President Trump’s Buy American Executive Order and requires agencies to report on the implementation of, and compliance with, Buy American laws. “We streamline procurement and bring transparency to the process,” said Graham. “These important changes will bring a much-need system of checks-and-balances to the current waiver process. I am excited to work with President Trump and my colleagues in the Senate to make sure manufacturers in South Carolina and across the United States are prioritized when it comes to the bidding and awarding of contracts.” Graham noted that under current law, federal agencies may use domestic content waivers to Buy American laws to purchase goods or services from foreign companies only in certain circumstances: for example, when an American-made good is unavailable or will significantly increase the cost of a product. However, federal agencies overuse this waiver authority. There is currently no government-wide system tracking the use and abuse of these waivers by federal agencies. The new BuyAmerican.gov Act would direct the General Services Administration to establish a central, publicly-available website, called BuyAmerican.gov, to collect and display information about each requested waiver to Buy American laws. This new website will allow manufacturers and other interested parties to identify contract opportunities and hold federal agencies accountable for abusing Buy American waivers. The bill is cosponsored by Senators Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Chris Murphy (D-Connecticut), and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio). ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement following a bipartisan immigration meeting at the White House. “This was the most fascinating meeting I’ve been involved with in twenty plus years in politics. I very much appreciate President Trump’s attitude, demeanor, and desire to get something done that will make our nation more secure – while being fair to the Dreamers. “President Trump has the right attitude. Now it is up to all of us in Congress to come up with a proposal that gets the job done. “The American people overwhelmingly want better border security, a more modern immigration system, and to allow the Dreamers a new and better life. All we have to do is listen to the American people and enact their wishes. I hope and pray we can get that done.” #####
01.05.2018	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Chairman Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) referred the author of the “Trump Dossier,” Christopher Steele, to the Justice Department for investigation of potential violations of 18 U.S.C. § 1001 for false statements investigators have reason to believe Steele made about the distribution of claims contained in the dossier. “I don’t take lightly making a referral for criminal investigation. But, as I would with any credible evidence of a crime unearthed in the course of our investigations, I feel obliged to pass that information along to the Justice Department for appropriate review,” Grassley said. “Everyone needs to follow the law and be truthful in their interactions with the FBI. If the same actions have different outcomes, and those differences seem to correspond to partisan political interests, then the public will naturally suspect that law enforcement decisions are not on the up-and-up. Maybe there is some innocent explanation for the inconsistencies we have seen, but it seems unlikely. In any event, it’s up to the Justice Department to figure that out.” “After reviewing how Mr. Steele conducted himself in distributing information contained in the dossier and how many stop signs the DOJ ignored in its use of the dossier, I believe that a special counsel needs to review this matter. The rule of Law depends on the government and all who work on its behalf playing by the rules themselves. I hope the Department of Justice will carefully review our letter and take appropriate action,” Graham said. Yesterday evening, Grassley and Graham delivered to Senate Security a letter and classified memorandum for delivery to Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein and FBI Director Christopher Wray containing information that forms the basis of the referral. Under 18 U.S.C. § 1001, individuals are prohibited from making false statements to the federal authorities of the United States. Grassley and Graham are referring Steele for making potentially false statements about the distribution of claims from the dossier. This referral does not pertain to the veracity of claims contained in the dossier. The referral is for further investigation only, and is not intended to be an allegation of a crime. It is the practice of the committee to notify the Justice Department whenever it comes across what appears to be credible evidence of a criminal violation that warrants further investigation by appropriate authorities based on information from any source, public or non-public. In the interest of transparency, the senators and committee staff are working to redact all sensitive information in the classified memorandum sent to Rosenstein and Wray. If and when that process can be lawfully and appropriately completed in consultation with the Justice Department, an unclassified version of the memorandum will be released. Text of Grassley’s and Graham’s unclassified cover letter to Rosenstein and Wray follows (without classified attachment). TOP SECRET//NOFORN (UNCLASSIFIED when separated from attachment) January 4, 2018 The Honorable Rod J. Rosenstein The Honorable Christopher A. Wray Deputy Attorney General Director U.S. Department of Justice Federal Bureau of Investigation 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Washington, DC 20535 Dear Deputy Attorney General Rosenstein and Director Wray: Attached please find a classified memorandum related to certain communications between Christopher Steele and multiple U.S. news outlets regarding the so-called “Trump dossier” that Mr. Steele compiled on behalf of Fusion GPS for the Clinton Campaign and the Democratic National Committee and also provided to the FBI. Based on the information contained therein, we are respectfully referring Mr. Steele to you for investigation of potential violations of 18 U.S.C. § 1001, for statements the Committee has reason to believe Mr. Steele made regarding his distribution of information contained in the dossier. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. If you have any questions, please contact Patrick Davis or DeLisa Lay of Chairman Grassley’s staff at (202) 224-5225. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Lindsey O. Graham Chairman Chairman Committee on the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Committee on the Judiciary Enclosure: As stated. cc: The Honorable Dianne Feinstein Ranking Member Committee on the Judiciary The Honorable Richard Burr Chairman Senate Select Committee on Intelligence The Honorable Mark Warner Vice Chairman Senate Select Committee on Intelligence The Honorable Devin Nunes Chairman House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence The Honorable Adam Schiff Ranking Member House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence -30-
12.27.2017	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after Nephron Pharmaceuticals, a company in West Columbia, South Carolina, announced a five percent pay raise for all employees as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act becoming law. Graham attended the celebration and congratulated Nephron on this significant announcement. “I truly enjoyed being a part of today’s celebration as Lou and Bill Kennedy — the owners and founders of Nephron Pharmaceuticals — announced a five percent pay raise for employees as a direct result of the recent tax cut. “This pay raise will increase the hourly workforce’s wage to fifteen dollars per hour and the average salary at Nephron to seventy thousand dollars per year. A five percent pay raise is real money to Nephron’s employees. “This tax cut will work. It benefits American business and American workers. The combined effect of a five percent pay raise, a tax cut for working people, and an increase in 401k value is the best evidence yet that President Trump and the Republican Congress are delivering for hardworking Americans. “The tax cut, along with deregulating America, will continue to grow the economy, making American business more successful and helping working people earn and save.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on his vote in support of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. “I’m proud to support the biggest change to our tax code in over thirty years. “This plan is good for working people across South Carolina. Whether it’s the store owner on Main Street, the farmer working their fields, or the assembly-line worker on the factory floor, South Carolinians are working harder than ever. They need a tax cut and deserve to keep more of their hard-earned money. “We lower tax rates and double the child tax credit. We grow our economy and make it easier for American companies to create jobs in the United States. “At the end of the day, this bill means more money in the pockets of hard-working South Carolinians.” ###
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Trump Administration not holding New York terror suspect Akayed Ullah as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes. “I am incredibly disappointed to see the Trump Administration continue to treat terrorists as common criminals. Giving Akayed Ullah a lawyer and putting him directly into the criminal justice system means we lose the ability to gather intelligence from a person who fits the profile of an enemy combatant. “We couldn’t possibly have gathered information on the multiple trips Ullah made to Bangladesh and other relevant activity in such a short period of time. Now that he has a lawyer, there will be no more intelligence gathering and everything will have to be done through plea bargaining. “When it comes to the potential interrogation policies regarding terrorists, it is as if President Obama and his team never left. How many more attacks will it take before the Trump Administration embraces the fact that we are fighting a war, not a crime? “The evidence against Ullah is so overwhelming, a first year law student could convict him. Our primary goal for terror suspects like Ullah should be to gather intelligence to ensure we prevent and disrupt future attacks. Only after all intelligence gathering is complete, should the suspect be turned over for trial.” ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Fiscal Year 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) being signed into law. “This bill is a tribute to Senator John McCain, the Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Senator McCain has dedicated his life to those who serve our nation in uniform. He worked tirelessly to put this package together and get it to President Trump’s desk. “President Trump has given our troops an early Christmas present by signing the National Defense Authorization Act into law. This bill provides for a much-needed pay raise, updated equipment, better training and a higher quality of life for our service members and their families. The legislation pushes the Pentagon to modernize and reform, while at the same time providing them more funding to carry out their mission. I appreciate President Trump’s leadership on this issue and the work done by Congress in a bipartisan fashion to push this important legislation into law. ###
12.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today reacted to the attempted terrorist attack in New York City saying the suspect should be held as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes. Fox News Channel: GRAHAM: “I’m very pleased that no one got killed. I think we dodged a bullet. There’s more that’s coming.” https://youtu.be/7IzCkMJz-Ys?t=0m36s GRAHAM: “The last thing I want this guy [the suspect] to hear is: ‘you have a right to remain silent.’ He should be held as a suspected enemy combatant. We should take several days here to figure out who he is and not read him his Miranda Rights… I want to hold him under the Law of War and gather intelligence.” https://youtu.be/7IzCkMJz-Ys?t=0m40s Full Fox News Interview CNN: GRAHAM: “I’d like to keep him [the suspect] talking. I don’t want to read him his Miranda Rights…Treat him humanely. I don’t think you need to send him to GTMO. You don’t need to try him in military commission... I want to look at this as an intelligence gathering opportunity.” https://youtu.be/LlURxLRYlzQ?t=0m36s GRAHAM: “Even if it’s a ‘lone wolf’ attack, somebody who pledges allegiance to ISIL in their own mind over the internet, I want to find out everything we can about what makes them tick and how they got to where they’re at.” https://youtu.be/LlURxLRYlzQ?t=1m49s GRAHAM: “…The first thing I want to do is treat this as an act of terror, not a common crime.” https://youtu.be/LlURxLRYlzQ?t=2m20s Full CNN Interview Fox News Radio with Brian Kilmeade: GRAHAM: “Hold him [the suspect] under the Law of War so you can gather intelligence. Find out what made him tick and how he got to where he’s at. Did he act by himself? Treat it as an act of war, not a common crime.” https://youtu.be/iZFHlTVZqtM?t=1m45s GRAHAM: “I’ve been urging the administration to reject the Obama model of treating acts of terrorism as common crimes.” https://youtu.be/iZFHlTVZqtM?t=2m12 Full Fox News Radio Interview ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Trump Administration’s decision to declare Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Graham is a long-time supporter of making this important change in United States policy. “I fully support the Trump Administration’s decision to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel because this statement reflects the reality on the ground for the last 3,000 years. “Why did the Trump Administration decide to declare Jerusalem the capital of Israel? Because it always has been and always will be. “Finally, the decision announced today does not take other options off the table regarding a two-state solution.” ###
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) today introduced bipartisan legislation to prevent sexual harassment in the workplace. The Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Harassment Act of 2017 would void forced arbitration agreements that prevent sexual harassment survivors from getting the justice they deserve. Graham and Gillibrand were joined by Gretchen Carlson, who previously worked at Fox News Channel and left the network after enduring years of sexual harassment. The perpetrators used forced arbitration to institutionalize protections for sexual harassers and prevent survivors from discussing their cases and taking them to trial. Today, an estimated 60 million Americans are subject to forced arbitration clauses in their employment contracts. The bipartisan legislation would void forced arbitration agreements that require arbitration of sexual harassment and discrimination claims and allow survivors of sexual harassment or discrimination to seek justice, discuss their cases publicly, and eliminate institutional protection for harassers. “To expect change without pushing for change is unrealistic,” said Senator Graham. “This legislation takes off the table the ability of employers to mandate arbitration before claims even arise. Mandatory arbitration employment contracts put the employee at a severe disadvantage. I do not oppose arbitration -- if the parties willingly consent to the process. Ensuring that sexual harassment and assault claims cannot be negotiated away before they occur will create incentives to change the workplace environment, making it less hostile and more respectful.” “When a company has a forced arbitration policy, it means that if a worker is sexually harassed or sexually assaulted in the workplace, they are not allowed to go to court over it; instead, they have to go into a secret meeting with their employer and try to work out some kind of deal that really only protects the predator. They are forbidden from talking about what happened, and then they are expected to keep doing their job as if nothing happened to them. No worker should have to put up with such an unfair system,” said Senator Gillibrand. “I am proud to lead this bipartisan legislation to finally get rid of forced arbitration for sexual harassment and sexual assault in the workplace, and I urge all of my colleagues to join our effort, take this problem seriously, and support this important bipartisan bill.” “Forced arbitration is a harasser’s best friend,” said Gretchen Carlson. “It keeps harassment complaints and settlements secret. It allows harassers to stay in their jobs, even as victims are pushed out or fired. It silences other victims who may have stepped forward if they’d known. It’s time we as a nation - together - in bipartisan fashion give a voice back to victims.” Forced arbitration clauses prevent survivors of sexual harassment from discussing the nature or basis of their complaint. If an employee’s contract or employee handbook includes a forced arbitration clause, the employee is likely to have signed away his or her right to a jury trial whether or not they are aware of the clause. Employees are far more likely to win cases that go to trial than cases that go through the arbitration process. ###
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the confirmation of Kirstjen Nielsen to be Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “I’m very proud to vote for Kirstjen Nielsen as new DHS Secretary. She has the right background, experience, and judgement to serve at a time when our nation is dealing with multiple threats.” ###
12.05.2017	Lindsey Graham is right: it’s time to evacuate US dependents from South Korea Op-Ed by Tom Rogan Washington Examiner December 4, 2017 http://www.washingtonexaminer.com/lindsey-graham-is-right-its-time-to-evacuate-us-dependents-from-south-korea/article/2642499 Senator Lindsey Graham, R-S.C. is right. The U.S. military should order the family members of U.S. government and military personnel to leave South Korea. Speaking on CBS on Sunday, Graham suggested that "It’s crazy to send spouses and children to South Korea, given the provocation of North Korea. South Korea should be an unaccompanied tour." President Trump should listen to the Senator from South Carolina. First off, the threat of a new war on the Korean peninsula is significant. And after North Korea's unprecedented missile test, last week, Trump has only three options left. He can sanction China in order to pressure Xi Jinping to get Kim Jong Un to alter course; he can accept North Korea's nuclear-ballistic missile capability and the threat it poses to U.S. security, or he can use military force to end that program. The Russians might find it hilarious, but these options reflect a very real crisis. With more than 30,000 U.S. soldiers, airman, sailors, and Marines stationed in South Korea at bases near to the demilitarized zone, we must recognize that thousands of family members now at grave risk. The need to send civilians back to the U.S. isn't just about protecting their lives, it's about ensuring the U.S. and South Korea can rapidly defeat any North Korean aggression. After all, in the event of a sudden conflict, the U.S. military would be tasked with and tied down by the need to conduct a civilian evacuation. That means the military's transport planes, helicopters and warships could not be used to ferry supplies, personnel, and ordnance to the front line. That opportunity cost denies the military of its raison d'être: warfighting. Morale would suffer if family members were ordered home. (Indeed, the U.S. Army advertises its family amenities as a draw to get soldiers to apply for a two-year tour in South Korea.) But the commander of U.S. forces in Korea, General Vincent Brooks, must put lives and the mission first. Graham is right, to want to protect American wives, husbands, sons, and daughters, and to ensure their loved ones are best placed to fight and win, it's time civilians were sent home.
12.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with President Trump and other Senators to discuss trade issues, including the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). “I appreciate and enjoyed meeting with President Trump and my Senate colleagues to discuss the way forward on trade in general and NAFTA in particular. “I totally agree with President Trump that we need to update NAFTA to make it a better deal for American workers. In my view, a better deal would include modernizing existing trading regimes and negotiating an energy component to NAFTA so North American energy can better compete with Russia, China, and the Middle East. “To me, this would be a ‘winning’ deal – one which benefits Americans workers, creates new jobs here at home, focuses on energy independence, makes our nation competitive in the international marketplace, and all Americans more prosperous in the years to come.” ###
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of former South Carolina Supreme Court Chief Justice Ernest Finney Jr. “I was very saddened to hear of the passing of Chief Justice Finney. He was a legal legend and a trailblazer in the legal profession. Chief Justice Finney’s keen intellect, sharp wit, and kind disposition made him one of the most well-respected jurists in South Carolina. He will be missed.” ###
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of former South Carolina Supreme Court Chief Justice Ernest Finney Jr. “I was very saddened to hear of the passing of Chief Justice Finney. He was a legal legend and a trailblazer in the legal profession. Chief Justice Finney’s keen intellect, sharp wit, and kind disposition made him one of the most well-respected jurists in South Carolina. He will be missed.” ###
12.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement welcoming Senate passage of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. GRAHAM: “I am very pleased that the United States Senate passed a desperately needed tax cut for working American families and for our business community.” https://youtu.be/ttCwHo7FhCM GRAHAM: “I believe by the end of this year… we’re going to have a Christmas present for working families by lowering taxes. And we’re going to make our business environment more competitive.” https://youtu.be/ttCwHo7FhCM?t=39s GRAHAM: “From a South Carolina point of view, the average working family is going to see a $2,300 tax cut. That’s money to help raise your kids and do things you need to do with the family budget.” https://youtu.be/ttCwHo7FhCM?t=20s GRAHAM: “This tax cut is going to help grow the economy. It’s going to make a real difference to working families. I’m proud to have been a part of it.” https://youtu.be/ttCwHo7FhCM?t=31s The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Doubles the Standard Deduction: For an individual, the standard deduction goes from $6,350 to $12,000. For a married couple, it goes from $12,700 to $24,000. Doubles the Child Tax Credit: The child tax credit is doubled from the current $1,000 to $2,000, and more parents are allowed to claim the credit. Lowers Tax Rates: Individual tax rates for middle-income Americans are reduced, which will help taxpayers keep even more of their hard-earned money. Repeals Obamacare’s Individual Mandate: Repealing this unpopular tax will help provide additional relief to low- and middle-income families. Makes American Business Competitive in the World Market: Makes permanent the 20 percent corporate tax rate as well as shifts in the structure of the international tax system, which will make American businesses more competitive and keep well-paying jobs here at home. #####
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) discussed North Korea’s latest missile test on CNN. GRAHAM: “The President has said we’ll take care of it [the North Korean nuclear threat] – not the United Nations, not China. We’ll take care of it. And my hope is that North Korea will realize that he [President Trump] is serious about this. The President is not going to allow North Korea to have a nuclear weapon in their hands that can hit America…If we have to go to war to stop this, we will.” https://youtu.be/Prh2l3XZ8KA?t=28s GRAHAM: “If there’s a war with North Korea, it’s because North Korea brought it on itself. And we’re headed toward a war if things don’t change.” https://youtu.be/Prh2l3XZ8KA?t=49s GRAHAM: “The best outcome is not to have a war. I don’t want a war. He [the President] doesn’t want a war. But we’re not going to let this crazy man in North Korea have the capability to hit the homeland. We’re not going to live this way.” https://youtu.be/Prh2l3XZ8KA?t=3m9s GRAHAM: “He [the President] has told China, Japan and South Korea that he wants a diplomatic solution. We’re not trying regime change, we’re not trying to spread democracy to North Korea, and we’re not trying to unify the peninsula. We’re just simply saying we’re not going to allow this man in North Korea to have a missile to hit America with a nuclear weapon on top.” https://youtu.be/Prh2l3XZ8KA?t=1m29s GRAHAM: “It’s not in the world’s interest for Kim Jong Un to have a hydrogen bomb and a bunch of missiles.” https://youtu.be/Prh2l3XZ8KA?t=4m08s
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his vote in support of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the Senate Budget Committee. A vote in the full Senate is expected later this week. “This plan is good for working people across South Carolina. Whether it’s the store owner on Main Street, the farmer working their fields, or the assembly-line worker on the factory floor; South Carolinians are working harder than ever. They deserve to keep more of their hard-earned money. “I intend to roll up my sleeves and get these tax cuts passed, which will help strengthen the economy of South Carolina both today and for years to come.” #####
11.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on the passing of the former First Lady of South Carolina, Iris Campbell. “It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of the former First Lady of South Carolina, Iris Campbell. She was an indispensable partner to Governor Campbell. She represented our state with class and dignity. Iris will be missed by her wonderful family and many friends.” ###
11.20.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) joined Fox News Radio host Brian Kilmeade to discuss tax reform and a recent meeting with President Trump and Vice President Pence. GRAHAM: “I met with her [Senator Susan Collins] and the President [on] Thursday with [Senators] Lamar Alexander and Bill Cassidy to talk about the tax bill.” 00:49 GRAHAM: “Repealing the individual mandate, I definitely support. It would create money to help pay for the tax bill... So if it [the individual mandate] is a tax, which I think it is and the Court held it was, we certainly can repeal it as part of a tax reform bill.” 00:56 GRAHAM: “The message of President Trump resonated to the point that he was able to beat the Clinton machine [and] sixteen primary opponents. So you’ve got to give the President some credit for having a message and an agenda that people like. I think the agenda is a damn good one.” 8:04 Click to listen to the full interview
11.20.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement. “Placing North Korea back on the State Sponsor of Terrorism list is justified due to their behavior. It is another strong signal, to both North Korea and the region, that the Trump Administration has changed the game when it comes to dealing with this rogue regime. “I appreciate President Trump’s willingness to use all available economic and diplomatic tools to deal with the North Korean missile and nuclear threat. It is clear to me that President Trump wants to avoid a military conflict with North Korea. He’s shown he is more than willing to work with regional partners to solve this national security threat to the American homeland. “It’s equally clear that if economic and diplomatic pressure fails, President Trump would use military force – as a last resort – to protect the American homeland from the North Korean nuclear threat. Given North Korea’s behavior, we are running out of time on the economic and diplomatic fronts.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today congratulated Don Coggins on being confirmed as a federal district court judge for South Carolina. “I’m very pleased the United States Senate has confirmed President Trump’s nominee, Don Coggins, to be a federal district court judge for the state of South Carolina. “Don is a highly qualified and well-respected attorney who will make a great judge. I’m confident he will administer justice to the people of South Carolina in an even-handed manner. I wish him well in his new endeavors.” ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement. “I had a great meeting today with President Trump and Vice President Pence regarding taxes and health care. “They remain fully committed to passing meaningful tax reform and repealing and replacing Obamacare. President Trump and Vice President Pence were focused like a laser on success in the Senate. “I appreciate the President and Vice President for being generous with their time and looking for ways to close the deal on these important issues for the American people.” ###
11.10.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this message in honor of Veterans Day. GRAHAM: “To those of you who have worn the uniform of the United States, we’re incredibly grateful to you and your family.” https://youtu.be/lwLUfpcFRvw?t=8s GRAHAM: “To all those who have served our country, God bless you. To all those in the fight today, God keep you.” https://youtu.be/lwLUfpcFRvw?t=33s
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on President Trump’s address to the South Korean parliament. “I thought President Trump delivered a great speech before the South Korean parliament. “In blunt terms, he urged North Korea to negotiate. He also demonstrated the necessary resolve to help stop North Korea from developing the capability to strike the American homeland. It was a clear, concise, and forceful message which has been missing for the last twenty-five years. “Well done, Mr. President.” ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “While I have tremendous respect for the military justice system I was a part of for over thirty years, I’m incredibly disappointed in the sentence handed down by the court in the Bergdahl case. “Given the nature of the crime and the sacrifices made by others on Bergdahl’s behalf, this sentence in my view falls short of the gravity of the offense. An independent judiciary is the heart and soul of the rule of law but no one is beyond criticism.” ####
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement. “I appreciate President Trump taking the gloves off when it comes to unleashing our military on ISIL. However, I’m dumbfounded as to why the Trump Administration still follows the Obama playbook when it comes to dealing with terror suspects. “If there was ever a candidate to be held as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes, it is Sayfullo Saipov -- a self-declared ‘Soldier of the Caliphate’. “If you show support for terrorism, commit an act of terrorism, and say you are a terrorist that should be enough to allow us to treat you as a terrorist. All the evidence points to the fact he should be characterized as an unlawful enemy combatant -- not a common criminal. Mr. Saipov is an enemy combatant and should be held as such.” ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today held a press conference in support of holding New York City terror suspect, Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov, as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes. GRAHAM: “So what I hope the Trump Administration will do is break from the Obama Administration’s view that all terrorists are common criminals.” https://youtu.be/wVGPPo0XeO8?t=4m18s GRAHAM: “If you take up arms against the United States in the name of radical Islam, you should be treated as a terrorist. If you kill in the name of radical Islam, you should be treated as a terrorist and held initially under the law of war as an unlawful enemy combatant. You’ll never convince me that the best way to gather intelligence in this war – which is now in our backyard – is to read somebody their Miranda Rights telling them they have a right to remain silent...” https://youtu.be/wVGPPo0XeO8?t=3m32s GRAHAM: “It’s not enough for a politician to give platitudes about what happened. We actually need to look and see if our laws are sufficient to meet the threats.” https://youtu.be/wVGPPo0XeO8?t=39s GRAHAM: “…I’ve been a military lawyer for 33 years. We have the authority in the United States to detain this man as an unlawful enemy combatant.” https://youtu.be/wVGPPo0XeO8?t=3m09s
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on potentially holding the suspect in the New York City terror attack, Sayfullo Habibullaevic Saipov, as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes. “I’m very pleased to hear that President Trump is considering holding Mr. Saipov as an enemy combatant. The President understands the difference between a terrorist and a common criminal. If an individual acts like a terrorist and says they’re a terrorist, they should be treated like a terrorist. “Based on the current evidence, it would be very appropriate to initially hold Mr. Saipov as a suspected enemy combatant to allow us to gather the best and most reliable intelligence regarding his activities. “Mr. Saipov does not have to be transferred to GTMO, but that certainly is an option available to the Administration. My main goal is to gather as much reliable intelligence as quickly as possible. We are fighting a war – not a crime.” ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement. “It appears the Trump Administration is continuing the Obama policy of criminalizing the War on Terror by not declaring Sayfullo Saipov an enemy combatant. “It’s ridiculous to believe that one day of interviews in a hospital tells us all we need to know about Saipov’s terrorist ties. Now that he’s lawyered up, that will likely be the end of intelligence gathering except through plea bargaining. “Plea bargaining is a bad way to gather intelligence – not required under the law of war. Given the facts, any first-year law school student could obtain a conviction in court. I am more concerned about intelligence gathering to help win a war. That is a process which takes time – time which is now lost. “The Trump Administration missed an important opportunity to send a strong message to terrorists and make America safer. This is a huge mistake. Very sad.” ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today made this opening statement at the hearing titled “Extremist Content and Russian Disinformation Online: Working with Tech to Find Solutions”. Hearing witnesses include representatives from Facebook, Twitter and Google. GRAHAM: “…Millions of Americans use your technology to share the first step of a grandchild, to talk about good and bad things in their lives and I would like to say to all of you, you’ve enriched America. We have more information available to us because of what you do. We can find the answer to almost every question… We can share aspects of our lives with those who mean the most to us.” https://youtu.be/LzBP_Cz75Yk?t=1m02s GRAHAM: “But the bottom line is, these technologies also can be used to undermine our democracy and put our nation at risk. The platforms that I’ve just described that add value to individual American lives and to our country also can be used by terrorists to recruit in the cyber world… [It] can be used by foreign governments. We’ve seen an example of that in 2016 to create chaos within our democracy.” https://youtu.be/LzBP_Cz75Yk?t=1m35s GRAHAM: “The challenge of this hearing…is how do we keep the good [on social media] and deal with the bad? We’ll never be one hundred percent perfect, but the goal is to be better than we are today.” https://youtu.be/LzBP_Cz75Yk?t=4m19s
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism of the Senate Judiciary Committee, issued this statement ahead of today’s hearing titled “Extremist Content and Russian Disinformation Online: Working with Tech to Find Solutions”. The subcommittee will receive testimony from representatives for Facebook, Twitter and Google, as well as experts in terrorism and national security. “The purpose of today’s hearing is to gather information regarding activity by foreign governments and terrorist organizations to manipulate popular social media sites in order to undermine our national security. “It is well documented that radical Islamic terrorist groups regularly use popular social media outlets to recruit Americans and individuals throughout the world to their cause. It has become equally clear that foreign governments like Russia – in the 2016 election cycle – were deeply involved in manipulating popular social media websites with misinformation to sow discord among Americans. Today’s hearing is designed to explore the depth of the problem to determine whether or not legislative solutions are necessary and can be constructed consistent with our Constitution and values. Equally important is to make sure that the social media platforms are doing everything possible to combat these growing concerns. Clearly, to date, their efforts have been unsuccessful. “The manipulation of social media sites by terrorist organizations and foreign governments is one of the greatest challenges to American democracy and a significant threat to our national security in the 21st century.” ##### Testimony of Colin Stretch, General Counsel, Facebook.pdf (84.7 KBs) Testimony of Sean Edgett, Acting General Counsel, Twitter.pdf (912.2 KBs) Testimony of Richard Salgado, Senior Counsel, Law Enforcement and Information Security, Google.pdf (102.0 KBs) Testimony - Clint Watts - Senate Judiciary Crime Terrorism - 31 Oct 2017....pdf (82.2 KBs) Testimony_MichaelSSmithII_31October2017.pdf (246.7 KBs)
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) spoke with Fox News about the Republican Party and President Trump. GRAHAM: “I’m here to help where I can. I’m not going to abandon Jeff Flake or Bob Corker. I love John McCain. But Mr. President, I want to help you cut taxes and win a war we can’t afford to lose. So let’s all up our game.” https://youtu.be/7FRlzg_RQOs?t=1m41s GRAHAM: “I’m here to fix the military, to cut taxes, repeal and replace Obamacare. And that’s what I care about the most.” https://youtu.be/7FRlzg_RQOs?t=0m50s GRAHAM: “We’re not going to be successful or fail because of MSNBC or CNN. Most people don’t watch those cable networks. Most people are working for a living.” https://youtu.be/7FRlzg_RQOs?t=2m25s GRAHAM: “The one thing I would say… to my colleagues: I admire you. I like you. You’ve got guts. To the President: You won. You beat me. I want you to be successful. To all three of you: knock it off. ” https://youtu.be/7FRlzg_RQOs?t=7m38s GRAHAM: “I want this president to be successful because God knows we need change in this country. Donald Trump beat us all with a simple message: Let’s make America great again and drain the swamp. And a lot of us up here need to do a little soul searching as to why we’re so unpopular.” https://youtu.be/7FRlzg_RQOs?t=4m35s
10.19.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana) today released this statement on the short-term health care stabilization deal brokered by the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee) and Ranking Member Patty Murray (D-Washington). “Senators Alexander and Murray have worked hard to bring all sides to the table and we appreciate their efforts. We believe we need a package which stabilizes the market in the short-term and lays the groundwork for a long-term solution like Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. “However, we recognize this short-term stabilization will not pass unless concerns of the House are addressed. “We are working with Senator Johnson and House members to include more flexibility provisions like the ones found in our legislation, Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. “Without a stabilization package, the market will collapse and advance premium tax credits will spike. This would increase the costs to the American taxpayer.” ###
10.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his meeting with Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. Graham is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs of the Senate Appropriations Committee which oversees State Department funding. “I had a great meeting with Secretary Tillerson and his team this morning about their efforts to reform and reorganize the State Department. “Secretary Tillerson is aggressively seeking to modernize the Department, starting with IT systems and human resources. According to the Secretary, he’s getting a lot of valuable information by asking professionals in the Department a simple question – ‘What can we do to make you more efficient and successful in your job and career?’ I believe his years of experience in the private sector will be beneficial to reshaping the Department to make it more cost-effective, efficient, and relevant in meeting today’s foreign policy challenges. “Secretary Tillerson noted the rapid growth of special envoys, representatives, advisors, and coordinators – and their support staff – at the Department over the past decade. Many report directly to the Secretary. He has my support in reviewing these positions and eliminating those duplicative of other State Department efforts. “Secretary Tillerson and I also share a commitment to ensuring the safety and security of our diplomats and development officers. Those who serve in harm’s way on behalf of our nation deserve our full support, and their welfare must always remain a top priority to the State Department. “Finally, I look forward to continuing to work with Secretary Tillerson, and my colleagues in the Senate and House to modernize and reform the State Department. We need to ensure the funds appropriated for State Department operations are managed well, spent efficiently, and put American national security interests first.” #####
10.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on Iraq. “I’m very concerned about ongoing developments in Iraq regarding reports that the Iraqi military and Shia militias are advancing on Kurdish interests around Kirkuk. This has the potential to further destabilize the region and expand the war in Iraq, all of which strengthens the hand of Iran. We must act quickly and decisively to bring stability to Iraq recognizing that Iran seeks nothing more than to control its neighbors and foment unrest. “Ultimately, this serves as yet another example of the destabilizing force Iran has become in the region.” ###
10.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today discussed tax reform, the Iran Deal and the Republican Party on Fox News. On tax reform: GRAHAM: “If we can’t deliver on cutting taxes, what good are we to the country? And if we can’t repeal and replace Obamacare, then you know, why have us up here [in Congress]? …The Republicans in Congress – we’ve got to get our act together or we’re all going to lose.” https://youtu.be/GRIrMh7RjoY?t=1m2s GRAHAM: “I believe a tax cut is absolutely essential to grow the economy. And I’m hopeful we can pass the budget this week that will allow us to cut taxes later in the fall.” https://youtu.be/GRIrMh7RjoY?t=2m11s GRAHAM: “This tax cut is good for the economy. It’s good for working people. We double the standard deduction. We lower the corporate rate so [businesses] don’t have to leave America because of high corporate taxes. We’re trying to streamline the tax code… I’m hoping we can find a handful of Democrats to buy into the idea that a tax cut is good for America.” https://youtu.be/GRIrMh7RjoY?t=3m44s On the Iran Deal: GRAHAM: “I’m really pleased that President Trump is delivering on a campaign promise to get a better deal. Decertifying is the first step.” https://youtu.be/GRIrMh7RjoY?t=4m38s GRAHAM: “I cannot believe that we have a deal where the Iranians decide where we go to inspect. I can’t believe we didn’t connect the regime’s behavior to the deal. They’re toppling four Arab capitals as we speak. They’re now sponsoring attacks on the Kurds in Iraq. And at the end of fifteen years, this deal allows Iran to march toward a bomb without any limitation.” https://youtu.be/GRIrMh7RjoY?t=6m21s GRAHAM: “The President is right to try to get a better deal. Congress, I hope, will back him up. Because the Arabs and the Israelis who live in the region are speaking with one voice here. How often do you hear the Arabs and the Israelis saying the same thing?” https://youtu.be/GRIrMh7RjoY?t=6m45s On the Republican Party: GRAHAM: “If we don’t deliver, we’re going to disintegrate as a party. We’ve got to deliver on health care. We’ve got to deliver on taxes. If we don’t, we’ll disintegrate as a party and we’ll have nobody to blame but ourselves.” https://youtu.be/GRIrMh7RjoY?t=7m49s
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on President Trump’s executive order on health care. “I applaud the executive order by President Trump to open up the health care insurance market by allowing purchases across state lines. This decision, combined with creating more consumer choices for health care policies will improve quality and lower costs. “Obamacare is failing and will eventually collapse. South Carolinians are already down to one provider on our Obamacare exchange and that provider is seeking a 31% increase in premiums this year. Americans deserve better than they are currently getting from Obamacare. “Legislation I recently introduced, Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson, was founded on the principle that moving money and power out of Washington gives consumers a stronger voice in their health care. I will continue to push for our legislation which will return health care power and decision making to patients and states.” #####
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after President Trump’s speech on tax reform. “The focus of President Trump’s tax plan is to help working people keep more of their hard-earned money and create jobs here in the United States. “As a nation, we desperately need a competitive tax code. Our current code is outdated, complicated, and puts America at a disadvantage. “Tax reform is not just about cutting taxes, it’s about overhauling a broken system which is doing real harm. “We need to create jobs in the United States and put an end to the incentives which compel businesses to move overseas rather than grow and expand in the United States.” ###
10.06.2017	What They Are Saying: Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act Introduced by Senator Lindsey Graham October 6, 2017 “Voters agree: it’s inexplicable that the United States is one of only seven nations in the world to allow abortion after 20 weeks – five months, more than halfway through pregnancy – putting us in the company of China and North Korea. Our nation does not belong in that disgraceful club. Twenty states have passed their own Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Acts and momentum has long been building for a national limit.” President, Marjorie Dannenfelser Susan B. Anthony List “This is not rocket science. A baby at five months in utero feels pain. If the child were undergoing a corrective medical procedure either outside the womb or inside the womb, the child would be given anesthesia. What is happening in America is inhumane. It has been mentioned that our country is in a scandalous league of nations when it comes to the treatment of unborn children. If America wants to draw distinctions between itself and rogue nations like North Korea -- this is a good place to start. The Senate should take up and pass without delay the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. I look forward to seeing the president who is committed to this, signing it into law.” Tony Perkins President, Family Research Council “It is common to read in articles about this legislation that unborn children do not have the capacity to experience pain at 20 weeks fetal age. Those kinds of claims ignore the facts. ….Advocates of abortion try to deny that unborn children killed in late abortions feel pain, but they are the ones dabbling in ‘junk science.’ NOW is the time to end the cruel pain of late abortions on helpless babies.” Carol Tobias President, National Right to Life Committee #########
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today was joined by Senate colleagues and pro-life leaders to formally introduce the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act at a press conference. GRAHAM: “What we’re trying to accomplish here is to get America out of a club of seven nations that I particularly don’t want to be in.” https://youtu.be/kmeYVjzdPRU?t=12m43s GRAHAM: “We’re going to take it [the Pain-Capable bill] up in the Senate. I can assure every pro-life group out there this will be on the floor of the Senate sooner rather than later. [This is a] debate worthy of a great nation.” https://youtu.be/kmeYVjzdPRU?t=14m28s GRAHAM: “So my view is the best way to protect the pro-life issue and to pass this bill is to build consensus and get 60 votes – not turn the Senate into the House [by doing away with the filibuster].” https://youtu.be/kmeYVjzdPRU?t=26m42s GRAHAM: “I look forward to a debate that will make us a better people that will result over time in protecting a child in the fifth month [of gestation.]” https://youtu.be/kmeYVjzdPRU?t=31m47s
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today was joined by Senate colleagues and pro-life leaders to formally introduce the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. The legislation would provide common-sense protections for unborn children at 20 weeks after fertilization, a point at which there is significant scientific evidence that abortion inflicts tremendous pain on these vulnerable human beings. On Tuesday, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Pain-Capable legislation by a vote of 237-189. “There are only seven countries that allow wholesale abortions at the 20-week period, including China and North Korea. The United States should not be in that club,” said Graham. “I don’t believe abortion, five months into pregnancy, makes us a better nation. America is at her best when she’s standing up for the least among us and the sooner we pass this legislation into law, the better. We are on the right side of history.” “At five month gestational age, babies have 10 fingers and 10 toes, they can yawn, stretch, make faces – and they can feel pain,” said Senator Joni Ernst (R-Iowa). “It’s unconscionable that the United States is currently one of only 7 countries in the world that allows abortions after five months; we are currently in the same company of China and North Korea. I’m fighting for this legislation in honor of my friend and fellow Iowan, Micah Pickering, an incredible 5 year old who was born prematurely, at five months gestation. This legislation could protect up to 10,000 lives like Micah’s every year by preventing abortions after about 5 months of development, and it is absolutely critical that the Senate take up this legislation to protect our most vulnerable.” “The United States is one of only seven countries, including North Korea, that allow abortion at five months of pregnancy,” said Senator James Lankford (R-Oklahoma). “I applaud the House for passing this bill; it is now time for the Senate to act on this. So many children are alive, healthy, and growing today who were born prematurely at five months pregnancy. We should not allow elective abortions past five months of pregnancy, especially when science shows that unborn babies feel pain at this stage.” “Washington has a debate between empty euphemisms like ‘choice’ and basic science – none of the usual euphemisms change the fact that a 20-week old baby can see, swallow, and flex her arms and legs,” said Senator Ben Sasse (R-Nebraska). “Americans rightly condemn human rights abuses around the world because we judge societies on how they take care of their most vulnerable members – there’s no good reason for the United States to be on a list of human rights abusers like China and North Korea in allowing these kinds of abortions.” Graham was joined at the press conference by representatives of organizations which strongly support the legislation and have worked to help push for its passage. They include National Right to Life Committee, Susan B. Anthony List, Family Research Council, Americans United for Life and Concerned Women for America. The legislation has been cosponsored by forty-five senators, including Senators John Barrasso, Roy Blunt, John Boozman, Richard Burr, Bill Cassidy, Thad Cochran, Bob Corker, John Cornyn, Tom Cotton, Mike Crapo, Ted Cruz, Steve Daines, Joni Ernst, Mike Enzi, Jeff Flake, Deb Fischer, Chuck Grassley, Orrin Hatch, John Hoeven, James Inhofe, Johnny Isakson, Ron Johnson, John Kennedy, James Lankford, Mike Lee, Jerry Moran, John McCain, Mitch McConnell, Rand Paul, David Perdue, Rob Portman, James Risch, Pat Roberts, Mike Rounds, Marco Rubio, Ben Sasse, Tim Scott, Richard Shelby, Luther Strange, Dan Sullivan, John Thune, Thom Tillis, Pat Toomey, Roger Wicker, and Todd Young. ###### Background on the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act At the age of 20 weeks post-fertilization, scientific evidence tells us an unborn child can feel pain. Anesthesia is administered directly to the unborn child in second-trimester fetal surgery. The unborn child shows physical, chemical, brain and stress responses demonstrating pain at this stage of development. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is based in science, has overwhelming public support, and is necessary to protect unborn children from painful and untimely deaths. HIGHLIGHTS: This legislation protects unborn babies after 20 weeks or five months, more than halfway through the pregnancy. The United States is one of only seven countries that allows on-demand abortions past 20 weeks. The other six are: North Korea, China, Vietnam, Singapore, Canada, and the Netherlands. Pain-Capable legislation has already passed in South Carolina and other states. They include Ohio, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Indiana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, Kansas, Idaho, Iowa, Oklahoma, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, and Arizona. Advances in modern medicine help babies born at 20, 21 and 22 weeks post-fertilization survive outside the womb. The pain these babies feel outside the womb gives evidence to the pain their unborn counterparts feel while in utero. Ultrasounds show unborn babies at 20 weeks sucking their thumb, yawning, stretching and making faces. ##### Summary of Provisions: The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would make it illegal for any person to perform, or attempt to perform, an abortion without first making a determination of the probable post-fertilization age of the unborn child. If the post-fertilization age of the unborn child is determined to be 20 weeks or greater, an abortion shall not be performed, unless – It is necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman; The pregnancy is a result of rape and the woman has received medical treatment or counseling at least 48 hours prior to the abortion; or if she chooses to do so, has made a report to law enforcement; or The pregnancy is a result of rape or incest against a minor and the abuse is reported to either social services or law enforcement. In the case of the exceptions – the abortion may only proceed in a manner that provides the best opportunity for the unborn child to survive unless that would pose a greater risk of death or serious bodily injury to the pregnant woman; and the abortion provider must receive informed consent from the pregnant woman, certifying that she has been provided the child’s gestational age, a description of the law, and her rights under the law. A woman on whom an abortion was performed in violation of this Act may bring a civil action against the abortion provider in court to recover damages. Abortion doctors are required to submit annual data to the National Center for Health and Statistics providing statistical information about abortions carried out after 20 weeks post-fertilization age. The criminal punishment for a violation of this Act is imprisonment of up to five years, fines, or both. The Act makes clear that a woman who receives an illegal abortion in violation of this act may not be prosecuted.
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded the House of Representatives for passing the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act by a vote of 237 to 189. Graham is the lead sponsor of the Senate effort and plans to reintroduce his legislation this week in Washington. “I am very appreciative of Speaker Ryan and the House leadership for bringing up and passing the 20-week Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. “At 20 weeks, we know that the unborn children can feel pain. The United States is one of only seven nations that allows abortion on demand in the fifth month of pregnancy. This legislation changes that practice, limiting abortions to cases of rape, incest or saving the life of the mother. “I will soon be reintroducing companion legislation in the Senate and I appreciate the support I’ve received from my colleagues on both sides of the aisle. “Finally, I want to thank the lead sponsor in the House, Representative Trent Franks, for introducing this bill, and congratulate my colleagues in the House of Representatives for passing this important legislation. We are one step closer to getting this legislation passed through Congress and onto President Trump’s desk for his signature into law.” ###
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement regarding the U.S. Department of State’s decision to pull non-emergency personnel assigned to the U.S. Embassy in Havana and all family members from Cuba. This decision is a result of recent attacks on U.S. Embassy staff. “I was informed this morning about the Trump Administration’s decision to pull certain U.S. Embassy personnel and all family members from Cuba. I support this decision. “It is completely unacceptable that the Cuban government launched these sonic attacks on personnel from the State Department and other government agencies. “I appreciate the Trump Administration taking this firm stance. It is clear the Castro dictatorship is not moving toward freedom. It is moving backward.” ###
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana) today issued this statement on their meeting with President Donald Trump to discuss a host of issues including Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson (GCHJ) and tax reform. “We greatly appreciate President Trump taking time to discuss the many problems facing Obamacare and how we can replace it with state-tailored health care reform that lowers costs and improves coverage for millions of Americans. “President Trump remains committed to repealing and replacing Obamacare. He also strongly supports the principles brought forward in Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. “While President Trump – and both of us – are moving to focus on tax cuts, the debate about health care reform will continue. “Over the coming weeks and months, we are committed to holding congressional hearings and working with our nations’ governors who believe returning power to states is a vast improvement over Obamacare. “We are also very appreciative that the President has fully committed his Administration to continue working with us so we can pass GCHJ. With the President and Vice President’s continued leadership and involvement, we believe it is just a matter of time until Obamacare is replaced by a state-centric system closer to patients and more focused on positive health care outcomes. “In our meeting, President Trump also made clear he is willing to work with Democrats to see if we can find bipartisan, common ground and we strongly encouraged the President to do so. But like us, he shares concerns about simply throwing good money after bad in propping up a structurally unsound Obamacare system which will eventually collapse. “It’s time we adopt solutions to America’s health care problems that are sustainable and will produce better outcomes than Obamacare. We remain convinced that our state-centric approach is the best way forward and will deliver the best results to the American people.” ####
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced the Federal Firearms Licensee (FFL) Protection Act, which is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana), John Cornyn (R-Texas), James Risch (R-Idaho), John Boozman (R-Arkansas), Jim Inhofe (R-Oklahoma), Luther Strange (R-Alabama), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Heidi Heitkamp (D-North Dakota), and Joe Manchin (D-West Virginia). The bipartisan legislation will help address the rapid increase in the number of ‘smash-and-grab’ thefts targeted at federally licensed gun dealers. The legislation: Increases the statutory maximum penalty for knowingly stealing any firearm in an FFL’s business inventory from 10 to 20 years. Imposes a mandatory minimum sentence of 3 years for burglary from an FFL and 5 years for robbery from an FFL. Criminalizes the attempted theft of a firearm from a licensed importer, manufacturer, dealer, or collector. “I am proud to introduce this bipartisan effort to make ‘smash and grabs’ more costly for the criminal. I believe in responsible gun ownership – not criminals stealing firearms,” said Graham. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) has reported a 48 percent increase in the number of FFL burglaries and a 175 percent increase in the number of FFL robberies over the past five years. Last year alone, 7,858 firearms were taken in FFL burglaries and robberies. South Carolina examples of thefts targeted at FFLs include: In July, 39 handguns were stolen during a break-in at a gun store in Gilbert. In June, burglars smashed through the front window and gun counter of a store in Fort Mill, making off with 22 handguns. Last October, thieves using Hurricane Matthew as cover smashed through windows and display cases in a gun shop in Horry County and stole 229 firearms worth over $200,000. Also last October, three teenagers in Simpsonville used a stolen minivan to ram through the front of a gun shop, where they stole 43 firearms. ###
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana), Dean Heller (R-Nevada), and Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin) today issued this statement. “As a result of our efforts in the last few weeks, it’s not a question of ‘if’ Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson replaces Obamacare – it’s only a question of ‘when.’ Our approach ends the march towards single-payer health care where all medical decisions are made by a Washington bureaucrat. “Obamacare's problems are widespread and well known. Forty five percent of counties or parishes in the U.S. are down to single provider. Premiums are skyrocketing. And families across the country are suffering under the weight of this failed law. Unfortunately, these problems will only get worse over time. “Due to circumstances under our control and not under our control, the process and timing of this vote did not line up this time. However, our idea of sending the power and money to the states clearly resounded with our colleagues. A one-size fits all approach to health care does not work. The needs of South Carolina are different than those in Louisiana, Nevada, and Wisconsin. Our system should be flexible to reflect this reality. We can all say with confidence that our plan not only replaces Obamacare – it will end the march led by our Democratic friends towards single-payer health care. “While the arcane rules of the reconciliation process limited our policy options and imposed an artificial deadline on our efforts, we will push on. “The most frequent frustration we heard from our colleagues ranging from Senator McCain to Senator Murkowski was that time and process were the biggest obstacles to their support. There is no doubt about their commitment to repeal and replace Obamacare and no doubt about their support of local control. “We have never felt better about the idea that we can now – as a party – not only repeal, but replace Obamacare with an idea that will pay off for the American health care consumer. Under our approach, the money and power in Washington is given to state officials who will be accountable at the ballot box and therefore more accessible than any Washington bureaucrat. “It is just a matter of time until we fulfill our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare with something far better. For the American people, when it comes to Obamacare, the worst is yet to come. That is why we believe Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson is needed and will eventually pass. “Finally, we truly appreciate the leadership and assistance shown by Leader McConnell and his leadership team, the President and Vice President. They have all been fully engaged in this effort and we could not have come this far without their hard work. We look forward to our continued collaboration in the days and weeks ahead.” ####
09.26.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke at a press conference on the Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson proposal to repeal and replace Obamacare by giving money and power back to the states. GRAHAM: “We’re on the path to pass Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. It’s not ‘if’ it’s only a matter of ‘when.’” https://youtu.be/BnW76rtY-bs?t=3s GRAHAM: “But the good news for America is Republicans are not just going to deliver on a campaign promise, we’re actually going to improve your health care by giving you access to people who care more about you at home than any bureaucrat could here in Washington.” https://youtu.be/BnW76rtY-bs?t=2m26s GRAHAM: “Here’s what I have concluded. With a process that gives more attention and time, we will replace Obamacare with a block grant called Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson.” https://youtu.be/BnW76rtY-bs?t=0m57s GRAHAM: “What we’re proposing is the end of single-payer health care…” https://youtu.be/BnW76rtY-bs?t=1m42s GRAHAM: “…Obamacare is the exact opposite of innovation, flexibility and high quality.” https://youtu.be/BnW76rtY-bs?t=2m11s ###
09.22.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements. “My friendship with John McCain is not based on how he votes but respect for how he’s lived his life and the person he is. “I respectfully disagree with his position not to proceed forward on Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. I know Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson is the best chance to repeal and replace Obamacare. “Obamacare is collapsing in Arizona, South Carolina, and across the nation - driving up premiums and reducing choices. I feel an obligation to fix this disaster and intend to push forward for state-centric health care versus Washington-knows-best health care. “I’m completely convinced taking money and power out of Washington and returning it to states to administer health care is the best way to replace a collapsing Obamacare system. I’m excited about solutions we have found in Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. We press on.” ###
09.20.2017	Today, President Donald J. Trump tweeted urging Senators to vote for Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. View orginal post
09.20.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released this statement today responding to President Obama’s criticism of health care reform. “It’s unrealistic to expect President Obama would acknowledge his signature issue is failing. “It’s no surprise President Obama opposes sending money and power back to the states and closer to where the patients live. Obamacare was designed with the exact opposite goal in mind – which is to consolidate health care power and decision-making in Washington. “Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson breaks that Obamacare mold by sending money and power back to the states, and closer to patients, to deliver quality health care. It's why our proposal continues to gain momentum and support. “The Democratic Party is heavily invested in Washington controlling health care. Our last best chance to repeal and replace Obamacare is with Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson.” ####
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released this statement today on President Trump’s address before the United Nations (U.N.) General Assembly. “I was very impressed with President Trump’s strong words against North Korea’s nuclear program in his address before the United Nations General Assembly. President Trump is right to rally the world to deal with a nuclear-armed North Korea. He’s also right to focus on getting a better deal with Iran regarding their nuclear program, and to push the U.N. to reform the way it does business.” ####
09.18.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released this statement today welcoming Arizona Governor Doug Ducey’s support of Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. “A great day for federalism, bad day for Obamacare. “With Governor Ducey’s support, we are gaining the momentum we need to repeal and replace Obamacare. Governor Ducey rightly believes he can do a better job delivering health care to Arizonans than some nameless, faceless bureaucrat in Washington. The governor and his Arizona team are providing the conservative leadership that will get us over the top in passing Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson. They are practicing what they preach.” ####
09.15.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) and Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced bipartisan legislation to establish the National Commission on the Cybersecurity of the United States Election Systems. The Commission – based on a model similar to the 9/11 Commission that investigated the terror attacks in New York, Washington, and Pennsylvania – would look into the cyber-attacks that took place during the 2016 election cycle and make recommendations on the best way to protect our nation going forward. Cyber-attacks, in particular those from foreign intelligence services hostile to democracy, are a growing threat to candidates and political parties. They also pose a danger to nonpartisan election officials and election infrastructure, which are responsible for keeping accurate tabs on voter rolls and vote tabulation. “There is no credible doubt that Russia attacked our election infrastructure in 2016,” said Gillibrand. “We need a public accounting of how they were able to do it so effectively, and how we can protect our country when Russia or any other nation tries to attack us again. The clock is ticking before our next election, and these questions are urgent. We need to be able to defend ourselves against threats to our elections, our democracy, and our sacred right to vote. I am proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation to create a 9/11-style Commission to defend our democracy and protect ourselves against future attacks on our country.” “Hostile governments like Russia don’t believe in democracy,” said Graham. “They have shown an eagerness to meddle in elections in the United States and other democratic nations. We need to ensure we fully understand the threat they pose and the best practices to protect ourselves from future attacks. But Russia is not our only worry. We could face future attacks from North Korea, Iran, China, and others who oppose American foreign policy and reject the values we hold dear. This issue should be beyond partisan politics as it strikes at the heart of our democracy. We must take steps to ensure that we protect the integrity of our elections from hostile, outside, and foreign influences.” Members of the Commission would be selected by state election authorities and congressional leadership so that a comprehensive group of experts would be able to make recommendations to lawmakers on how to address the concerning vulnerabilities of our election systems. The Commission would do the following: Identify action steps or prevention measures which address cybersecurity vulnerabilities related to the 2016 election in the United States; Document and describe any harm or attempted harm with respect to election systems in the United States in 2016; Review foreign cyber interference in elections in other countries in order to understand additional cybersecurity threats, interference methods, and successful defense mechanisms; Make a full and complete accounting of what emerging threats and unmitigated vulnerabilities remain and identify likely threats to election systems in the United States; and Report on the recommendations of the Commission for action at the Federal, State, and local level. #####
09.15.2017	On September 13, 2017, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Bill Cassidy (R-LA), Dean Heller (R-NV), Ron Johnson (R-WI) and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) unveiled legislation to reform health care. The Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson (GCHJ) proposal repeals the structure and architecture of Obamacare and replaces it with a block grant given annually to states to help individuals pay for health care. This proposal removes the decisions from Washington and gives states significant latitude over how the dollars are used to best take care of the unique health care needs of the patients in each state. The block grant is run through CHIP and is subject to a mandatory appropriation. The grant dollars would replace the federal money currently being spent on Medicaid Expansion, Obamacare tax credits, cost-sharing reduction subsidies and the basic health plan dollars. The proposal gives states the resources and regulatory flexibility to innovate and create healthcare systems that lower premiums and expand coverage. More specifically, GCHJ: Repeals Obamacare Individual and Employer Mandates. Repeals the Obamacare Medical Device Tax. Strengthens the ability for states to waive Obamacare regulations. Returns power to the states and patients by equalizing the treatment between Medicaid Expansion and Non-expansion States through an equitable block grant distribution. Protects patients with pre-existing medical conditions. GCHJ also eliminates the inequity of three states receiving 37 percent of Obamacare funds and brings all states to funding parity by 2026. As an example, Pennsylvania has nearly double the population of Massachusetts, but receives 58 percent less Obamacare money than Massachusetts. Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson treats all Americans the same no matter where they live. Read more about GCHJ here: Updated GCHJ Legislative Text Updated GCHJ Section by Section Updated GCHJ HHS State-By-State Impact Table Endorsements and Support: President Donald Trump Vice President Mike Pence 15 Governors Back Block Grants to States for Repeal and Replace Governors Scott Walker (R-Wisconsin), Asa Hutchinson (R-Arkansas), Eric Holcomb (R-Indiana), Kim Reynolds (R-Iowa), Sam Brownback (R-Kansas), Matt Bevin (R-Kentucky), Paul LePage (R-Maine), Phil Bryant (R-Mississippi), Eric Greitens (R-Missouri), Pete Ricketts (R-Nebraska), Doug Burgum (R-North Dakota), Mary Fallin (R-Oklahoma), Dennis Daugaard (R-South Dakota), Bill Haslam (R-Tennessee) and Gary Herbert (R-Utah). Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky) Senator Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) Governor Henry McMaster (R-South Carolina) Catholic Medical Association Senator James Lankford (R-Oklahoma) Lanhee Chen, Hoover Institution Americans for Limited Government Senator Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) Philip Klein, managing editor of The Washington Examiner Quin Hilyer, Washington Examiner Theodore Kupfer, National Review Governor Doug Ducey (R-Arizona) Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-Wisconsin) Senator Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) Governor Scott Walker (R-Wisconsin) House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-California) Senator Jeff Flake (R-Arizona) The Weekly Standard Wall Street Journal 9/14/17 Wall Street Journal 9/22/17 Susan B. Anthony List and Family Research Council Former Florida Governor Jeb Bush and Alan Levine David Catron, American Spectator Alan Greenspan, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Hugh Hewitt, Nationally Syndicated Radio Host Phil Kerpen, Townhall.com Christian Coalition of America Tea Party Express Video / Audio Interviews Fox News: Graham: Health Care Bill is a Win for Federalism Graham Floor Speech on Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson Bill Introduction Press Conference Fox News: Graham to GOP on Health Care: Lead or Get out of the Way Fox News: Graham: We are sending money and power out of DC back to where you live Breitbart Radio: Graham says insist to your elected representatives we have this vote Washington Examiner: Obamacare overhaul is 'Bernie Sanders Worst Nightmare'
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Today at a press conference, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana), Dean Heller (R-Nevada), Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin) and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-Pennsylvania) unveiled legislation to reform health care. Background on the Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson (GCHJ) legislation: https://www.cassidy.senate.gov/read-about-graham-cassidy-heller-johnson GRAHAM: “If you believe repealing and replacing Obamacare is a good idea, this is your best and only chance to make it happen because everything else has failed… If you want a single-payer health care system, this is your worst nightmare.” https://youtu.be/K-0jJgN_Bx4?t=8m27s GRAHAM: “Our bill levels out an inequity in funding. It allows flexibility that Obamacare would never embrace. It gives patients a voice in health care [that] they’ll never have through a single-payer health care system.” https://youtu.be/K-0jJgN_Bx4?t=14m26s GRAHAM: “There is a lot of fight left in the Republican Party when it comes to repealing and replacing Obamacare. The reason I know that is I spent all of August [with South Carolina residents] talking about our failure [to repeal and replace Obamacare]. And nobody was very happy with the idea that the Republican Party – after seven years – promised to repeal and replace Obamacare, made an effort, failed and is apparently willing to quit.” https://youtu.be/K-0jJgN_Bx4?t=9m43s
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana), Dean Heller (R-Nevada), Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin) and former U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R-Pennsylvania) today unveiled legislation to reform health care. The Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson (GCHJ) proposal repeals the structure and architecture of Obamacare and replaces it with a block grant given annually to states to help individuals pay for health care. This proposal removes the decisions from Washington and gives states significant latitude over how the dollars are used to best take care of the unique health care needs of the patients in each state. The block grant is run through CHIP and is subject to a mandatory appropriation. The grant dollars would replace the federal money currently being spent on Medicaid Expansion, Obamacare tax credits, cost-sharing reduction subsidies and the basic health plan dollars. The proposal gives states the resources and regulatory flexibility to innovate and create healthcare systems that lower premiums and expand coverage. More specifically, GCHJ: Repeals Obamacare Individual and Employer Mandates. Repeals the Obamacare Medical Device Tax. Strengthens the ability for states to waive Obamacare regulations. Returns power to the states and patients by equalizing the treatment between Medicaid Expansion and Non-expansion States through an equitable block grant distribution. Protects patients with pre-existing medical conditions. GCHJ also eliminates the inequity of three states receiving 37 percent of Obamacare funds and brings all states to funding parity by 2026. As an example, Pennsylvania has nearly double the population of Massachusetts, but receives 58 percent less Obamacare money than Massachusetts. Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson treats all Americans the same no matter where they live. “Instead of a Washington-knows-best approach like Obamacare, our legislation empowers those closest to the health care needs of their communities to provide solutions,” said Graham. “Our bill takes money and power out of Washington and gives it back to patients and states. It takes us off the path to single payer health care – which would be a disaster – and puts us on a path toward local control. Our approach will have better health care outcomes, transparency, and sustainability than Obamacare. This bill fundamentally transforms health care in the United States.” “This past week, we heard testimony from Democrat and Republican governors and Medicaid directors who believe that, with increased flexibility and freedom from Washington, DC regulations, they can do a better job of providing coverage for the people of their state. We agree,” said Dr. Cassidy. “This amendment gives that flexibility to states while protecting patients and the federal taxpayer.” “Doing nothing to try to solve Obamacare’s failures isn’t an option. Up until last month, Nevadans living in 14 of our 17 counties were not going to be able to buy insurance on the exchange next year. On top of that, the most disadvantaged Nevadans are forced to pay a fine for a product that they cannot afford,” said Heller. “The Graham-Cassidy-Heller-Johnson plan is the most viable solution to achieving our health care reform goals by recognizing Obamacare’s failed one-size-fits-all approach and returning power to the states. I thank Senators Graham and Cassidy for their leadership, and I urge my colleagues to join us in supporting a plan that allows our governors and legislatures the flexibility to support programs that are currently working in our states and to explore new options to address coverage and cost.” “Obamacare continues to collapse, and we have no choice but to address this problem head on,” Sen. Johnson said. “Returning more health care decisions to the states and ensuring equal treatment for states like Wisconsin that spend taxpayer dollars wisely will allow local leaders to tailor their health care system to the needs of its citizens while maintaining protections for those with high cost and pre-existing conditions.” ##### ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND MATERIAL AVAILABLE: GCHJ Legislative Text GCHJ Frequently Asked Questions GCHJ Section by Section GCHJ Model GCHJ Formula Description ENDORSEMENTS: Letter of Support from former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan The Weekly Standard DOCUMENTS WEBSITE: https://www.cassidy.senate.gov/read-about-graham-cassidy-heller-johnson
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released this statement today on Hurricane Irma. “Our thoughts and prayers are with all those impacted by Hurricane Irma in South Carolina, the Southeast and the Caribbean. Help is on the way. “I also appreciate the close coordination between the Trump Administration and emergency response personnel in South Carolina and other states in Irma’s path.” ####
09.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released this statement today on the 16th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 attacks on our nation. “We will never forget the men and women who lost their lives on September 11, 2001 – sixteen years ago. We will also never give in to the forces who attacked us. “The struggle continues, but over the arc of time the forces of evil will be defeated. Contrary to conventional wisdom, time is on our side – not those of the terrorists.” ####
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released this statement on today’s vote on the continuing resolution (CR). “I very much support Hurricane Harvey relief funding and my heart goes out to those in Texas who have lost so much during that terrible storm and subsequent flooding. I continue to keep them in my thoughts and prayers. “But I do not support a continuing resolution that locks in defense spending that is below acceptable levels and denies the military the ability to engage in long-term planning. Our men and women in uniform deserve better. The 90-day CR – with defense spending set at sequestration levels – continues a problem for our military that should have been fixed a long time ago. “Finally, a 90-day debt limit increase does not give the economy the certainty we need. “On balance, this was not a good deal.” ####
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today reacted to the latest news on North Korea and President Trump’s decision to end the Deferred Action For Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program with a six month delay. Graham is the lead sponsor of the Dream Act, which would allow immigrant students who grew up in the United States to earn lawful permanent residence and eventually American citizenship. (Background: Graham, Durbin Introduce Bipartisan Dream Act to Give Immigrant Students a Path to Citizenship). On North Korea: GRAHAM: “To those who say there’s no military option, you’re wrong. There is a military option at last resort. I don’t want to use it, but it’s got to be on the table because without that there will never be a diplomatic end to this.” https://youtu.be/F7FaLBDwScs?t=4m59s GRAHAM: “There are a lot of things we can do short of war, but I hope the President won’t capitulate to North Korea’s demands… I don’t mind sitting down with North Korea. I just don’t want them to have a nuclear weapon to hit America.” https://youtu.be/F7FaLBDwScs?t=4m31s On DACA and the Dream Act: GRAHAM: “General Kelly and others could, I think, put together a very good border security plan. And of all the people in America who have credibility on securing the border, I would put President Trump at the top because he made this a central issue of his campaign.” https://youtu.be/VViJtoReAxA?t=2m46s GRAHAM: “I think the President was right to terminate the program [DACA] but give us six months to fix the problem.” https://youtu.be/LeK9VacPOfA?t=17s GRAHAM: “Here’s where the President is so helpful and important: He can help us in the House. He got the health care bill through the House by getting personally involved. I think he could be a good spokesman for this compromise of border security plus the Dream Act.” https://youtu.be/LeK9VacPOfA?t=1m50s GRAHAM: “When Republicans say we should not legalize people until we start addressing the fundamentals of a broken immigration system – they’re not wrong.” https://youtu.be/LeK9VacPOfA?t=2m47s GRAHAM: “There’s a deal to be made between the Dream Act and border security. But the President has to lead that effort in the House [of Representatives].” https://youtu.be/F7FaLBDwScs?t=2m26s Click below to watch Sen. Graham’s full interviews from this morning. NBC’s TODAY Show: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F7FaLBDwScs Fox News’ Fox and Friends: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LeK9VacPOfA CNN’s New Day: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VViJtoReAxA ####
09.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released this statement today on Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA). “If President Trump chooses to cancel the DACA program and give Congress six months to find a legislative solution, I will be supportive of such a position. “I have always believed DACA was a presidential overreach. “However, I equally understand the plight of the Dream Act kids who -- for all practical purposes -- know no country other than America. “If President Trump makes this decision we will work to find a legislative solution to their dilemma. “I have introduced legislation to solve this problem along with Senator Durbin. I look forward to working with President Trump and my colleagues in Congress to find a fair solution to this difficult problem.” ####
08.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke with Hugh Hewitt about health care, Afghanistan, and cable TV. On health care: GRAHAM: “The President’s frustrated. I’ve been on your show, and this block grant approach [Graham-Cassidy-Heller] is taking off like you would not believe. We had a great meeting yesterday. I think we’re going to pull a rabbit out of a hat on health care reform. But the President is frustrated. For seven years, we promised to repeal and replace. You just can’t move on and say all right, well, we tried our best when we have not.” https://youtu.be/-NGkQsWYRbk?t=1m56s On Afghanistan: GRAHAM: “It was an excellent speech. He made a wise choice. He followed the generals’ advice to turn around a war we can’t afford to lose.” https://youtu.be/-NGkQsWYRbk?t=11m57s On President Trump and cable TV: GRAHAM: “So here’s what I would tell the President. Stop watching cable TV. Nobody else watches it… And I said Mr. President, you’re watching MSNBC at 11:00 [p.m.] If you stop watching it, their audience goes down by half.” https://youtu.be/-NGkQsWYRbk?t=12m24s GRAHAM: “Quit watching this junk. Who cares what, you know, Don Lemon’s a fine fellow, but he’s paid to be, their audience wants to hear Don Lemon say something bad about Trump. People watch Fox who will say something good about Trump. If you watch MSNBC, let me tell you why I hate Trump more than you do. It’s all a game. It’s all about ratings. It’s all about making money. It’s all about, you know, people feeling, you know, like they have something in common with somebody, this validation of feelings. Stop watching cable TV, and you know, come up with an agenda and stick to it.” https://youtu.be/-NGkQsWYRbk?t=13m
08.18.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued this statement on the President’s planned briefing from the National Security Council on national security issues, including strategy for Afghanistan “Today is a big day for American national security. I encourage President Trump to listen to his generals. He has an outstanding national security team advising him on terrorism and the way forward in Afghanistan. At the end of the day, Afghanistan is about American homeland security – not building empires. “I hope President Trump, unlike his predecessor, will not put our military in a bad spot in Afghanistan. He should give them the tools and support they need to confront the rising terror threats in Afghanistan. Today, our diplomatic efforts are non-existent in Afghanistan and the same is true in neighboring Pakistan. “If we were to pull all our troops from Afghanistan it would be a disaster for our national security interests and set the stage for another 9/11 on American soil.” #####
08.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Charlottesville. “Mr. President, like most I seek to move our nation, my state, and our party forward - toward the light - not back to the darkness. “Your tweet honoring Miss Heyer was very nice and appropriate. Well done. “However, because of the manner in which you have handled the Charlottesville tragedy you are now receiving praise from some of the most racist and hate-filled individuals and groups in our country. For the sake of our Nation -- as our President -- please fix this. “History is watching us all.” #####
08.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements. “Mr. President, I encourage you to try to bring us together as a nation after this horrific event in Charlottesville. Your words are dividing Americans, not healing them.” ************* “Through his statements yesterday, President Trump took a step backward by again suggesting there is moral equivalency between the white supremacist neo-Nazis and KKK members who attended the Charlottesville rally and people like Ms. Heyer. I, along with many others, do not endorse this moral equivalency. “Many Republicans do not agree with and will fight back against the idea that the Party of Lincoln has a welcome mat out for the David Dukes of the world. ************* “Finally, my thoughts and prayers will be the family and friends of Ms. Heyer as they remember and honor her today.” #####
08.10.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke with Hugh Hewitt about the threat posed by North Korea. GRAHAM: “…We will not allow North Korea to have an ICBM with a weapon on top to hit the American homeland. We’re not going to contain the threat. We’re going to deny that capability, and our policy has changed dramatically, and we’re trying to make sure that our allies and our enemies know that.” https://youtu.be/jnOaKH-B3-Q?t=1m2s GRAHAM: “We can’t afford to capitulate here. We capitulated in the past to evil people, and always lived to regret it. This is a circumstance that you cannot accommodate. It is unacceptable from my point of view to give the North Korean leader the ability to strike America.” https://youtu.be/jnOaKH-B3-Q?t=14m16s GRAHAM: “…Commentators on another network said last night that North Korea was a rational actor… Look at the human rights report on North Korea. Rational people do not do what Kim Jung Un has done to his own people. I don’t believe it’s in our national security interest for anybody to need to put nuclear weapons on top [of a missile] to hit America.” https://youtu.be/jnOaKH-B3-Q?t=1m51s GRAHAM: “From my point of view, not only should we deny them the ability to hit the American homeland with a nuclear-tipped missile, we should deny them the ability to grow their nuclear arsenal, because one day, they could sell this stuff. It’s not good for him [Kim Jong Un] to have a bunch of nuclear weapons. I don’t want to welcome him into the club. I’d like to kick him out.” https://youtu.be/jnOaKH-B3-Q?t=3m41s GRAHAM: “War will only happen if China completely fails in stopping North Korea. And China could do more if they choose. I want China to have two bad choices. I want China to have the choice of having to deal with a nutjob in their backyard, which would be very unpleasant and rein him in, or have a war in their backyard.” https://youtu.be/jnOaKH-B3-Q?t=5m43s GRAHAM: “His [President Trump’s] rhetoric yesterday, I think, is a change that is probably necessary. Everybody who spoke before him failed. Every smart person on TV who talks about what Trump should do when it was their turn to deal with North Korea, they failed miserably. There’s no place for him to kick the can down the road. So I’m 100% confident that if President Trump had to use military force to deny the North Koreans the capability to strike America with a nuclear-tipped missile, he would do that. And he’s going to listen to sound military advice, but he’s made a decision in his own mind not to let that happen on his watch.” https://youtu.be/jnOaKH-B3-Q?t=12m24s ###
08.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on the White House nominating Don Coggins and Marvin Quattlebaum as federal district court judges for South Carolina. “We very much appreciate President Trump nominating Don Coggins and Marvin Quattlebaum as federal district court judges for South Carolina. Both men are outstanding choices for these important positions. They are accomplished lawyers and highly respected in the legal field. They are also men of great character. Having two more federal district court judges in South Carolina is much-needed and overdue. “We again express our gratitude to President Trump for putting these nominees forward. We expect they will be overwhelmingly confirmed by the members of the United States Senate.” ###
08.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today on Fox News reacted to the leaks of transcripts of President Donald Trump’s calls with foreign leaders. GRAHAM: “Nobody is above the law in America and you don’t have the right, if you work in the White House or you’re a holdover from the Obama Administration or you’re a professional bureaucrat, to take the law into your own hands. That’s not the way we work here. So somebody needs to go to jail. I applaud [Attorney General] Jeff Sessions for trying to find out who’s doing this ‘cause they’re hurting the ability of the country to function and they’re hurting the presidency itself.” https://youtu.be/joeIfBthXaM?t=2m55s BREAM: “What do you think it’s going to take for these leaks to stop?” GRAHAM: “For somebody to go to jail. I’ve never seen anything like it. You know, everyone leaks in the town [Washington, D.C.], but I’ve never seen transcripts of presidential phone calls on the front page of the Washington Post. How would you like to be a world leader talking to President Trump? So this undermines his ability to be an effective president. It’s got to stop.” https://youtu.be/joeIfBthXaM?t=2m21s
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Sens. Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Cory Booker (D-New Jersey) today introduced bipartisan legislation that would create a judicial check on the executive branch’s ability to remove a special counsel. Senators Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island) and Richard Blumenthal (D-Connecticut) are cosponsors of the effort. The Special Counsel Independence Protection Act (SCIPA) ensures that any action by the Attorney General or Acting Attorney General to remove a special counsel from office must first be reviewed by a panel of federal judges. “Checks and balances have served the country well for the past two hundred years. Our legislation would allow judicial review of the firing of any special counsel that was impaneled to look at the President or their team – regardless of party. I think this is a good check and balance, both for today and in the future. We should all be interested in making sure that special counsels have oversight. Special counsels must act within boundaries, but they must also be protected. Our bill allows judicial review of any decision to terminate a special counsel to make sure it’s done for the reasons cited in the regulation rather than political motivation. I think this will serve the country well. I look forward to working with my Democratic and Republican colleagues to make this law,” said Senator Graham. "A special counsel's duty is to follow the facts and the law wherever that leads,” Senator Booker said. “They should never be subjected to interference or intimidation because of where an investigation takes them. This bill would subject any decision to fire a special counsel to a review by a panel of federal judges, ensuring any removal is for legitimate reasons instead of political motivations." “The President and his White House want nothing more than to end Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation and avoid the consequences it may yield. This bill would ensure they do not. It also sends a signal to the President: that Congress will not tolerate the executive ignoring our Constitution, and obstructing the work of the Department of Justice and our judicial system,” said Senator Whitehouse. “The American people must be able to trust that Special Counsel Mueller can follow the facts wherever they lead. We will ensure that they can.” “This measure seeks to forestall a potential constitutional crisis raised by President Trump’s ominous ongoing threats of improperly firing the current special counsel,” said Senator Blumenthal. The specter of Presidential action against Robert Mueller – designed to stop or stymie a vitally necessary criminal investigation of the President himself – makes safeguarding the special counsel urgently necessary. Congress must act, right away, to check this potential Presidential abuse of power. Even the threat of such political interference, constituting potential obstruction of justice, undermines the special counsel’s investigation. Only judicial review can check such possible abuse and eliminate any doubt about special counsel’s ability to hold accountable all lawbreakers. Make no mistake: this investigation will continue and conclude fairly and fully.” SCIPA ensures that any special counsel may only be removed by the Attorney General after petitioning a federal court to establish that there was or is misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or other good cause for removal. Full text of the bill is attached and can be found here. ###
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Bob Corker (R-Tennessee) today praised Senate Foreign Relations Committee passage of legislation demanding the Palestinian Authority end its policy of rewarding terrorism. The Taylor Force Act, legislation introduced by Graham and Corker this week, would restrict U.S. economic aid to the West Bank and Gaza until the Palestinian Authority stops paying terrorists guilty of violence against Israelis and Americans. The bill is named after a Vanderbilt University graduate student who was killed in a terrorist attack in Tel Aviv last year. “I want to thank Chairman Corker for bringing the Taylor Force Act up for consideration,” said Graham. “This bill shines a light on the very real problem of ‘Pay to Slay.’ Taylor was an American hero who was brutally murdered at the hands of terrorists. Yet instead of condemning this horrific attack – and so many others like it – the Palestinian Authority rewards terrorists. These rewards for terrorist attacks are inconsistent with American values. They are inconsistent with decency. And they are certainly inconsistent with peace. Simply put, you can’t be a partner in peace when you are paying people to commit acts of terror. It is long past time to let the Palestinian Authority know that these practices are wholly unacceptable.” “We absolutely cannot accept a policy that rewards acts of terrorism like the one that tragically took the life of Taylor Force,” said Corker, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. “This legislation will force the Palestinian Authority to make a choice: either face the consequences of stoking violence or end this detestable practice immediately. I thank Senator Graham for his important role in this effort and look forward to this bill becoming law.” Text of the bill is available here. #####
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the proposal to restrict legal immigration. “I've always supported merit-based immigration. I think we should always want to attract the best and brightest to the United States. “Unfortunately, the other part of this proposal would reduce legal immigration by half, including many immigrants who work legally in our agriculture, tourism and service industries. “South Carolina’s number one industry is agriculture and tourism is number two. If this proposal were to become law, it would be devastating to our state’s economy which relies on this immigrant workforce. “South Carolina’s agriculture and tourism industry advertise for American workers and want to fill open positions with American workers. Unfortunately, many of these advertised positions go unfilled. Hotels, restaurants, golf courses and farmers will tell you this proposal – to cut legal immigration in half -- would put their business in peril. “Finally, I fear this proposal will not only hurt our agriculture, tourism and service economy in South Carolina, it incentivizes more illegal immigration as positions go unfilled. After dealing with this issue for more than a decade, I know that when you restrict legal labor to employers it incentivizes cheating.” #####
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Russia, Iran and North Korea sanctions signed into law by President Trump. “I'm very pleased to see President Trump signed new sanction legislation against Russia, Iran and North Korea. All three regimes represent threats to world order and to our way of life. This was necessary. “As to Russia, this was long overdue as they have tried to turn American democracy upside down. As to Iran, they are the cancer of the Middle East. As to North Korea, they represent a threat to the homeland.” #####
08.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced an updated version of the Taylor Force Act with Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Corker (R-Tennessee). The legislation cuts off funding to the Palestinian Authority (PA) until they end the practice of "Pay to Slay" by which the PA pays terrorists, and the surviving family of terrorists, monetary awards for killing American and Israeli citizens. The updated legislation also spells out the steps by which payments to the PA could resume. Taylor Force was a former U.S. Army officer who was part of a Vanderbilt University tour group visiting Israel when he was brutally stabbed and killed by a Palestinian terrorist. Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah faction praised the terrorist as a “heroic martyr” and the Palestinian Authority has refused to publicly condemn the terrorist attack. Taylor’s parents and South Carolina residents, Stuart and Robbi Force, have been strong advocates for ending the practice of “Pay to Slay” and have urged Congress to pass Graham’s legislation. “I want to thank Chairman Corker for bringing the Taylor Force Act up for consideration,” said Graham. “This bill shines a light on the very real problem of ‘Pay to Slay.’ Taylor was an American hero who was brutally murdered at the hands of terrorists. Yet instead of condemning this horrific attack – and so many others like it – the Palestinian Authority rewards terrorists. These rewards for terrorist attacks are inconsistent with American values. They are inconsistent with decency. And they are certainly inconsistent with peace. Simply put, you can’t be a partner in peace when you are paying people to commit acts of terror. It is long past time to let the Palestinian Authority know that these practices are wholly unacceptable.” “We absolutely cannot accept a policy that rewards acts of terrorism like the one that tragically took the life of Taylor Force," said Corker. "This legislation will force the Palestinian Authority to make a choice: either face the consequences of stoking violence or end this detestable practice immediately." The Graham-Corker legislation: Cuts off funding for the Palestinian Authority until they stop "Pay to Slay" payments and repeal the laws authorizing them; Calls on donor countries providing budgetary assistance to the PA to cease direct budgetary support until the PA stops all payments incentivizing terror attacks; Urges the United States Ambassador to the United Nations to highlight the PA payments for acts of terrorism and urge other members nations of the Security Council and the UN General Assembly to join the United States in calling for the PA to end this payment system immediately; and Urges the State Department to work to highlight the issue of Palestinian Authority “Pay to Slay” payments with other nations and outside governmental organizations in order to immediately end this horrific practice. Funding to the PA could only resume when the Secretary of State certifies to Congress that the PA: Has terminated payments for acts of terrorism against American and Israeli citizens after being fairly tried and who have been imprisoned for such acts of terrorism, including the family members of the convicted individuals; Has revoked any law, decree, regulation or document authorizing or implementing a system of compensation for imprisoned individuals that uses the sentence or period of incarceration to determine the level of compensation paid; and Is taking credible steps to end acts of violence against American and Israeli citizens that are perpetrated by individuals under its jurisdictional control such as the one which killed American Taylor Force. The committee is scheduled to amend and vote on Graham’s bill tomorrow, Thursday, August 3. #####
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today reintroduced legislation that would amend the U.S. Constitution to clearly protect the rights of parents as they raise their children. The legislation is cosponsored by U.S. Senators Roy Blunt (R-Missouri), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), James Risch (R-Idaho) and Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa). Importantly, the legislation empowers parents to make decisions over the type of education their child receives. It also ensures that disabled parents’ rights are not infringed upon. “The rights of parents are under assault from bureaucrats who think they know what’s best for someone else’s child,” said Senator Graham. “Parental rights do not and should not end when the child leaves their home.” The Graham-Blunt-Isakson-Risch-Grassley resolution would certify that: the liberty of parents to direct the upbringing, education, and care of their children is a fundamental right; the parental right to direct education includes the right to choose, as an alternative to public education, private, religious, or home schools, and the right to make reasonable choices within public schools for one’s child; neither the United States nor any State shall infringe these rights without demonstrating that its governmental interest as applied to the person is of the highest order and not otherwise served; the parental rights guaranteed by this article shall not be denied or abridged on account of disability; this article shall not be construed to apply to a parental action or decision that would end life; and no treaty may be adopted nor shall any source of international law be employed to supersede, modify, interpret, or apply to the rights guaranteed by this article. #####
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Christopher Wray being confirmed as Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). “I am pleased the Senate has confirmed Mr. Wray as the next Director of the FBI. As he demonstrated in his confirmation hearing, Mr. Wray has the experience, judgement, temperament and background to lead the bureau. “Mr. Wray knows the Department of Justice (DOJ) well and I enjoyed my interactions with him during his tenure as head of the Criminal Division. As a former top DOJ official, he compiled an impressive record as a prosecutor. He’s also well-respected throughout the legal profession. “Today’s bipartisan show of support is indicative of Wray’s professionalism and commitment to independence. I have no doubt the FBI is in good hands with Mr. Wray at the helm.” #####
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on health care reform. ON OBAMACARE "SKINNY REPEAL" “I voted yes on the Obamacare ‘skinny repeal’ amendment this morning. I want to be clear, this was not a great piece of legislation – far from it. It was bare-bones legislation which did not meet my goals of repealing and replacing Obamacare. “I made it clear before the vote that it should never become law. But this morning, after speaking with everyone from President Donald Trump to Vice President Mike Pence to Speaker Paul Ryan to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, I was assured it would not become law, but rather serve as another step in the legislative process. “The Obamacare ‘skinny repeal’ would have given us an opportunity for the House of Representatives and Senate to go to conference to work together on a better piece of legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare. “Unfortunately, we were one vote short of moving forward and continuing that process.” ON THE PATH FORWARD “Today I went to the White House and met with President Trump on a proposal I introduced – along with Senator Bill Cassidy (R- Louisiana) and Senator Dean Heller (R-Nevada) – that returns money to the states and allows states to tailor health care plans that meet the needs of their own citizens. “I had a great meeting with the President and know he remains fully committed to repealing and replacing Obamacare. President Trump was optimistic about the Graham-Cassidy-Heller proposal. I will continue to work with President Trump and his team to move the idea forward. “The legislation was also drafted hand-in-hand with our governors who would be responsible for implementing solutions in their individual states – and who know their citizens better than the bureaucrats in Washington. “Instead of having a one-size-fits-all solution from Washington, the Graham-Cassidy-Heller proposal says we should return dollars back to the states to address each individual state’s health care needs. “Just like no two patients are the same, no two states’ health care needs are the same. “One of the biggest benefits of this approach is it will end the drive toward a national single payer health care system by taking money and power out of Washington and returning it to the people. FINAL THOUGHTS “Through this debate, I’ve cast votes to repeal Obamacare, limit President Obama’s Medicaid expansion from going even further, and remove harmful Obamacare mandates. I’m disappointed that we weren’t able to pass any of these initiatives at this time. “With this morning’s vote, Obamacare will now recede from the front pages of our websites, newspapers, and television sets, but Obamacare will continue to unravel. “Over the coming days and weeks I will continue to seek ways to remove the burdens of Obamacare from South Carolinians who are suffering under its weight. You deserve better.” #####
07.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the announcement that Secretary of Homeland Security John F. Kelly would replace Reince Priebus as the White House Chief of Staff. “Reince Priebus has been a good friend for a very long time. He did a terrific job at the RNC and has been a devoted Chief of Staff to the President from the beginning. He has great relationships with members of Congress and he should be proud of his service. “The selection of Secretary Kelly as the new Chief of Staff will bring unparalleled leadership skills to the job. “Secretary Kelly is one of the strongest and most natural leaders I’ve ever known. As a Marine Corps officer, he instilled loyalty, respect and admiration from all who served under him. As Secretary of Homeland Security, he has been very effective in engaging members of Congress and communicating a coherent message for the President. Secretary Kelly has earned respect and admiration from both sides of the aisle and will be a tremendous asset to the President as Chief of Staff. “I’m a firm believer that past performance is the best indicator of future behavior. With this in mind, the President is in good hands with Secretary Kelly.” #####
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly passing the Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act by a vote of 98-2. “I’m very pleased that the Senate has overwhelmingly passed the Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act. “This sends a powerful statement to the strongman thug in Russia, the religious Nazis in Iran, and the crazy dictator in North Korea. It was a good day for freedom and a bad day for oppression. “I look forward to this legislation soon becoming law.” #####
07.26.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after voting for the Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) amendment to repeal Obamacare. The amendment stipulates that Obamacare be dismantled and gives Congress two years to present a replacement package. The vote failed 45-55. “Today I voted to repeal Obamacare – with a replacement to come at a date certain. “As for a replacement, the solution I support is very simple – send the money back to the states and give them the power to spend on health care as they see fit to meet the needs of their states. Instead of having a one-size-fits-all solution from Washington, we should return dollars back to the states to address each individual state’s health care needs. Just like no two patients are the same, no two states’ health care needs are the same. “One of the biggest benefits of this approach is it will end the drive toward a national single payer health care system by taking money and power out of Washington and returning it to the people. If an individual state wants to set up a single payer system they are free to do so under this solution, but they can't drag the rest of the states with them.” #####
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly passing the Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act by a vote of 419-3. “I’m very pleased that the House of Representatives has overwhelmingly passed the Russia, Iran, and North Korea Sanctions Act. “This sends a powerful statement to the strongman thug in Russia, the religious Nazis in Iran, and the crazy dictator in North Korea. It is a good day for freedom and a bad day for oppression. “I look forward to the Senate soon passing this important legislation.” #####
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on Attorney General Jeff Sessions. “Jeff Sessions is one of the most decent people I’ve ever met in my political life. He’s a rock-solid conservative, but above all else he believes in the rule of law. Jeff understands that we are a nation of laws, not men. On occasion, I’ve vigorously disagreed with Jeff but I’ve never once doubted his integrity or sense of fair play. “President Trump’s tweet today suggesting Attorney General Sessions pursue prosecution of a former political rival is highly inappropriate. Prosecutorial decisions should be based on applying facts to the law without hint of political motivation. To do otherwise is to run away from the long-standing American tradition of separating the law from politics regardless of party.” #####
07.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released the following statement on today’s roundtable with South Carolina farmers, private property owners, businesses, South Carolina Commissioner of Agriculture Hugh Weathers, Attorney General Alan Wilson, Congressman Joe Wilson, and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt on the negative impact of the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulation. “I appreciate South Carolina Commissioner of Agriculture Hugh Weathers organizing today’s discussion with EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt to talk about the WOTUS regulation. We heard from South Carolina farmers, private property owners, forest industry personnel, power companies, and others about the overreach of this 2015 Obama regulation. “This morning, I heard countless firsthand stories of how this regulation is preventing South Carolinians from doing their jobs all the while not providing further protections for the environment. The practical effect of WOTUS is a pond, ditch, or even a puddle in some areas of South Carolina is viewed as a navigable waterway under WOTUS. “I applaud Administrator Pruitt for coming to South Carolina to listen, learn and continue the dialogue. I know he is committed to restoring the proper balance between the federal government, states, and the private sector. I look forward to working with him to replace this ill-conceived regulation with something that makes sense and better balances the needs of our environment with the needs of private property owners.” ###
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana) today held a conference call with Republican governors and health policy advisors on their proposal for health care reform. Graham and Cassidy released this statement following today’s call: “We had a productive discussion today with a number of Republican governors on the Graham-Cassidy proposal. We’re thankful for their time and input. “The governors understand that no two states are the same. What works for health care in one state may not work in another. South Carolina is different than Louisiana. It’s one of the main reasons Obamacare has not lived up to the promises made by its creators. It was designed as a one-size fits all solution with Washington in total control. “Obamacare has shown that coercing states and patients into a system that was not designed with their needs in mind does not work. Our proposal moves in the other direction by returning power to states and the people. It would empower states to craft solutions specific to the needs of their citizens. “Each state would receive a set level of federal assistance based on the size of its eligible population, cost of care and other factors. If a state’s eligible population grew, the amount it received would likewise increase. Congress would set the guidelines to ensure adequate coverage and requirements covering preexisting conditions would stay in place. But states would be free to craft their own system to best address the needs of patients in their states.” #### BACKGROUND: Last week, Graham and Cassidy brought forward a new approach to health care reform that would redirect much of the current federal funding for Obamacare health insurance – an estimated $110 billion in 2016 – and future funding directly to the states to use for health care spending. Read more about Graham-Cassidy: http://bit.ly/2tjxZ96
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) today introduced the Dream Act, which would allow immigrant students who grew up in the United States to earn lawful permanent residence and eventually American citizenship. These young people, known as Dreamers, have lived in America since they were children, built their lives here, and are American in every way except for their immigration status. However, under current law they live in fear of deportation and have no chance to ever become citizens and fulfill their potential. “These young people have lived in America since they were children and built their lives here,” said Graham. “There is support across the country for allowing Dreamers -- who have records of achievement -- to stay, work, and reach their full potential. We should not squander these young people’s talents and penalize our own nation. Our legislation would allow these young people – who grew up in the United States – to contribute more fully to the country they love. They have a powerful story to tell and this may be an area where both parties can come together.” “Hundreds of thousands of talented young people who have grown up in our country are at risk of deportation to countries they barely remember. I’ll do everything in my power as a United States Senator to protect these Dreamers and give them the chance to become American citizens so they can contribute to a brighter future for all Americans,” said Durbin. “I first introduced the Dream Act 16 years ago and I’ll continue fighting until it becomes the law of the land. I thank Senator Graham for partnering with me in this bipartisan effort.” The Dream Act would allow these young people to earn lawful permanent residence and eventually American citizenship if they: Are longtime residents who came to the U.S. as children; Graduate from high school or obtain a GED; Pursue higher education, work lawfully for at least three years, or serve in the military; Pass security and law enforcement background checks and pay a reasonable application fee; Demonstrate proficiency in the English language and a knowledge of United States history; and Have not committed a felony or other serious crimes and do not pose a threat to our country. A one-pager of the Dream Act is available here. A section-by-section of the Dream Act is available here.
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with President Trump at the White House. “We had a great meeting with President Trump and my Senate Republican colleagues on the path forward to Repeal and Replace Obamacare. The gap has been closed in terms of member objections but we aren’t there yet. The current McConnell bill is much better than Obamacare. “There is strong interest for sending more money back to the states and creating less control in Washington in terms of health care reform. I will continue working to get Republican Governors on board for this new approach.” #### BACKGROUND: Last week, Graham and Senator Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana) brought forward a new approach to health care reform that would redirect much of the current federal funding for Obamacare health insurance – an estimated $110 billion in 2016 – and future funding directly to the states to use for health care spending. Read more about Graham-Cassidy: http://bit.ly/2tjxZ96
07.13.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today brought forward a new approach to health care reform that would redirect much of the current federal funding for Obamacare health insurance – an estimated $110 billion in 2016 – and future funding directly to the states to use for health care spending. Graham has worked with Senator Bill Cassidy (R-Louisiana), a medical doctor, on the latest proposal. “Obamacare is going to collapse,” said Graham. “Instead of having a one-size-fits-all solution from Washington, we should return dollars back to the states to address each individual state’s health care needs. Just like no two patients are the same, no two states’ health care needs are the same. A solution that works in California may not work in Virginia. “A state like Vermont has expressed interest in a state-government run and financed single-payer system like they have in Canada,” said Graham. “If they want to again continue down that path, they would be free to do so under this proposal. South Carolina, on the other hand, would likely go in a different direction and use the federal funding to make private health care more affordable and available. “Either way, the state would have a pot of money from the federal government to get the best health care outcomes for their residents. “These funds are already being spent on Obamacare but instead of having Washington decide, we’ll empower each individual state to choose the path that works best for them,” continued Graham. “It’s time we empower those closest to people to work toward better health care that fits the needs of their citizens.” Under Graham’s proposal: Federal dollars currently spent on Obamacare health insurance – an estimated $110 billion in 2016 -- would be block-granted to the states. The individual mandate and employer mandate instituted under Obamacare would be repealed under Senate reconciliation rules which only require 50 votes. The Obamacare requirements covering pre-existing conditions would be retained. The Obamacare medical device tax would be eliminated but other Obamacare taxes would remain in place. Federal Medicaid funding to the states will continue to grow in a sustainable manner, adjusted for inflation. Provides additional flexibility to the states to ensure health care dollars are spent in a manner providing the most effective and efficient coverage based on their health care needs and populations. Federal funds would be restricted to health care spending only. These funds could be distributed by the states in the forms of tax credits, subsidies, health savings account premiums, and other means as the individual states see fit to meet their health care needs. ######
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Christopher Wray, nominee to be the next director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). In June, Graham came out in support of the Wray nomination calling him, “an exceptional choice to serve as Director of the FBI.” Graham said: “[Mr. Wray] has the experience, judgement, temperament and background to be a strong FBI Director. Mr. Wray knows the Department of Justice (DOJ) well and I enjoyed my interactions with him during his tenure as head of the Criminal Division. As a former top DOJ official, he compiled an impressive record as a prosecutor. He’s also well-respected throughout the legal profession.” GRAHAM: “Are you familiar with the email problems we’ve had with Donald Trump Jr. the last few days?” WRAY: “I have not Senator. I have heard that there is an issue but...” GRAHAM: “…Let me ask you this. If I got a call from somebody saying the Russian government wants to help Lindsey Graham get reelected, they’ve got dirt on Lindsey Graham’s opponent. Should I take that meeting”? WRAY: “Senator I would think you’d want to consult with some good legal advisers before you did that.” GRAHAM: “So the [question] is, should I call the FBI?” WRAY: “I think it would be wise…” GRAHAM: “… So here’s what I want you to tell every politician: If you get a call from somebody suggesting that a foreign government wants to help you by disparaging your opponent, tell us all to call the FBI.” https://youtu.be/VzawbjQc4iM?t=1m34s GRAHAM: “Do you believe the Russians [hacked] into the DNC and Podesta’s emails? Do you believe the conclusions?” WRAY: “…I have no reason to doubt the conclusions of the intelligence community.” https://youtu.be/VzawbjQc4iM?t=5m53s GRAHAM: “I’m asking you, as the future FBI Director, do you consider this endeavor [Special Prosecutor Robert Mueller’s investigation] a witch hunt?” WRAY: “I do not consider Director Mueller to be on a witch hunt.” https://youtu.be/VzawbjQc4iM?t=8m
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on a bill he introduced, the Taylor Force Act, to end the Palestinian Authority’s practice of providing monetary rewards to terrorists and their families who kill Americans and Israeli citizens. Taylor Force was a West Point graduate and United States Army veteran who was visiting Israel as a part of a Vanderbilt University program. He was brutally stabbed and killed by a Palestinian terrorist. The Palestinian Authority praised Force’s killer as a ‘heroic martyr’. Just last week, President of the Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas said he will not stop the practice of paying terrorists, even if he has to step down. Graham was joined at today’s hearing by Taylor’s father and South Carolina resident, Stuart Force. **** Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Corker on Graham’s leadership with the Taylor Force Act: CHAIRMAN CORKER: “I don’t know if anything could have been better said than what you just did. I think it lends tremendous momentum to this effort. We thank you for introducing the legislation that you introduced. Obviously having the relationship you have with Mr. Force and the family, and working with us – I thank you... I think we’re getting to a place where we can have an overwhelming bill to do exactly what it is you just said.” https://youtu.be/VW_8PI4w9q8?t=5m58s **** GRAHAM: “[Taylor Force’s] death has to matter. It’s got to mean something. This committee and Congress has a chance to make sure it means something.” https://youtu.be/VW_8PI4w9q8?t=2m11s GRAHAM: “[Taylor Force’s] father can probably tell you better than I can, but I think he represents everything good about our country… You’d be proud to call him your son.” https://youtu.be/VW_8PI4w9q8?t=1m28s GRAHAM: “This law [the Taylor Force Act] which you understand very well, will stop American payments to the Palestinian Authority unless they stop paying their kids to kill other people.” https://youtu.be/VW_8PI4w9q8?t=3m29s GRAHAM: “Here’s what [the President of the Palestinian Authority Mahmoud] Abbas said last week: ‘Even if I will have to leave my position,’ he declared [last] week in response to U.S. and Israel pressure, ‘I will not compromise on the salary of a martyr or a prisoner.’ So that’s his position.” https://youtu.be/VW_8PI4w9q8?t=3m48s GRAHAM: “I insist that they [Palestinian Authority] stop paying their young people to become terrorists and I don’t want our tax dollars used to support any government that would do that.” https://youtu.be/VW_8PI4w9q8?t=4m27s GRAHAM: “It’s got to hurt for Stuart and Robbi [Taylor’s parents] to know that the taxes they pay go to a Palestinian Authority who rewards the killer of their son. There is no good explanation for this. And this committee has the opportunity to send a signal to Mr. Abbas and everyone else that this position of the Palestinian Authority, Mr. Chairman and Ranking Member, is inconsistent with a two-state solution, inconsistent with peace and we need to stop our emboldening of this practice.” https://youtu.be/VW_8PI4w9q8?t=4m43s ****
07.10.2017	WASHINGTON – On Wednesday, the Senate Foreign Relations Committee will hold a hearing on legislation sponsored by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), The Taylor Force Act, that would cut off funding to the Palestinian Authority if they continue their policy of paying monetary rewards to terrorists and their surviving family members. Taylor Force was a former U.S. Army officer who was part of a Vanderbilt University tour group visiting Israel when he was brutally stabbed and killed by a Palestinian terrorist. Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah faction praised the terrorist as a “heroic martyr” and the Palestinian Authority has yet to condemn the terrorist attack. Taylor’s parents and South Carolina residents, Stuart and Robbi Force, have been strong advocates for ending the practice of “pay to slay” and have urged Congress to pass Graham’s legislation. Graham is set to deliver opening remarks before the committee on Wednesday at 10:00 a.m. The hearing will also be streamed on the committee website. Graham said: “This bill shines a light on a very real problem. Taylor was an American hero who was brutally murdered at the hands of terrorists. Yet instead of condemning this horrific attack – and so many others like it – the Palestinian Authority rewards terrorists. “These rewards for terrorist attacks are inconsistent with American values. They are inconsistent with decency. And they are certainly inconsistent with peace. Simply put, you can’t be a partner in peace when you are paying people to commit acts of terror. “It is long past time to let the Palestinian Authority know that these practices are wholly unacceptable. “I want to thank Chairman Corker for bringing the Taylor Force Act up for consideration. I urge my colleagues to swiftly approve this bill so we can get it passed and signed into law.” ### Background: Graham Press Conference on the Taylor Force Act (VIDEO)
07.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued the following statement on President Trump’s speech in Warsaw, Poland. In his speech, Trump condemned Russian aggression and stated America’s strong commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Last month in a historic vote, the Senate unanimously passed Senator Graham’s resolution reaffirming the United States’ commitment to Article 5 of NATO. “President Trump delivered an excellent and much-needed speech today in Poland. He strongly reaffirmed our commitment to ‘collective defense’ set forth by Article 5 of NATO, called out Russian aggression, and eloquently explained how America is safer being aligned with western democracies who share our values. “The speech – along with the decision for the U.S. to increase natural gas sales to Poland, and to provide Patriot missile batteries for Polish defense – is a great way to enter bilateral meetings with Putin. “Putin will only respect President Trump and America if we stand strong with our allies and push back against Russian provocation. This is a great start to an important week of American foreign policy.” ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) welcomed the announcement today that Samsung Electronics America will be opening a new facility in Newberry, South Carolina. Graham joined U.S. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster, Samsung President & CEO Tim Baxter, Samsung Executive Vice President Won-Kyong Kim, and South Korea’s Vice Minister for Trade Lee In-Ho for today’s announcement in Washington. The new facility is expected to bring nearly 1,000 jobs to the area by 2020. The facility will manufacture home appliances, including washing machines. “Congratulations and thanks to South Carolina Governor Henry McMaster who worked tirelessly to help bring this facility to South Carolina. I truly appreciate his leadership and diligence in solidifying this new venture. Newberry and the surrounding communities will greatly benefit from today’s announcement. “I also appreciate the role Secretary Ross has played in helping bring additional investment and economic development to American shores. As Secretary of Commerce he understands manufacturing is an important part of our national economy and job creation is job one. “As a global leader in technology, Samsung could have gone anywhere to locate its new facility, but chose to invest in South Carolina because it is a great place to do business. Samsung’s new plant will inject millions of dollars into Newberry and serve as a catalyst for further investment across the Palmetto State. I am excited we are strengthening South Carolina’s collaboration and partnership with Samsung. It will pay dividends for both in the years to come.” ###
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is seeking information about alleged political interference by the Obama Administration’s Attorney General Loretta Lynch during the FBI’s investigation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s use of a private email server. Graham, along with Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein (D-California) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island) made the request for information this week. The bipartisan inquiry comes as the Judiciary Committee is examining the circumstances surrounding the removal of James Comey as FBI Director. In April, The New York Times reported that the FBI came into possession of a batch of hacked documents, one of which was said to be authored by a “Democratic operative who expressed confidence that Ms. Lynch would keep the Clinton investigation from going too far.” Chairman Grassley then requested a copy of the document from the Justice Department, which has failed to respond. A month later, The Washington Post reported similar facts and provided further details about individuals involved in these communications. The Post reported that the email in question, sent by then-chair of the Democratic National Committee Debbie Wasserman Schultz to Leonard Benardo of the Open Society Foundations, indicated that Lynch had privately assured Clinton campaign staffer Amanda Renteria that the FBI’s investigation wouldn’t “go too far.” Comey was reportedly concerned that the communication would raise doubts about the investigation’s independence and began discussing plans to announce the end of the Clinton email investigation rather than simply referring it to the Department for a prosecutorial decision. Comey’s extraordinary action to announce the end of the investigation was a break from Justice Department protocol, and was later cited as justification for his removal from the FBI. In their letters to Benardo, Open Society Foundations’ General Counsel Gail Scovell, Renteria and former Attorney General Lynch, Graham and the Senators seek details about the reported communication, copies of any related documents and whether the FBI contacted them to investigate the alleged communication. The reports come amidst numerous allegations of political inference in controversial and high-profile investigations spanning the current and previous administrations. The Senate Judiciary Committee has jurisdiction over the FBI and Justice Department and is obliged to oversee any potential misconduct or inappropriate political influence at these agencies. ##### Copies of the letters are available on the Senate Judiciary Committee website. Letter to Mr. Leonard Benardo Letter to Ms. Gail Scovell Letter to Ms. Renteria Letter to former Attorney General Loretta Lynch
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the Better Care Reconciliation Act of 2017, which was released today. “I will carefully review this legislation to ensure that if it were to become law, it would be beneficial to the people of South Carolina. “Every day brings fresh evidence that Obamacare is moving toward eventual collapse. There are now more than 40 counties across the United States which will not have a health care provider offering coverage on the Obamacare exchange. “In South Carolina, the situation is not much better as we are down to one provider on our Obamacare exchange, and that provider has expressed doubts about whether they can afford to continue to offer their product. “I would prefer to address health care reform in a bipartisan manner, but Democrats are unwilling to work with President Trump and Congressional Republicans to fix the mess they created. “Finally, South Carolinians want Obamacare repealed and replaced with something better. Only after a careful review of the legislation will I be able to determine if this bill achieves those goals.” #####
06.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), along with Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein (D-California) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island) today made the following statement after holding a bipartisan meeting with Special Counsel Bob Mueller regarding investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 elections and the circumstances surrounding the removal of former FBI Director James Comey: ”We had a very productive discussion with Special Counsel Mueller today on our parallel investigations to ensure each can proceed without impeding the other. We appreciate Special Counsel Mueller’s willingness to meet with us, and both parties have committed to keeping an open dialogue as we proceed.” #####
06.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today released this statement applauding the Trump Administration’s overhaul of U.S. policies toward Cuba. “I am very pleased to see that President Trump is overhauling the Obama Administration policies toward Cuba. This will prove to be a good day for Cuban pro-democracy and pro-human rights advocates, and a bad day for the Castro regime. “Now, the Cuban regime must change their oppressive and thuggish behavior to earn changes in American policy. “I appreciate President Trump making these important changes in American policy toward Cuba. Well done Mr. President.” #####
06.15.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement following the Senate’s passage of legislation placing new sanctions on Iran and Russia. The vote in the Senate was 98-2. The Senate legislation initially only contained sanctions on Iran, but overwhelmingly added a provision sponsored by Graham, which also sanctions the Russian regime of Vladimir Putin. (Background: Graham: Russia Sanctions Deliver Clear Message To Putin) “Since signing the nuclear agreement, Iranian behavior has not gotten better – it’s actually gotten worse. “Iran is still the largest state sponsor of terrorism in the world. They are supporting groups that have toppled pro-Western governments throughout the Middle East. They have humiliated and unlawfully imprisoned American sailors on the high seas. And they continuously and flagrantly violate U.N. restrictions on their missile program. “These new sanctions will be a strong statement by the Congress and the Trump Administration – that business as usual with Iran is over. “I’m extremely pleased by the overwhelming bipartisan support to impose new sanctions on Iran for their destructive behavior throughout the Middle East.” #####
06.15.2017	Graham’s Article 5 Amendment Passes 100-0 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham’s resolution reaffirming the United States Senate’s commitment to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was adopted by a 100-0 vote. “Article 5 states that an attack on one NATO nation is an attack on all,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “This is an important founding principle of NATO and the concept of ‘collective defense.’ Today’s overwhelming vote should reassure our allies and give notice to our enemies that America stands firmly in support of NATO and our Article 5 commitment.” The resolution: affirms the United States remains fully committed to NATO and will honor its obligations enshrined in Article 5; expresses the vital importance of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, the charter of NATO, as it continues to serve as a critical deterrent to potential hostile nations and terrorist organizations; remembers the first and only invocation of Article 5 by NATO was in support of the United States after the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001; condemns any threat to the sovereignty, territorial integrity, freedom, or democracy of any country that is a member of the NATO. “For almost seven decades, the principle of ‘collective defense’ has helped protect the security of the United States as well as our NATO allies,” said Graham. “I’m very proud of the overwhelming vote by the U.S. Senate to reaffirm Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty and our continued support for this incredibly important alliance which has served our nation well.” #####
06.14.2017	Supports Increase In Troop Level In Afghanistan WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the decision to allow Secretary of Defense Mattis to set the troop level in Afghanistan. Graham was a vocal opponent of the Obama Administration’s ill-advised decision to reduce American forces in Afghanistan. “I greatly appreciate being briefed today by Vice President Pence and National Security Advisor Lieutenant General McMaster about President Trump’s thought process and decisions regarding Afghanistan. “The decision to allow the Secretary of Defense – a seasoned military leader – to set troop levels in Afghanistan, combined with an integrated diplomatic and regional strategy, is long overdue and will make America safer. Simply put, President Trump has taken out an insurance policy against another 9/11 being planned from Afghanistan’s soil. “I have never been more pleased with President Trump as Commander in Chief than I am right now. Job well-done Mr. President.” Earlier today, Graham spoke about the situation in Afghanistan and questioned Secretary Mattis and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Dunford on the Trump Administration’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal for the Department of Defense. Click here or below to watch the full exchange.
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate passing an amendment Graham sponsored to increase sanctions on Russia. The vote in the Senate was 97-2. “I’m very pleased that we could reach a bipartisan agreement to punish Russia for interfering in our election. “Today’s sanctions vote serves as a punch to the nose to Putin and his cronies in Russia. It reinforces the fact that we will not stand by and allow them to interfere in our affairs without facing repercussions. “While I do not believe Russian interference changed the outcome of the election, there is no doubt their computer hacking and cyber interference created chaos. “Finally, combining Iran and Russia sanctions will send the right signal at the right time to both regimes who are wreaking havoc throughout the world.” The amendment adopted today imposes comprehensive sanctions on Russia for its cyber intrusions, aggression, and destabilizing activities in the United States and around the world. It also incorporates legislation Graham supported that would require congressional oversight of any decision to ease sanctions on Russia. Specifically: The amendment codifies existing sanctions into law and makes them mandatory. Imposes new sanctions on transactions with the Russian defense and intelligence sectors, including the agency primarily responsible for the attack on the 2016 U.S. election. Imposes new sanctions that would target the energy sector, which is controlled by Vladimir Putin’s cronies, with sanctions on investments in Russian petroleum and natural gas development as well as Russian energy pipelines. The amendment also mandates congressional oversight of any decision to provide any relief from these sanctions. Administrations cannot waive or lift these sanctions without certifying that Russia is taking concrete steps toward changing its behavior on the international stage. In particular, Russia needs to begin adhering to the Minsk Protocol, roll-back its occupation of Crimea and destabilizing activities in Ukraine, and cease its cyber operations aimed at undermining democracy in the United States and Europe. Finally, because of Russia’s repeated attempts to undermine elections and challenge the very foundation of democracy, this legislation authorizes $250 million to support and strengthen democratic institutions in Europe against Russian propaganda and interference. #####
06.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the arrest of members of the Russian opposition and their leader, Alexei Navalny, amid protests against Vladimir Putin across Russia. “My thoughts and prayers are with the brave members of the Russian opposition and their leader, Alexei Navalny, who are standing up to Putin. “My problem is with Putin – not the Russian people. In many ways, the Russian people have suffered the most from Putin’s tyrannical actions. “The sacrifice of these brave people will pay off in the end, as Russia will grow weary of Putin’s thuggery and thievery.” #####
06.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) urged the Trump Administration not to return two diplomatic compounds in the United States to Russia. Intelligence reports indicate that the two compounds — one in New York and one in Maryland — were used by the Russian government for intelligence-related purposes. In response to Russia’s unprecedented interference in the 2016 election and repeated harassment of U.S. diplomats in Moscow, the U.S. government enacted sanctions against Russia, revoked diplomatic credentials to 35 Russian officials, and seized the two Russian compounds. “These properties were seized because 17 U.S. intelligence agencies confirmed that Russia used covert cyberattacks, espionage, and harmful propaganda to try and undermine our democracy, in addition to the fact that U.S. diplomats in Russia faced repeated harassment from Russian security services. We need to stand strong and stand united so that Russia and other nations know that this aggression will not go unchecked,” said Graham. “Russia has a pattern of waging attacks against democracies across the world. For years, our allies have been subjected to Russian aggression and invasions,” said Graham. “Over time, Russia has grown more determined in its effort to weaken democracies and expand its sphere of influence. As Secretary Mattis recently said, ‘Russia is choosing to be a strategic competitor to the West…and Russia’s violations of international law are now a matter of record.’ “Returning the compounds to Russian control is unjustifiable. It would both make it easier for the Kremlin to continue its intelligence operations in our own backyard and make it clear that they can avoid consequences for their actions,” concluded Graham. #####
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, called on Professor Daniel Richman, a friend of former FBI Director James Comey, to provide any memos Comey shared with him to be leaked to the media. Graham was joined by Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein (D-California) and Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island). Comey testified before Congress yesterday that he provided copies of his memos regarding his interactions with President Trump to “a good friend” so they could be shared with the media in hopes of spurring the appointment of a special prosecutor to review whether Trump campaign associates illegally colluded with Russia to influence the 2016 elections. In his testimony, Comey also said he would encourage his friend to release the memos. Richman reportedly confirmed that he was the friend Comey had referenced in his testimony. Portions of one memo were reported in The New York Times shortly after Comey was removed as FBI Director. In a letter last night to Richman, Graham, Grassley, Feinstein and Whitehouse, called on Richman to provide the memos to the Judiciary Committee to assist with its oversight of the Justice Department and FBI. The senators had previously requested copies of the memos from the FBI and from Comey directly. Comey refused to cooperate at the time, and yesterday, he testified that he no longer has copies of the memos. The FBI has thus far not provided the memos to the committee and Comey has declined an invitation to testify before the Judiciary Committee. The Senate Judiciary Committee has a constitutional duty to conduct oversight of the Justice Department, including the FBI. Full text of the senators’ letter follows. June 8, 2017 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION Daniel C. Richman, Esq. [ADDRESS] Dear Professor Richman: Today, former FBI Director Comey testified that he provided “a good friend” who is “a professor at Columbia Law School” copies of memoranda he drafted memorializing his interactions with President Trump and that he asked the friend to share the content with the press. Shortly thereafter, CNN reported that you “confirmed to CNN in an email that [you] were the friend Mr. Comey was referencing in his testimony.”[1] Mr. Comey also stated that he no longer retains copies of the memoranda himself. Senator Cotton asked Mr. Comey if he would encourage his friend at Columbia to release the memos, to which he replied: “sure.” Mr. Comey’s memoranda are relevant to the Judiciary Committee’s ongoing investigative efforts. Mr. Comey himself has encouraged you to release them. Accordingly, we ask that you provide the Committee copies of all memoranda you received from Mr. Comey by no later than June 9, 2017. If you received the memoranda in electronic format, we request that you provide them to the Committee in the same file type you received. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. If you have any questions, please contact Patrick Davis of Chairman Grassley’s staff at (202) 224-5225, Heather Sawyer of Ranking Member Feinstein’s staff at (202) 224-7703, Lee Holmes of Chairman Graham’s staff at (202) 224-5972, or Lara Quint of Ranking Member Whitehouse’s staff at (202) 224-2921. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Dianne Feinstein Chairman Ranking Member Committee on the Judiciary Committee on the Judiciary Lindsey Graham Sheldon Whitehouse Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Committee on the Judiciary Committee on the Judiciary ##### [1] Zachary Cohen, Why James Comey Leaked Information to the Press, CNN (June 8, 2017). Available at http://www.cnn.com/2017/06/08/politics/james-comey-leaking-memo/
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Fort Jackson as the five millionth soldier completed Basic Combat Training (BCT) at the U.S. Army installation. “I want congratulate South Carolina’s Fort Jackson, as the five millionth soldier has just completed the Basic Combat Training (BCT) program. “Fort Jackson has a deep and proud history. For 100 years, Fort Jackson has helped the U.S. Army train and fulfill needs for disciplined and skilled soldiers in times of war and peace. As the U.S. Army’s largest location for BCT, Fort Jackson is responsible for training half of the entire Army’s BCT population. Fort Jackson also provides an array of services outside of BCT, including the U.S. Army’s Drill Sergeant School and Soldier Support Institute. “Today, I join the citizens of South Carolina in recognizing Fort Jackson, the soldiers, civilians and retirees employed there, and the soldiers who have been trained there. I also extend my deepest gratitude to these soldiers’ families, as they have also served and sacrificed for our country. “With the completion of each mission, Fort Jackson continues to make the Palmetto State and the United States Army proud. I will always be thankful for Fort Jackson’s dedication to protecting our great nation.” #####
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) discussed the latest news on Fox News’ Special Report with Bret Baier. On Obamacare: GRAHAM: “Well, here’s the deal. Not one Democrat wants to help us [the Republicans] replace Obamacare… Here’s my concern: I don’t know if with 50 votes – using reconciliation – we can fully repeal and replace Obamacare. As a matter of fact, I don’t think we can. We can make a substantial down payment on change, but here’s what I would do. They created this mess. It’s collapsing before us all. As Republicans, let it collapse. Go to the Democrats and say we told you so, now help us replace it.” https://youtu.be/_9sMU9G6kxo?t=3m22s GRAHAM: “They created this mess, Bret, not us. We told them it would collapse. So Mr. President, don’t own something that you don’t have to own.” https://youtu.be/_9sMU9G6kxo?t=5m51s ******** On Attorney General Jeff Sessions: BAIER: “Today the [White House] Press Secretary didn’t answer the question, said he did not have the discussion with the president on whether he had full support for the attorney general. Do you know whether he does?” GRAHAM: “I don’t know, but he should. Jeff Sessions is a good man, Mr. President. He had to recuse himself. I know you’re not a lawyer, there was no way Jeff Sessions could continue to preside over this investigation given the role he played in the campaign. He did the right thing. He is a good man.” https://youtu.be/_9sMU9G6kxo?t=7m ******* On the fight against ISIL: GRAHAM: “I appreciate President [Trump] unleashing the military, giving more capability to our commanders… He’s actually giving the military the chance to do some things in Mosul and Raqqa we haven’t been able to do before.” https://youtu.be/_9sMU9G6kxo?t=1m32s ******* On former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee: BAIER: “It seems like it’s the Super Bowl in Washington. Thursday morning’s Jim Comey testimony – what do you expect? GRAHAM: “A high school game. I expect that he’s not going to say the president obstructed justice. If he [the president] did, why would you continue to work for a man who you thought obstructed justice?” https://youtu.be/_9sMU9G6kxo?t=6m GRAHAM: “He [Comey] should answer this question: is the president a target or subject of a criminal investigation? I don’t believe the President of the United States is a target or subject of an investigation regarding collusion between him and the Russians. And I think the [former] FBI Director owes an answer to that question to the country.” https://youtu.be/_9sMU9G6kxo?t=6m41s GRAHAM: “You need to listen to your lawyers, Mr. President. I am trying to help you, but every time you tweet it makes it harder on all of us who are trying to help you. I don’t think you did anything wrong. Don’t get in the way of an investigation that could actually clear you.” https://youtu.be/_9sMU9G6kxo?t=7m25s
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s intent to nominate Christopher Wray as the new Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). “Mr. Wray is an exceptional choice to serve as Director of the FBI. He has the experience, judgement, temperament and background to be a strong FBI Director. “Mr. Wray knows the Department of Justice (DOJ) well and I enjoyed my interactions with him during his tenure as head of the Criminal Division. As a former top DOJ official, he compiled an impressive record as a prosecutor. He’s also well-respected throughout the legal profession. “I look forward to Mr. Wray’s confirmation hearings and learning more about his vision for the FBI.” #####
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas), Richard Blumenthal (D-Connecticut) and Ed Markey (D-Massachusetts) introduced a bill that would increase pensions for Medal of Honor recipients. The Medal of Honor is the highest award for valor in action against an enemy force which can be bestowed upon an individual serving in the Armed Services of the United States. Generally presented to its recipient by the President of the United States of America in the name of Congress. The senators noted these American heroes often attend and speak at events about their military service at their own expense. This increase will allow them to tell their stories even more broadly. In addition, it’s been fifteen years since the last stipend increase was passed in 2002. Currently, there are 72 living Medal of Honor recipients. “Medal of Honor recipients represent the best among us. These heroes have served our country with distinction, and this modest increase is the least we can do to convey our gratitude for their sacrifices. I urge my colleagues to support this bill so that we can do right by our Medal of Honor recipients,” said Graham. “We can never repay our Medal of Honor recipients for everything they’ve done for our country. But we can and should support them on behalf of a grateful nation,” said Cotton. “Medal of Honor recipients are a model of service and sacrifice that should inspire all of us to aim higher and do better. Supporting this small group of brave servicemen and women is simply the right thing to do,” said Blumenthal. “These brave men and women are our heroes’ heroes. We are committed to honoring and providing for our nation’s greatest servicemembers who went above and beyond the call of duty with no thought to reward or personal safety,” said Markey. The Graham-Cotton-Blumenthal-Markey bill would: Increase the Medal of Honor pension from $1,303.51 to $3,000 a month. Provide necessary funding to allow Medal of Honor recipients to share their personal stories in even more character development programs and speaking engagements. Cost approximately $15 million over a 10-year period. ####
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), member of the Senate Budget Committee, today questioned Director of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Mick Mulvaney on the Trump Administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year (FY) 2018. GRAHAM: “But here’s what the president needs to do. He needs to look people in the eye and tell them that [doing nothing about Medicare and Social Security insolvency] is an impossible promise if you’re serious about getting out of debt. Now, Mr. President, quit playing the game that everyone else plays up here. By 2042, Medicare and Social Security alone will consume all the revenue sent to Washington. That’s the projection.” https://youtu.be/qZiHkKeDOwI?t=3m32s GRAHAM: “You can’t skip over Medicare, you can’t skip over Social Security if you’re serious about preventing us from becoming Greece. And to skip over these programs is to allow them to die over time. The one thing I would say to my Republican colleagues who believe you don’t need entitlement reform, including the president: To keep us from becoming Greece, you’re wrong. And Mr. Mulvaney, you know the right solution.” https://youtu.be/qZiHkKeDOwI?t=3m57s ###
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased with a portion of President Trump’s spending proposal – put together in consultation with South Carolina’s Mick Mulvaney – that addresses the Charleston Harbor Deepening Project. Mulvaney is the current Director of the White House’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB). “The $17.5 million for Charleston in the Army Corps of Engineers FY 2017 Work Plan keeps us on track for accelerated completion of the project,” said Graham, who has led congressional efforts to secure federal funding for the harbor deepening project. “In addition, Charleston was designated as a ‘new start’ by the Army Corps,” continued Graham. “This is great news on both the spending and designation fronts. It allows construction to move full-speed ahead. I appreciate the work done by Director Mulvaney and the Army Corps in getting this right. It will pay dividends for Charleston, the state of South Carolina and nation in years to come.” Graham noted that under its FY2018 Budget, the Trump Administration will reward projects like the Charleston Harbor Deepening Project – and the state of South Carolina -- for their willingness to forward-fund projects. He stated that several years ago the South Carolina General Assembly set aside $300 million for the Charleston Harbor Deepening Project. The advanced funds prove to federal authorities South Carolina is serious about completing the harbor deepening project in an expedited manner. “In the Army Corps portion of the budget, I think the Trump Administration has drawn a line – if you want your harbor deepened you better be willing to put up money on the front end to prove your interest,” said Graham. “They want to reward innovative approaches like Charleston.” “From the start, South Carolina’s local community, business industry, state government, and congressional delegation have been ‘All In’ on the Charleston Harbor Deepening Project,” said Graham. “A big thanks to the South Carolina legislature’s leadership, particularly Senator [Hugh] Leatherman, for forward funding this important project. We’ve been more than ready and willing to pay our share to get moving. Their work on the front end helped make this all possible. “Finally, I want to thank Governor Henry McMaster for the important role he played in helping secure these funds,” concluded Graham. “No one in South Carolina has the ear of the Trump Administration more so than Henry McMaster. His efforts were indispensable.” #####
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made these statements on the Trump Administration’s budget and the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility at the Savannah River Site (SRS). “I was hoping the Trump Administration’s budget proposal would mark a clean break from Obama’s failed approach to MOX. Instead, it appears they are doubling-down. “This budget proposal, much like the Obama Administration’s, embraces a process of ‘dilute and dispose’ for surplus weapons-grade plutonium. There are several shortcomings with this approach. First, it has already been considered. Second, it was rejected. “The reasons were clear. It violates an important international non-proliferation agreement. It also doesn’t take into consideration the legislative and regulatory changes needed to store the excess material underground. And it fails to account for the political opposition, on both sides of the aisle, that is likely to occur and will undoubtedly result in extended delays. This plan will strand the material in place – which is unacceptable. The only option with a clear disposition path is MOX. “In Congress, I will continue to work with the members of our delegation and Secretary of Energy Rick Perry on the correct path forward. I think we should work toward a fixed lifetime contract negotiated between the Department of Energy and the contractor. Let’s see if we can get a better price in place without crippling this important national security program.” ####
05.22.2017	WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), joined by four senators and 14 members of the U.S. House of Representatives, sent a letter to Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Mick Mulvaney asking him to reevaluate the process for calculating the Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) for specific Army Corps of Engineer programs. As it currently stands, the calculation does not give due credit to projects that secure non-federal funding in order to complete projects as quickly as possible. The senators believe the current process puts some projects – if they acquired non-federal funding – at a disadvantage. “By advancing project funds or through private investment, non-federal sponsors are ensuring projects are completed in as expeditious a manner as possible and are not subject to delays caused by the federal budget process. Completing a project quickly ensures the lowest cost possible for the federal government and delivers the economic benefits of these critical infrastructure projects years before they might otherwise be enjoyed. “We share your passion for stewardship of taxpayer dollars and a more efficient federal budget process. We also believe in a level playing field when it comes to competing for federal investment. In light of this, we respectfully request you evaluate the method for calculating BCRs and give equitable consideration to projects with an advanced Project Partnership Agreement (PPA) or public-private partnership (P3) during consideration of the fiscal year 2018 budget request,” wrote the members. In addition to Graham the letter was signed by Senators Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Heidi Heitkamp (D-North Dakota), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), and John Hoeven (R-North Dakota). Members of the House of Representatives who signed the letter include Representatives Joe Wilson (R-South Carolina), James Clyburn (D-South Carolina), Kevin Cramer (R-North Dakota), John Delaney (D-Maryland), Jeff Duncan (R-South Carolina), John Garamendi (D-California), Trey Gowdy (R-South Carolina), Al Lawson (D-Florida), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-New York), Tom Rice (R-South Carolina), John Rutherford (R-Florida), Mark Sanford (R-South Carolina), Daniel Webster (R-Florida) and Rodney Davis (R-Illinois). ###### The full text of the letter is below. Director Office of Management and Budget 725 17th Street NW Washington, DC 20503 Director Mulvaney: We write to you in regards to the current process for calculating the Benefit-Cost Ratio (BCR) for United States Army Corps of Engineers Navigation and Flood Risk Management projects. We believe the current process mischaracterizes the true cost to the federal government by failing to account for modern Project Partnership Agreements (PPAs) and public-private partnerships (P3s). In an effort to avoid some of the uncertainty of the federal appropriations process, some non-federal sponsors elect to pursue advanced PPAs or in some cases, a P3, to move the projects forward. This allows local communities and their non-federal sponsors to begin spending non-federal money for the project immediately, while assuming all risk associated with beginning the project prior to receiving federal new start funding. This commitment highlights the immense value that local and state governments see in the economic impact their project will have upon completion, despite the chance of not being reimbursed. However, perhaps most important and most concerning, the current BCR calculation methodology incorrectly assumes all dollars spent on a project are federal dollars when determining the project’s economic impact, despite the fact that in many instances a substantial portion of the money spent comes from a non-federal source that cannot be reimbursed or through private investment. Importantly, advanced PPAs and P3s provide significant value to the federal government and to the nation. By advancing project funds or through private investment, non-federal sponsors are ensuring projects are completed in as expeditious a manner as possible and are not subject to delays caused by the federal budget process. Completing a project quickly ensures the lowest cost possible for the federal government and delivers the economic benefits of these critical infrastructure projects years before they might otherwise be enjoyed. We share your passion for stewardship of taxpayer dollars and a more efficient federal budget process. We also believe in a level playing field when it comes to competing for federal investment. In light of this, we respectfully request you evaluate the method for calculating BCRs and give equitable consideration to projects with an advanced PPA or P3 during consideration of the fiscal year 2018 budget request. Please do not hesitate to contact us with any questions. We look forward to working with you to ensure the success of federal projects in our states.
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued the following statement on former FBI Director James Comey's decision to testify before the Senate Intelligence Committee and not the Senate Judiciary Committee. "I very much appreciate former FBI Director Comey's willingness to publicly testify about his conversations with President Trump and other relevant matters. "I am surprised he will do so given the fact we now have a Special Counsel who will likely be investigating matters related to their conversations. "I completely concur with the Judiciary Committee Chairman and Ranking Member that if former Director Comey testifies he should do so before both the Intelligence and Judiciary Committees. "The Judiciary Committe has primary responsibility for FBI oversight. I certainly want former Director Comey to be able to tell his side of the story in regards to President Trump. I also want to ask him about the massive and repeated leaks coming from the FBI. Specifically, who would have access and be in a position to read memos, allegedly written by former Director Comey, to the New York Times regarding his meetings with President Trump about the Russia investigation." ###
05.19.2017	WASHINGTON – This week, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) joined a bipartisan group of senators to introduce legislation – The Building and Renewing Infrastructure for Development and Growth in Employment Act (BRIDGE) – to help states and localities better leverage private funds to repair and replace our nation’s outdated infrastructure. “Now more than ever we need to identify a long-term funding solution for our infrastructure needs. The BRIDGE Act is a common sense proposal that would bring together private sector investments and public sector resources to finance important infrastructure projects. Our proposal would ensure taxpayer dollars are used responsibly, and help create jobs,” said Graham. To help address this funding shortfall for our nation’s transportation, water and energy infrastructure, the BRIDGE Act: Establishes an independent, nonpartisan financing authority to complement existing U.S. infrastructure funding. The authority would provide loans and loan guarantees to help states and localities fund the most economically viable road, bridge, rail, port, water, sewer, and other significant infrastructure projects. Supplies initial seed funding of up to $10 billion, which could incentivize private sector investment and make possible $300 billion or more in total project investment. Structures the authority to make it self-sustaining over time without requiring additional federal appropriations. In December 2016, Senator Graham signed a letter to then-President-elect Donald Trump urging him to support the BRIDGE Act and prioritize spending for infrastructure needs in South Carolina and across the nation. The American Society of Civil Engineers latest estimate shows that in order to close the $2.0 trillion 10-year investment gap, meet future need, and restore our global competitive advantage, we must increase investment from all levels of government and the private sector from 2.5% to 3.5% of U.S. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by 2025. As of 2012, of the more than 600,000 bridges in the U.S., 24.9 percent were either functionally obsolete or structurally deficient. Nationally, our bridges are, on average, 42 years old, and need an estimated $76 billion to repair and replace. Similarly, the average age of the 84,000 dams in the country is 52 years old, and the Association of State Dam Safety Officials estimates that aging and high-hazard dams require an investment of $21 billion to repair. For more information on key provisions of the BRIDGE Act, click here. ###
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Marco Rubio (R-Florida) and Dean Heller (R-Nevada) introduced a resolution to urge the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and the relocation of the U.S. embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.‎ In 1995, Congress passed the Jerusalem Embassy and Relocation Act, legislation that recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel by moving the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Although the bill became law later that year, the U.S. Embassy was not moved to Jerusalem. In order to encourage the implementation of the law, this resolution expresses the Sense of the Senate that the U.S. Embassy should be moved to Jerusalem. “In my view, Jerusalem is the undeniable capital of Israel. “This resolution restates what has been said by most members of the Senate time and time again. Moving our embassy from Tel Aviv to western Jerusalem is not inconsistent with any peace proposal. It is consistent with the reality – as I and many others understand it – that the capital of Israel is Jerusalem.” The full text of the resolution can be found below: Whereas each sovereign nation, under international law and custom, may designate its own capital; Whereas, since 1950, the city of Jerusalem has been the capital of the State of Israel; Whereas the city of Jerusalem is the seat of Israel’s President, Parliament, Supreme Court, and the site of numerous government ministries and social and cultural institutions; Whereas the city of Jerusalem is the spiritual center of Judaism and is also considered a holy city by members of other religious faiths; Whereas Jerusalem must remain an undivided city in which the rights of every ethnic and religious group are protected as they have been by Israel since 1967; Whereas, this year, we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the reunification of Jerusalem and reaffirm the congressional sentiment that Jerusalem must remain an undivided city; Whereas every citizen of Israel should have the right to reside anywhere in the undivided city of Jerusalem; Whereas the President and the Secretary of State should publicly affirm as a matter of United States policy that Jerusalem must remain the undivided capital of the State of Israel; Whereas the President should immediately implement the provisions of the Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995 (Public Law 104–45) and begin the process of relocating the United States Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem; Whereas United States officials should refrain from any actions that contradict United States law on this subject; and Whereas any official document of the United States Government which lists countries and their capital cities should identify Jerusalem as the capital of Israel: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate that— (1) it should be the policy of the United States to recognize Jerusalem as the undivided capital of the State of Israel both de jure and de facto; and (2) the United States Embassy should be relocated to Jerusalem. ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “I do not believe in trial by newspaper article or investigations based on anonymous sources. “However, it is important that Congress call the former FBI Director James Comey before the Judiciary Committee to obtain a full understanding of what President Trump may or may not have done regarding the Russian investigation, including General Michael Flynn. “I’m hopeful we can reach agreement in a bipartisan fashion on how to move forward in a professional manner. The country deserves answers to the questions raised and former Director Comey deserves an opportunity to be heard and if appropriate, challenged. “The sooner Mr. Comey testifies publicly before the Judiciary Committee, the better for our nation. For all practical purposes the political process will be ground to a halt by these allegations. “It is imperative we move forward on this matter in a professional and serious manner. “I will not continue to speculate on press reports. I intend to spend my time and energy creating a process that will allow us to get to the truth. I will follow the facts – wherever they may lead.” #####
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON – Senate Judiciary Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee Chairman Lindsey Graham and Ranking Member Sheldon Whitehouse, along with Committee Chairman Chuck Grassley and Ranking Member Dianne Feinstein, today called on the FBI to provide all memos relating to former FBI Director Comey’s interactions with his superiors in both the Trump and Obama administrations. They also called on the White House to provide records of interactions with former Director Comey, including any audio recordings. The requests follow news reports that Comey authored internal memos following meetings and conversations with President Trump in order to document what he perceived to be improper behavior by the President with respect to ongoing investigations at the FBI. The president implied in a tweet last week that the White House may have recordings of interactions with Comey. In a letter to Acting FBI Director Andrew McCabe, the Judiciary Committee leaders request “all such memos, if they exist, that Mr. Comey created memorializing interactions he had with Presidents Trump and Obama, Attorneys General Sessions and Lynch, and Deputy Attorneys General Rosenstein, Boente, and Yates regarding the investigations of Trump associates’ alleged connections with Russia or the Clinton email investigation.” The letter from the senators to White House Counsel Donald McGahn, seeks “all White House records memorializing interactions with Mr. Comey relating to the FBI’s investigation of alleged ties between President Trump’s associates and Russia, or the Clinton email investigation, including all audio recordings, transcripts, notes, summaries, or memoranda.” The Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, led by Chairman Graham and Ranking Member Whitehouse, is currently conducting an investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 United States elections. Committee leadership expects to hold a hearing on these matters. Full text of both letters follows. May 17, 2017 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Andrew McCabe Acting Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20535 Dear Acting Director McCabe: Yesterday, the New York Times reported that former Director Comey created memos regarding his interactions with President Trump, “a paper trail Mr. Comey created documenting what he perceived as the president’s improper efforts to influence an ongoing investigation.” The article stated that “Mr. Comey created similar memos – including some that are classified – about every phone call and meeting he had with the president.” More generally, the article stated “Mr. Comey was known among his closet advisers to document conversations that he believed would later be called into question.” Presumably, this means that Mr. Comey created similar memoranda relating to other controversial conversations, whether with officials in the current administration or the prior one. We are writing to request that the FBI provide the Committee with all such memos, if they exist, that Mr. Comey created memorializing interactions he had with Presidents Trump and Obama, Attorneys General Sessions and Lynch, and Deputy Attorneys General Rosenstein, Boente, and Yates regarding the investigations of Trump associates’ alleged connections with Russia or the Clinton email investigation. Please provide these documents by no later than May 24, 2017. We anticipate that some of these documents may be classified, some may not, and others may contain both classified and unclassified information. Please deliver any documents containing classified information to the Office of Senate Security and provide all unclassified documents directly to the Committee. If you have any specific requests with regard to the Committee’s handling of unclassified material, please raise those with us in advance. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. If you have any questions, please contact Patrick Davis of Chairman Grassley’s staff at (202) 224-5225, Heather Sawyer of Ranking Member Feinstein’s staff at (202) 224-7703, Lee Holmes of Chairman Graham’s staff at (202) 224-5972, or Lara Quint of Ranking Member Whitehouse’s staff at (202) 224-2921. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Dianne Feinstein Chairman Ranking Member Committee on the Judiciary Committee on the Judiciary Lindsey Graham Sheldon Whitehouse Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Committee on the Judiciary Committee on the Judiciary May 17, 2017 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Donald McGahn White House Counsel 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr.McGahn: Yesterday, the New York Times reported that former FBI Director Comey memorialized the content of his phone calls and meetings with President Trump in a series of internal memoranda. In particular, the article alleged that Mr. Comey had memorialized a conversation with the President in which the President made statements that have been interpreted as asking the FBI to clear Mr. Flynn of alleged wrongdoing. The article noted that Mr. Comey was known among his closet advisers to document conversations that he believed would later be called into question. Last week, the President tweeted a message implying that the White House may have audio recordings of interactions with Mr. Comey. The Judiciary Committee has already written to the FBI requesting all memos, if they exist, that Mr. Comey created memorializing interactions he had with Presidents Trump and Obama, Attorneys General Sessions and Lynch, and Deputy Attorneys General Rosenstein, Boente, and Yates regarding the investigations of Trump associates’ alleged connections with Russia or the Clinton email investigation. In order for the Committee to fully assess these allegations, we are also asking that the White House please provide the Committee all White House records memorializing interactions with Mr. Comey relating to the FBI’s investigation of alleged ties between President Trump’s associates and Russia, or the Clinton email investigation, including all audio recordings, transcripts, notes, summaries, and memoranda. To the extent the prior administration’s records of interactions with Mr. Comey about these topics may now be housed at the National Archives or elsewhere, we ask that you make the relevant personnel there aware of the request and authorize them to release the records to the Committee. Please provide the records by May 24, 2017. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. If you have any questions, please contact Patrick Davis of Chairman Grassley’s staff at (202) 224-5225, Heather Sawyer of Ranking Member Feinstein’s staff at (202) 224-7703, Lee Holmes of Chairman Graham’s staff at (202) 224-5972, or Lara Quint of Ranking Member Whitehouse’s staff at (202) 224-2921. Sincerely, Charles E. Grassley Dianne Feinstein Chairman Ranking Member Committee on the Judiciary Committee on the Judiciary Lindsey Graham Sheldon Whitehouse Chairman Ranking Member Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism Committee on the Judiciary Committee on the Judiciary
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the passing of former South Carolina Congressman Ed Young. Young served in the South Carolina State House, U.S. House of Representatives and was the South Carolina Republican Party’s nominee for Governor in 1978. Prior to his political service he also compiled a distinguished record in the Air Force. “South Carolina has lost one of her favorite sons with the passing of Congressman Ed Young. He was one of the most dedicated public servants I’ve met and epitomized a South Carolina gentleman. His family and friends have much to be proud of, and we have much to be thankful for due to the service of Congressman Young.” #####
05.09.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Director of the National Security Agency (NSA) Admiral Michael Rogers on Russia’s interference in American politics and the practice of unmasking the identities of American citizens mentioned in intelligence reports. GRAHAM: “Do you agree that it was Democrats in 2016, it could be Republicans in the next election? ROGERS: “Yes, I would argue this is not about politics. This is not about party. This is about an effort against the strategic interests of every citizen of this nation.” GRAHAM: “I agree with you one thousand percent.” https://youtu.be/zs5nFabuxOg?t=30s ***** GRAHAM: “How many people can request the unmasking of American citizens?” ROGERS: “If you’re an authorized recipient of the intelligence – we use two criteria. Number one, the requester must be asking this in the execution of their official duties. It can’t be something that would be neat to know… Number two, the revealing of the U.S. person has to provide context and greater value for the intelligence. Again, it just can’t be, ‘I’m just curious.’” https://youtu.be/zs5nFabuxOg?t=1m53s ***** GRAHAM: “So there’s a record of who made the request to unmask the conversation involving the American citizen?” ROGERS: “Yes sir.” GRAHAM: “There’s a record of whether or not you granted it.” ROGERS: “Yes sir.” GRAHAM: “Is there a record of what the person did with the information once they got it?” ROGERS: “No. There is also a record of the basis of, ‘so why did we say yes?’” https://youtu.be/zs5nFabuxOg?t=2m57s
05.09.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on FBI Director James Comey. “I know this was a difficult decision for all concerned. “I appreciate Director Comey’s service to our nation in a variety of roles. "Given the recent controversies surrounding the director, I believe a fresh start will serve the FBI and the nation well. I encourage the President to select the most qualified professional available who will serve our nation’s interests.” #####
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the House passage of legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare. “I look forward to carefully reviewing the House-passed legislation to repeal and replace Obamacare. My primary duty and job is to ensure this bill – if it were to become law – would be beneficial to the people of South Carolina. Only after a careful review of the legislation, as well as discussions with the interested stakeholders across South Carolina, will I know the answer to that question. I do know the revised bill is an improvement over the first attempt. “Obamacare is a disaster and every day brings fresh evidence that it is moving toward collapse. “Just yesterday Iowa announced that the sole statewide health care provider on the Obamacare exchange may be pulling out. In South Carolina, the situation is not much different as we are down to one provider on our Obamacare exchange. And that provider – Blue Cross Blue Shield – has already expressed doubts about whether they can afford to continue to offer their product. “Today’s House vote – where every Democrat voted in opposition – also shows that Democrats in Congress are committed to protecting Obamacare. They refuse to face up to the fact that Obamacare is on the verge of collapse. Until they accept this reality, I believe they will refuse to work with President Trump and Republicans on health care reform. “I believe it may take Obamacare’s collapse before the parties are willing to work together in a bipartisan manner. The collapse and replace of Obamacare may prove to be the most effective path forward. Only then – and by working together – can we make improvements in health care for millions of Americans.” #####
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued the following statement after Susan Rice declined his invitation to testify before the upcoming Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism hearing. Former Acting Attorney General (AG) Sally Yates and former Director of National Intelligence (DNI) James Clapper will testify before the subcommittee. “Monday’s hearing will involve former Acting AG Sally Yates and former DNI James Clapper. We’ll be asking about their knowledge of Russia’s involvement in our election. This is the first time former Acting AG Yates will testify before Congress. “Susan Rice has declined to come before the committee. During a press interview, she denied improperly unmasking the names of American citizens who were surveilled as part of incidental collection. Media reports suggest otherwise. “At an appropriate time, I expect we will continue down this path. I hope Ms. Rice will come before the committee – and not just the press.” ###
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke with CNN about government funding bill, which the Senate is expected to vote on later this week. Graham is opposed to the measure. He also discussed North Korea, health care reform and additional topics. GRAHAM: “I think the Democrats cleaned our clock. There are things in this bill that I just don't understand. This was not winning from the Republican point of view.” https://youtu.be/j1I1ZtpPYto?t=1m11s GRAHAM: “Well, you know there’s all kinds of ways to look at it. We got more money for the military. I'm for comprehensive immigration reform, but sanctuary cities go untouched. Obamacare continues to be funded in a way that we all say is illegal. The bottom line here is this whole process of funding the government where you put 12 bills into one and you don't get any input, and you vote on a bill two days after you have a chance to look at it is just bad government. So I think the Republican Party’s goal for 2018 should be to bring every appropriation bill to the floor. Stand-alone [bills] rather than these giant bills. That’s the best way to correct the system.” https://youtu.be/j1I1ZtpPYto?t=1m37s GRAHAM: “I just don’t like the process, don't like the outcome. I don't want to shut the government down, but this has got to change. This is a lousy way to run any business.” https://youtu.be/j1I1ZtpPYto?t=3m7s ###
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Pam Patenaude to become the Deputy Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “I’m pleased President Trump nominated Pam Patenaude to serve as the Deputy Secretary of HUD. She will be an excellent counselor and advisor to Secretary Ben Carson. “Pam has a deep background in housing policy and understands housing programs as well as anyone I have ever met. She will work to create more affordable housing opportunities and streamline regulations. I intend to support her nomination and appreciate President Trump for making this selection.” #####
04.27.2017	"Can you imagine growing up in a country where your government will pay you for killing someone else through a terrorist act?" asks South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham incredulously. He is the leading sponsor of the [Taylor Force Act]. … "The Taylor Force Act is a good thing. It is not a Democrat thing, it is not a Republican thing, it's not Conservative or Liberal. It is to get things going in the right direction, the way they should be. " … "It is so important that the Taylor Force Act passes, so that other sons and daughters, brothers and sisters aren't lost in this way," [Stuart Force] says. "It’s just a senseless loss." Bill in Congress would pressure Palestinian gov't to cut off terror-tied payments Fox News By Eric Shawn April 26, 2017 http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2017/04/26/bill-in-congress-would-pressure-palestinian-govt-to-cut-off-terror-tied-payments.html Taylor Force was a West Point graduate who served in Afghanistan and Iraq. He was pursuing his MBA at Vanderbilt last year, and his future was certainly very bright. "Taylor was stabbed to death while he was in Israel by a Palestinian," says his mother, Robbi, matter-of-factly. Taylor, who was 28, was walking along the Mediterranean boardwalk promenade with friends in Tel Aviv, when he was savagely knifed to death on March 8, 2016. His killer was identified as a Palestinian terrorist, 22-year-old Bashar Masalha, who authorities say went on a stabbing spree that also severely wounded ten others before he was shot dead by Israeli police. "All dads and all moms are proud of their kids. Taylor basically did everything right, but he was humble about it," says his father, Stuart. Taylor's parents say their grief was compounded by the fact that the family of their son's murderer is making money off his death. The Palestinian Authority spends hundreds of millions of dollars a year paying jihadists and their survivors who were involved in acts of terrorism, and critics say some of those funds come from U.S. taxpayer money that Washington sends to the P.A. Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas is scheduled to meet with President Trump at the White House on May 3. It is expected that Trump will raise the issue of payments during the visit. A congressional bill named for Taylor, the Taylor Force Act, would cut off the U.S. aid unless the Palestinian Authority stops the payments. "Can you imagine growing up in a country where your government will pay you for killing someone else through a terrorist act?" asks South Carolina Republican Senator Lindsey Graham incredulously. He is the leading sponsor of the Senate legislation. "If you die as a terrorist, as a 'martyr,' your family will get an annual stipend greater than the average Palestinian earns. In this case, the terrorist who killed Taylor Force...was hailed as a hero, was basically given a state funeral, and his family was given money by the state," Graham says. "The practice is inconsistent with American values, inconsistent with peace, and inconsistent with decency." The House bill is sponsored by Colorado Republican Congressman Doug Lamborn and New York Republican Congressman Lee Zeldin. "Taylor Force is an American hero," says Zeldin. "It’s about letting the Force family know that we stand with him and they stand with their son...the United States Congress and President Trump will do the right thing." Graham predicts that if the bill reaches Trump’s desk, he will sign it. The U.S. government gives the Palestinian Authority more than $300 million a year. According to the P.A.’s on-line budget, it shells out that same amount to the families, or about 7 percent of its total budget. "I think nobody, no Israeli or no American, would be happy to know that his taxpayer money is being used to be paid for families of terrorism," Israeli Ambassador to the United Nations Danny Danon told Fox News. "You actually encourage terrorism," he charges. "Our position is clear. We are against killing innocent civilians from any side," counters the Palestinian Authority Ambassador to the United Nations, Riyad Mansour. But when Fox News pressed him to comment on Taylor's case, Mansour was dismissive and would not address it. "You cannot cherry pick one case here or one case there. There are a large number of Palestinians who are receiving compensation, they are victims of Israeli terrorism or killed by Israeli soldiers." Taylor's parents say the payments to Masalha’s family were an additional shock after learning of their son's fate. Force was golfing when he suddenly received the phone call that no parent ever wants. "I was actually out on the golf course, getting some practice putts and my cell phone rang. I recognized the area code, from Nashville, where Vanderbilt is and I figured it was my son calling from Israel, and he is borrowing somebody's phone. I said, 'Hello?' and 'Mr. Force,'" I said 'yes Ma'am,' 'this is the Chaplin at Vanderbilt University, I am on a speaker phone in a room with the Dean of Students and the Provost,' and I said to myself that this is not going to be a very good phone call. "She proceeded to tell me that Taylor had been in a group of six students that had been walking to dinner, and that they had been attacked by someone who they believed was a terrorist, and he was stabbed, and he was transported to the hospital by ambulance but he didn't make it. "I sat down on the putting green and tried to collect my thoughts. She went on to say that your cell phone was his emergency contact number, and I said thank you, and I said, have you called home to talk to my wife yet? She said no we haven't, I said please don't, give me 15 minutes and let me go home. I essentially threw the clubs on the ground and drove home." "I said they had the wrong person, it's not Taylor," recalls Mrs. Force. Since that harrowing moment, the Forces and Taylor's sister, Kristen, have embarked on a deeply meaningful mission in Taylor's memory. They are trying to ensure that the incentives to commit terrorism are removed so that there will be no more victims. An important step, they say, is for Congress to pass the Taylor Force Act. "Our main mission is to spread the word about the legislation," Force says. "The Taylor Force Act is a good thing. It is not a Democrat thing, it is not a Republican thing, it's not Conservative or Liberal. It is to get things going in the right direction, the way they should be. "It is so important that the Taylor Force Act passes, so that other sons and daughters, brothers and sisters aren't lost in this way," he says. "It’s just a senseless loss." Ben Evansky contributed to this report.
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued this statement on reports that Democrats may be threatening to shut down the government over the inclusion of Obamacare cost-sharing payments. “I find it hard to believe the Democrats would shut down the government over the inclusion of Obamacare cost-sharing payments. “These payments were never authorized by Congress, were not included in previous spending bills, and the Obama Administration made these payments in violation of the law. “President Trump would be right to stand his ground against this foolish demand. To be clear, I view these payments as unconstitutional – and believe they should not be made at all. “Finally, President Trump and OMB Director Mulvaney have been very responsible in negotiations with Democrats, and are working to keep the government open. Democrats would be acting irresponsibly by insisting the government shut down over this outrageous demand.” Background: http://politi.co/2oLHb4N ###
04.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement on the release of Aya Hijazi and other humanitarian aid workers from prison in Egypt: “We join the entire nation in welcoming home Aya Hijazi and her husband Mohamed Hassanein who have been wrongly imprisoned for the last three years in Egypt. President Trump has made this case a top priority, and we applaud him for working with the Government of Egypt to secure their long-overdue release, as well as the release of four of their colleagues. “As we celebrate the return of these innocent individuals, the United States must continue to advocate for human rights in Egypt, which have been under attack by a series of executive actions and increasingly repressive laws aimed to weaken democratic institutions, limit freedom of assembly and free speech, and shut down civil society activities as well as NGOs such as the International Republican Institute, Freedom House, the National Democratic Institute and others. While we continue to support Egypt's fight against terrorism and extremism within its borders, there does not need to be a trade-off between security and human rights. We urge the Government of Egypt to build on this important first step by releasing all those who have been wrongly imprisoned, upholding its international human rights obligations, and respecting the Egyptian people's right to freedom of expression and rule of law.” ###
04.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released this statement applauding President Donald Trump for voicing his support for the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. “This is huge for South Carolina manufacturers and manufacturers across the country. I thank the President for making clear he wants the Ex-Im Bank up and running again. “The Ex-Im Bank makes money for the American taxpayer and allows American manufacturers to compete for business in the developing world on a level playing field. Well done, Mr. President.” Background: http://www.politico.com/story/2017/04/donald-trump-reverses-china-currency-manipulator-ex-im-bank-237165 ###
04.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued this statement on Russia vetoing the United Nations Security Council resolution on the investigation of the recent chemical attack in Syria. “It should come as no surprise to anyone that the Putin regime would shield the Assad regime from accountability for using chemical weapons against innocent civilians including children. To expect one war criminal to do anything other than protect another is unrealistic. “It is now time for Congress to pass sanctions against Putin’s regime for interfering in our election, as well as aiding and abetting Assad’s use of chemical weapons. The United States cannot give Putin a pass on either one of these outrageous acts.” ###
04.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement on the United States’ policy in Syria: "President Trump's decision to strike back against Assad for using chemical weapons against innocent civilians was a strong statement much appreciated by the civilized world. What is needed now is a strategy that secures U.S. and allied interests in Syria -- ending the conflict, dealing a sustainable defeat to ISIL and Al-Qaeda, and beginning to repatriate Syrian refugees to their homes. "Our strategy cannot presume to separate the fight against ISIL from the Syrian people's fight against the Assad regime. They are inextricably connected. Assad is a puppet of Iran, and as long as he continues to slaughter his own people, it will be impossible to destroy the radical terrorist groups that occupy Syria and the region, and the war will never end. Nor will the threat posed by these groups to our nation. "As part of a broader strategy, we urge the President to take greater military action to achieve our objectives, including grounding the Syrian air force and establishing safe havens inside Syria to protect Syrians. There will never be a diplomatic solution as long as Assad dominates the battlefield." ###
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) on the confirmation of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. “I was proud to cast my vote in support of Judge Gorsuch for this important position. His confirmation is a victory for conservatives in South Carolina and across the United States. “President Trump deserves a great deal of credit for selecting Judge Gorsuch. He was a homerun pick and President Trump could not have chosen a more qualified individual to serve on the highest court in the land.” #####
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement on tonight’s military strikes in Syria: “We salute the skill and professionalism of the U.S. Armed Forces who carried out tonight’s strikes in Syria. Acting on the orders of their commander-in-chief, they have sent an important message the United States will no longer stand idly by as Assad, aided and abetted by Putin’s Russia, slaughters innocent Syrians with chemical weapons and barrel bombs. “Unlike the previous administration, President Trump confronted a pivotal moment in Syria and took action. For that, he deserves the support of the American people. Building on tonight’s credible first step, we must finally learn the lessons of history and ensure that tactical success leads to strategic progress. That means following through with a new, comprehensive strategy in coordination with our allies and partners to end the conflict in Syria. The first measure in such a strategy must be to take Assad’s air force—which is responsible not just for the latest chemical weapons attack, but countless atrocities against the Syrian people—completely out of the fight. We must also bolster support for the vetted Syrian opposition and establish safe zones to address the ongoing humanitarian crisis. As we do, we can and must continue the campaign to achieve ISIS’s lasting defeat.” ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued this statement on U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley’s statement on yesterday’s chemical attack in Syria. “I appreciate the strong and articulate statement by Ambassador Haley condemning the chemical attack in Syria and laying blame at the feet of Assad and Russia. Her strong indictment of Russia was an appropriate response to the outrageous conduct of the Putin regime. Now, these strong words should be followed up by strong action. It’s simply impossible to shame the Assad and Putin regimes with words alone. “I hope President Trump and his national security team will now act decisively to reshape the situation in Syria.” ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued this statement on the chemical attack in Syria and the United States’ response. “There is no doubt in my mind that the Assad regime carried out yesterday’s horrific chemical weapons attack in Syria, killing dozens of men, women, and children. The target of the attack was the Syrian opposition and the ability to deliver the weaponry in question lies with Assad – not ISIL or the opposition. “This is the biggest test yet of the Trump presidency. The President has an opportunity to punish Assad in a way that President Obama never would. This is the moment for President Trump to prove to everyone that when it comes to foreign policy and standing up to dictators, he is not President Obama. I don’t believe this President will make the same mistakes of his predecessor when it comes to Assad. “Here at home, I hope this attack will change the rhetoric of the last few days on the question of whether Assad should stay or go. If we accept Assad as the leader of Syria, it will be a big win for Russia and Iran, and the region will continue to deteriorate at an even faster pace.” ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) appeared on Fox News to discuss the latest on allegations that President Obama’s National Security Adviser Susan Rice ordered the unmasking of names of associates of President Donald Trump. GRAHAM: “When it comes to Susan Rice, you need to verify, not trust.” GRAHAM: “I’m not going to prejudge here, but I think every American should know whether or not the National Security Adviser to President Obama was involved in unmasking Trump transition figures for political purposes. It should be easy to figure out and we will.” GRAHAM: “There’s an easy answer to this. Did she [Rice] ask [former CIA Director John] Brennan and [former Director of National Intelligence James] Clapper to unmask the incidental collection of Trump transition figures? If she did, I want to know why.” Watch the full interview here. ###
04.03.2017	WASHINGTON – Today during the Senate Judiciary Committee’s consideration of U.S. Supreme Court nominee Judge Neil Gorsuch, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) defended Gorsuch against unfair attacks made by Democrats. The Committee is expected to vote on Judge Gorsuch’s nomination later today. GRAHAM: “Here’s what I do appreciate about President Trump. He listened to people who understand what a conservative jurist is all about. He listened to a lot of people and he came up with a list that I applauded him on. I could vote for any of those 21 people he put out before the election. ” https://youtu.be/vpXz8442qkY?t=6m21s GRAHAM: “They say [since the Trump Administration] is under investigation he shouldn’t be allowed to pick. A bit of a stretch but let’s say it’s [Vice President] Mike Pence – who is he going to pick? Say something happens to him and it’s [Speaker of the House] Paul Ryan, who is he going to pick? Let’s say I got 99 percent more support than I actually did running for president , who would I have picked? I would have picked [Gorsuch].” https://youtu.be/vpXz8442qkY?t=6m42s GRAHAM: “So when I hear [Minority Leader] Senator Schumer say ‘change the nominee, don’t change the rules,’ that’s an absolute slam on a fine man. We’re not going to change the nominee.” https://youtu.be/vpXz8442qkY?t=5m50s GRAHAM to Committee Democrats: “I don’t know what hearing y’all were attending.” https://youtu.be/vpXz8442qkY?t=41s GRAHAM: “We will not have a successful filibuster of a Supreme Court nominee because if we have to, we will change the rules. And it looks like we’re going to have to. I hate that. I really, really do.” https://youtu.be/vpXz8442qkY?t=2m46s GRAHAM: “[Minority Leader] Senator Schumer… keeps talking about ‘reasonable’ and ‘mainstream’ – as if he knows what reasonable and mainstream is on our side of the aisle.” https://youtu.be/vpXz8442qkY?t=3m2s ###
03.31.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) attended the first flight of the Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner today in Charleston and released the following statement. “This is a huge day for South Carolina. The Boeing 787-10 prototype – completely made in South Carolina – took to the air today ahead of schedule and under budget. “What a statement and tribute to the Boeing South Carolina workforce. To all those in the Boeing family, today is your reward as well.” ### Background: The Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner is the newest in the line of 787 aircraft and was built entirely by Boeing South Carolina.
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports the removal of Bashar al-Assad from Syria was no longer an objective of the United States. “If the press reports are accurate and the Trump Administration is no longer focusing on removing Assad, I fear it will be the biggest mistake since President Obama failed to act after drawing a red line against Assad’s use of chemical weapons. “To suggest that Assad is an acceptable leader for the Syrian people is to ignore the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people by the Assad regime. Leaving him in power is also a great reward for Russia and Iran. “I hope these reports are not accurate, but if they are, the war in Syria will never really end as the Syrian people want Assad removed from power. Hundreds of thousands have died in the fight to accomplish exactly that goal. “Finally, this would be crushing news to the Syrian opposition and to our allies throughout the Middle East. I fear it is a grave mistake.” ####
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was a guest this morning on Fox News Channel to discuss the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. GRAHAM: “I think [Minority Leader] Senator Schumer has been consistently inconsistent… All I’m asking is that Judge Gorsuch be treated like we treated [Justices] Sotomayor and Kagan. Neither one of them had a cloture vote. The Republicans did not filibuster… All I’m asking Democrats is to do for President Trump what I and others did for President Obama, then all of this will work out.” https://youtu.be/zU7jKv8Peeo?t=3m10s GRAHAM on a Democrat opposition: “This is not anything other than Democrat politics running wild.” https://youtu.be/zU7jKv8Peeo?t=4m6s GRAHAM: “This is one of the finest men [Gorsuch] to ever serve on the bench in the history of this country. What they are saying about him upsets me. Nancy Pelosi said ‘If you breathe air and drink water this man is against you.’ I’ve pushed back when President Trump said things inappropriately about judges, but not one Democrat has pushed back against this garbage coming against Judge Gorsuch.” https://youtu.be/zU7jKv8Peeo?t=5m42s ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will hold a Town Hall meeting this Saturday in North Charleston. TOWN HALL MEETING Saturday, April 1 10:30 a.m. Trident Technical College Main Campus The College Center (Bldg. 920) 7000 Rivers Avenue North Charleston, South Carolina MAP: http://www.tridenttech.edu/about/locations/maincampus.htm ##### ADDITIONAL NOTES: Seating is on a first-come, first-served basis. Signs will not be allowed in the Town Hall since they can obstruct the view of other audience members. Doors will open at 10:00 a.m. There will be a limited number of reserved seats available for credentialed media.
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today asked his second round of questions during the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to be an Associate Justice on the Supreme Court of the United States. GRAHAM: “To my friends on the other side [of the aisle]: What are you looking for? Are you looking for [a Supreme Court nominee] that will make your political life easy?” https://youtu.be/2PlXsK8FDpc?t=9m58s GRAHAM: “So all I’m saying is if we’re going to vote against a nominee because they won’t tell us things that we want to hear about issues important to us, then the whole [judicial] nominating process has become a joke.” https://youtu.be/2PlXsK8FDpc?t=2m28s GRAHAM: “The bottom line here is we are taking the nomination process to a place it was never intended to go by the framers of the Constitution. Alexander Hamilton would be rolling over in his grave to believe that the United States Senate has now gotten to the level of where I can’t vote for [a Supreme Court nominee] if [they] won’t tell me about cases important to me and [they] don’t share my philosophy.” https://youtu.be/2PlXsK8FDpc?t=4m47s ###
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) questioned Judge Neil Gorsuch during his nomination hearing to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. GRAHAM: “So we find ourselves here today confronting a nomination of one of the most qualified people I think President Trump could have chosen from the conservative world.” https://youtu.be/G2tRdXZLjbY?t=9m20s GRAHAM: “The ABA gave you the most highly qualified rating they could give anybody. I just want you to know that I believe you have led a life you should be proud of, that you’ve tried your best to be a good father, a good husband, a good lawyer, and a good judge.” https://youtu.be/G2tRdXZLjbY?t=12m16s GRAHAM: “President Trump could not have done better in choosing you, and I hope [Democrats] will understand that you may not like [President Trump] – I certainly didn’t agree with President Obama – but I understood why he picked Sotomayor and Kagan. I hope you could understand why President Trump picked Neil Gorsuch. I hope you’ll be happy with that because I am.” https://youtu.be/G2tRdXZLjbY?t=28m28s GRAHAM: “I think I’m one of two or three [of the original group] left [in the Senate] that believed that it was wrong to filibuster Supreme Court Justices – and judges in general – because you don’t like the outcome of the election. And we came up with a standard that you should only filibuster in extraordinary circumstances, which I think is consistent with what [Alexander] Hamilton had in mind in terms of the role of the Senate.” https://youtu.be/G2tRdXZLjbY?t=4m30s ###
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will hold a Town Hall meeting this Saturday in Columbia. TOWN HALL MEETING Saturday, March 25 12:30 p.m. Columbia Metropolitan Convention Center 1101 Lincoln Street Columbia, South Carolina ##### ADDITIONAL NOTES: • Seating is on a first-come, first-served basis. • Signs will not be allowed in the Town Hall since they can obstruct the view of other audience members. • Doors will open at 12:00 p.m. • There will be a limited number of reserved seats available for credentialed media.
03.20.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) delivered his opening statement during the Senate Committee on the Judiciary’s hearing for the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to be an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States. GRAHAM: “The American people chose Donald Trump and here's what I can say about the man in front of us. No matter who would have won our primary, no one could have chosen better than Neil Gorsuch to represent conservatism on the Supreme Court.” https://youtu.be/vLSw_fiQ2Pc?t=1m13s GRAHAM: “So the issue for me is, I'm waiting to hear [Democrats] tell me why you are not qualified for the job that you are seeking. [Roughly] 2700 decisions and you have been overruled once.” https://youtu.be/vLSw_fiQ2Pc?t=5m17s GRAHAM: “Donald Trump deserves to be congratulated for listening to a lot of people and coming up with, I think, the best choice available to a Republican President in terms of nominating somebody who is going to keep the conservative philosophy alive and well in the Court.” https://youtu.be/vLSw_fiQ2Pc?t=1m30s GRAHAM: “I don't know how we got here as a nation. Scalia had 98 to nothing. Ginsburg, I think, was 96 to 3. What happened between now and then? How did we go from being able to understand that Scalia was well-qualified conservative and Ginsburg was a well-qualified liberal and recognized that elections mattered? I don't know how we got there, but here's what I hope: That we turn around and go back to where we were because what we're doing is going to destroy the Judiciary over time.” https://youtu.be/vLSw_fiQ2Pc?t=9m30s ###
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Secretary of State Tillerson warning North Korea that military force was "on the table" if the country continues to develop its weapons program. “I appreciate Secretary Tillerson letting the world know that the clock has run out when it comes to ineffectively dealing with North Korea’s ballistic missile ambitions. “Unfortunately, it’s just a matter of time before North Korea will develop a nuclear-tipped missile that can strike the American homeland. Previous efforts at diplomacy have failed and the Trump Administration is right to put military action on the table to stop a growing threat to the American homeland from one of the most unstable regimes on the planet. “For those who believe we can contain a North Korea armed with a nuclear-tipped missile that can reach the American homeland -- I respectfully disagree. “It’s past time for China to take this matter more seriously. It’s also long overdue for an American President to let North Korea know they will not be allowed to develop a nuclear-tipped missile that can strike the American homeland.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the House and Senate Intelligence Committees’ statements regarding wiretapping during the 2016 election. “While I appreciate the House and Senate Intelligence Committees’ chairmen and ranking members putting out bipartisan statements indicating they have seen no evidence of surveillance of Trump Tower by the Obama Administration, I strongly believe that these statements by political leaders should not be a substitute for a public response from the Federal Bureau of Investigation and Department of Justice on this matter. “It is entirely acceptable for DOJ and the FBI to make a simple statement that goes to the heart of the matter – without jeopardizing classified information. “I believe such a statement would serve the public well, and I fear that without an official answer this issue will continue to linger.” Background: http://www.cnn.com/2017/03/16/politics/paul-ryan-wiretap-response/index.html ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s budget request. “Historically, presidential budgets do not fare well with Congress. “I appreciate that this budget increases defense spending, yet these increases in defense come at the expense of national security, soft power, and other priorities. “I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress and President Trump to create a budget that is fiscally responsible, makes our country safer, and preserves wise investments in our future.” ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement regarding the revised Executive Order being blocked by a federal judge. “With all due respect to the judges involved, I believe the new Executive Order – requiring more vetting and limiting visas from at-risk nations – will prevail on appeal. It’s not a Muslim ban. “While I had great concerns about the first Executive Order, I believe the new proposal falls within the authority of the President to control lawful entry into our nation. The nations in question have become more unstable over time, not less. “This has now become a referendum on the ability of the Commander in Chief to make national security policy and I support taking this issue all the way the Supreme Court.” ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island), the chair and ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, today sent a letter to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and Acting Deputy Attorney General requesting information on possible wiretapping of President Trump, the Trump campaign, or Trump Tower. “We request that the Department of Justice provide us copies of any warrant applications and court orders—redacted as necessary to protect intelligence sources and methods that may be compromised by disclosure, and to protect any ongoing investigations—related to wiretaps of President Trump, the Trump Campaign, or Trump Tower,” wrote Graham and Whitehouse. “We will be glad to review any such applications and orders once they are disclosed, and proceed as appropriate with the oversight the President has requested.” “As Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, we would take any abuse of wiretapping authorities for political purposes very seriously. We would be equally alarmed to learn that a court found enough evidence of criminal activity or contact with a foreign power to legally authorize a wiretap of President Trump, the Trump Campaign, or Trump Tower.” FULL TEXT OF LETTER BELOW: March 8, 2017 The Honorable Dana J. Boente Acting Deputy Attorney General Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20530 The Honorable James B. Comey, Jr. Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20535 Dear Deputy Attorney General Boente and Director Comey: Congress must get to the bottom of President Trump's recent allegation that President Obama wiretapped President Trump’s phones during the 2016 election. The White House agrees. On Sunday, President Trump requested, through Press Secretary Sean Spicer, that Congressional committees investigate whether executive branch investigative powers were abused during the Obama administration. The President's request was for the intelligence committees to look into this, but it is the Department of Justice’s criminal division that obtains warrants for wiretaps, and oversight of the criminal division lies with the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism. Therefore, we request that the Department of Justice provide us copies of any warrant applications and court orders—redacted as necessary to protect intelligence sources and methods that may be compromised by disclosure, and to protect any ongoing investigations—related to wiretaps of President Trump, the Trump Campaign, or Trump Tower. We will be glad to review any such applications and orders once they are disclosed, and proceed as appropriate with the oversight the President has requested. As Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, we would take any abuse of wiretapping authorities for political purposes very seriously. We would be equally alarmed to learn that a court found enough evidence of criminal activity or contact with a foreign power to legally authorize a wiretap of President Trump, the Trump Campaign, or Trump Tower. We look forward to your response. ###
03.08.2017	WASHINGTON – On Tuesday, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), the Chairman of the Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations and Related Programs of the Senate Appropriations Committee, held a hearing on Russian aggression toward its neighbors. The Foreign Minister of Ukraine, and Ambassadors of the Republic of Poland, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia testified before the subcommittee. GRAHAM: “It is my belief [that] if we forgive and forget regarding our own election, we’ll invite future aggression by other countries and that the Republican Party and Democratic Party should be one when it comes to foreign interference. An attack on one party should be considered an attack on all.” https://youtu.be/06HOgN-gSnU?t=1m54s GRAHAM: “My goal is to inform the American people of the risks that you have living in the backyard of Russia – as a democracy. That they’re coming after us, France and Germany until somebody stops them. And we’re going to try to give you more tools in your toolbox to fight back because the safer you are, the safer we will be.” https://youtu.be/06HOgN-gSnU?t=1h53m9s GRAHAM: “I want this Subcommittee to lead the way in terms of uniting our country. Starting with this Subcommittee, it is now time to push back against Russia’s interference in democracy at home and abroad.” https://youtu.be/06HOgN-gSnU?t=2m11s GRAHAM: “And every effort to stop Russia in the past, whether it be Georgia, Ukraine, you name it, is clearly not working. My goal is to come up with something that will work. I want a better relationship with Russia, but that will never be achieved until Russia changes its practice of trying to grind democracy into the ground. I can understand why Putin is afraid of democracy. I can’t understand why America and others will not defend it.” https://youtu.be/06HOgN-gSnU?t=1h53m42s GRAHAM: “I just met with President Trump. I think you’re going to have a good ally in President Trump, in terms of having a rotational troop presence in a permanent fashion. That Ukraine will be helped more, not less. And that we will push back against all Russian aggression. And I look forward to working with him and my Democratic and Republican colleagues to give you some hope in the region – that America is back.” https://youtu.be/06HOgN-gSnU?t=1h54m7s
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after his lunch meeting with President Trump. “I had a great lunch meeting with President Trump today. He is strongly committed to rebuilding our military which is music to my ears. President Trump is in deal-making mode and I hope Congress is like-minded. “How good was the meeting? I gave him my NEW cell phone number.” ###
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump signing a modified Executive Order to keep America safe. “I have always shared President Trump’s desire to protect our homeland. This Executive Order will achieve the goal of protecting our homeland and will, in my view, pass legal muster. I congratulate the Administration for modifying the original order to ensure that it is prospective in application, protective of those with valid visas and legal status, and exempts Iraqis, as five thousand Americans are currently fighting alongside them against ISIL. I believe the new order will withstand legal challenges as it’s drafted in a fashion as to not be a religious ban, but a ban on individuals coming from compromised governments and failed states. This Executive Order will help achieve President Trump’s goal of making us safer.” ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on Governor Rick Perry being confirmed as Secretary of Energy. “I’m very pleased that my friend Rick Perry has been confirmed as our new Secretary of Energy. He will bring a fresh perspective to the Department. I know one of his top priorities will be working to make our nation energy independent. “I very much look forward to Secretary Perry visiting South Carolina and touring the Savannah River Site, the crown jewel of Department of Energy installations.” ####
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island), the chair and ranking member for the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, released this statement after meeting with FBI Director James Comey. At approximately 1:30 today, Senators Graham and Whitehouse — who are the chair and ranking member of the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism — met with Director Comey to discuss their Subcommittee’s investigation of Russian efforts to influence elections at home and abroad. The purpose of the meeting was to make the Director aware of the Subcommittee’s work and to ensure that the Subcommittee’s efforts do not interfere with the work of the FBI. Senators Graham and Whitehouse look forward to using their Subcommittee to inform the public of the toolbox of tactics used by Russia to undermine democracy, and working with the FBI to ensure that the FBI’s work is free of all political influence. #####
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) and Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas) along with Congressmen Doug Lamborn (R-Colorado) and Lee Zeldin (R-New York) reintroduced The Taylor Force Act, which would cut off funding to the Palestinian Authority if they continue their policy of paying monetary rewards to terrorists and their surviving family members. Taylor Force was a former U.S. Army officer who was part of a Vanderbilt University tour group visiting Israel when he was brutally stabbed and killed by a Palestinian terrorist. Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas' Fatah faction praised the terrorist as a “heroic martyr” and the Palestinian Authority has yet to condemn the terrorist attack. Graham, Blunt, Cotton, Lamborn and Zeldin were joined at a press conference today by Stuart and Robbi Force, Taylor’s parents. They were also joined by members of OneFamily, an organization which brings together survivors who have lost family members to terrorist attacks, and provides support and services for these individuals. The Taylor Force Act was also cosponsored by Senators Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), John Boozman (R-Arkansas), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) and John Thune (R-South Dakota). “This legislation shines a light on a very real problem,” said Senator Graham. “Why is the Palestinian Authority paying young Palestinians to commit acts of terror against innocent Americans like Taylor Force or Israelis? The Palestinians need to decide – do they condemn these horrible acts or do they reward them? You can’t be a partner in peace when you are paying people to commit terrorist acts. The choice the Palestinians make will determine the type of relationship they have with the United States in the years to come.” “We cannot continue allowing U.S. taxpayer dollars to be used by the Palestinian Authority to reward convicted terrorists and their families for acts of violence against Israel or the United States,” said Senator Blunt. “Under current Palestinian Authority law, the more heinous an act of terror an individual commits, the greater the reward. This is an outrageous policy and I urge my Senate colleagues to support this effort to end the Palestinian Authority’s unconscionable law.” "The family of Taylor Force experienced loss no loved one should ever have to endure. These reprehensible and senseless acts of terror have no room in our modern world and we should seek all available resources to stop the evil that has claimed too many innocent lives. I stand by Sen. Graham's efforts, and look forward to continuing to explore all options to stamp out terrorism," said Senator Scott. “Taylor Force was what every parent hopes their son will be. And this legislation will honor his memory by making sure no taxpayer money rewards the kinds of terrorists who took this young man’s life,” said Senator Cotton. “It’s unacceptable that our taxpayer dollars are still being used by the Palestinian Authority to pay terrorists who have Israeli and American blood on their hands, and to brainwash young Palestinians to hate Israel and the Jewish people. The U.S. should condition assistance to the Palestinian Authority on it stopping these despicable practices,” said Senator Rubio. “The Palestinian Authority must be held accountable for rewarding and encouraging terrorism. We must prevent American tax dollars from being used to support government sponsored terror,” Senator Boozman said. “This bill delivers a message that should be heard loud and clear: The United States must not fund a Palestinian leadership that engages in incitement and supports acts of terrorism against both American and Israeli citizens," said Senator Cruz. “I’m proud to work with Sen. Graham and my colleagues on this legislation, named in honor of Taylor Force, a Texas native and Iraq and Afghanistan war veteran who served multiple tours in defense of our country before being murdered by a Palestinian terrorist in Tel Aviv last year. The US must hold the Palestinian leadership accountable for continuing this heinous practice of incentivizing and rewarding terrorism by providing monthly salaries and benefits to terrorists, their families, and the families of those who died committing acts of terrorism. We must ensure US taxpayer dollars are not being used to fund and enable Palestinian terrorism and stand with Israel against radical Islamic terrorism that targets citizens from both of our countries.” “After last year’s brutal murder of Taylor Force, Israelis and Americans mourned the loss of Force, as well as the wounding of 10 others, including a pregnant woman. Meanwhile, the Palestinian Authority praised the murderer. Mahmoud Abbas, president of the Palestinian Authority refused to condemn the attack, and the official Fatah Facebook page posted a statement of praise to the ‘martyrs.’ Attacks like these will continue until we use our power of the purse to actually hold the PA accountable. Our bill, the Taylor Force Act, does just that. Thank you to everyone here today who agrees that the right thing to do is clear: no taxpayer dollars to the Palestinian Authority until it condemns terrorism and stops payments to terrorists,” said Congressman Lamborn. Congressman Zeldin said, “I am honored to be an original cosponsor and strong supporter of the Taylor Force Act. United States taxpayers should not be forced to provide their hard earned money to a Palestinian Authority that is inciting violence and financially rewarding terrorist attacks targeting innocent Americans and Israelis. Taylor Force was a United States veteran and American hero who was murdered by a Palestinian terrorist given full honors by the PA at his funeral and called a 'martyr'. This is so completely wrong and unacceptable. I look forward to working my colleagues in Congress to see this legislation passed into law.” Background: http://www.cnn.com/2016/03/08/middleeast/israel-violence ###
02.28.2017	LINDSEY GRAHAM TOWN HALL MEETING Saturday, March 4 10:30 am Clemson University Brooks Center for the Performing Arts 141 Jersey Lane Clemson, South Carolina UPDATES: Parking is free at the Brooks Center. The primary parking area for the Brooks Center is located adjacent to the building. Seating is on a first-come first-served basis. Doors will open at 9:45 am. There will be a limited number of reserved seats available for credentialed media. Signs will not be allowed in the Brooks Center since they can obstruct the view of other audience members.
02.20.2017	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued the following statement on Lieutenant General H.R. McMaster serving as President Trump’s National Security Adviser. “General McMaster is an outstanding choice to serve as President Trump’s National Security Adviser. For years, he’s been on the front lines fighting the War on Terror. He understands the threats and challenges we face. He’s also one of the most talented military officers I know. General McMaster is a great choice and will serve President Trump and our nation well.”
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump visiting the Boeing North Charleston facility. Graham planned to attend, but the Senate will vote later today on the nomination of Scott Pruitt to serve as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “I’m very disappointed I cannot attend Boeing’s celebration of the 787-10 today with President Trump. I am honored President Trump would travel to South Carolina to hear the Boeing success story. The South Carolinians who work at Boeing – and the Dreamliners they produce – are second to none. “I look forward to working with President Trump to make it easier to create jobs in the United States, grow wages for working men and women, and rebuild our military.” #####
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the Boeing workforce’s vote on unionization. “Boeing’s South Carolina workforce is second to none. As South Carolinians, these employees make us proud each day with every 787 Dreamliner that rolls off the assembly line. They have earned every accolade that comes their way. “I was pleased to hear the results of yesterday’s election. The employees’ decision will keep in place a business model that attracted Boeing to South Carolina in the first place. Their vote is a strong signal to other businesses that South Carolina is a great place to call home. “Boeing is a valued community leader, an admirable employer, and a staple of the South Carolina business community. We are proud they decided to call South Carolina home years ago and I continue to look forward to a beneficial relationship for the employees, community, and company in the years to come.” #####
02.16.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after the Senate confirmed South Carolina Fifth District Congressman Mick Mulvaney to serve as Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). “I’m very pleased the Senate has confirmed Mick Mulvaney as the new Director of OMB. “Mick is a true budget expert who is passionate about government reform and controlling spending. He also understands the top priority of the federal government is to defend our nation. “I’m confident he will provide the Trump Administration with wise advice in all budget-related matters.” #####
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after meeting yesterday with former Congresswoman Heather Wilson, who has been nominated to serve as Secretary of the Air Force. “Congresswoman Wilson is an outstanding choice to serve as the next Secretary of the Air Force. I’ve known Heather for years. She’s an Air Force Academy graduate and was one of the most informed and capable Members of Congress I’ve had the experience of working with. I know she will be a good steward and advocate for the men and women of the United States Air Force. I look forward to her confirmation in this important position.” #####
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) issued the following statement on a report that Trump officials were in contact with Russian intelligence officers during the 2016 presidential campaign. “I do not believe it is appropriate for Congress to act based on a newspaper article. However, it is imperative that Congress perform oversight regarding any potential campaign contacts between Trump officials and Russian intelligence officials. If they do exist, the contacts may have a logical explanation, but we will never know until Congress spends the time to investigate this matter. “If in fact there are campaign contacts between Trump officials and Russian intelligence officers that would be a very serious event and would justify the Senate forming a Select Committee to look at all things related to Russia. The Russians have been trying to break the backbone of democracies all over the world, and clearly in my view, interfered in the 2016 election. “Any investigation should also include leaks coming from the White House and other government agencies. These leaks are damaging to our national security and the individuals involved must be punished. “The accusations regarding the Trump campaign’s ties to Russia are creating a cloud over the White House. They should be fairly investigated by the Congress in a bipartisan manner. It would serve the President’s interests to get to the bottom of this so he can move forward with his agenda.” ###
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the confirmation of Dr. David Shulkin as the next Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). “I was pleased to support the confirmation of Dr. David Shulkin to become the Secretary of Veterans Affairs. “I hope he will begin pushing hard to reform the VA, giving veterans more choices for care, and start firing people who have let our veterans down.” #####
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in support of Mr. Steven Mnuchin as Secretary of the Department of the Treasury. “I believe President Trump has chosen an outstanding Treasury Secretary in Mr. Mnuchin. His real-world experience will serve him well as our Secretary of the Treasury and I believe he is the right man for the job.” #####
02.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) reaffirmed his confidence in Judge Neil Gorsuch’s chances for confirmation to the Supreme Court on Sunday with Fox News host Maria Bartiromo. BARTIROMO: “Now of course, [Democrats] are threatening not to [confirm] Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. They’re refusing to vote for him just to get back at Donald Trump and the Republicans for not taking Merrick Garland seriously.” GRAHAM: “…Gorsuch will get 60 votes. There are enough Democrats on Capitol Hill who have a political need to seem reasonable, whether they want to be or not. Trump won their states. We need 60 votes to move to final confirmation of Judge Gorsuch. I believe we’ll get more than 60 votes in his case because he’s so well-qualified. I’m not worried about his nomination at all.” https://youtu.be/YrU8WA04UJU?t=1m56s BARTIROMO: “How will [Gorsuch’s] presence on the Court change the Supreme Court?” GRAHAM: “I think we’ll have somebody like Scalia. He’s a man of the law. He’s one of the most qualified people to ever be nominated for the Supreme Court. He’s clearly conservative… I think you’ll see a continuation of… what you got with Justice Scalia.” https://youtu.be/YrU8WA04UJU?t=2m36s GRAHAM: “Well, [the Democrats] lost the election – they’re in the process of losing their mind. The bottom line is the left has gone nuts. They can’t understand why they lost. They want to attack Trump at every stage. You see the emergence of a Tea Party-type movement on the left. And I can tell you this, there are some Democratic senators who are in Trump states that if they follow the lead of the radical left they’re going to lose their jobs.” https://youtu.be/YrU8WA04UJU?t=3m14s ###
02.09.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) questioned General John Nicholson on the current situation in Afghanistan today in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. GRAHAM: “You mentioned in your testimony that you see a change in Russian behavior for the worse. Is that correct?” NICHOLSON: “Yes Senator.” GRAHAM: “What do you think their goals are in Afghanistan? Why are they changing?” NICHOLSON: “Senator, I think their goal is to undermine the United States and NATO in Afghanistan.” https://youtu.be/1Lw1eH_9O60?t=11s GRAHAM: “Can we win [in Afghanistan]?” NICHOLSON: “Yes sir.” https://youtu.be/1Lw1eH_9O60?t=1m44s GRAHAM: “Do you think, generally speaking, the Afghans want democracy?” NICHOLSON: “Yes Senator. They want a representative form of government. They have a form of social democracy that’s existed for centuries and centuries.” GRAHAM: “…The democracy that they’re practicing now is relatively new to the country – is that fair to say?” NICHOLSON: “Yes sir.” GRAHAM: “And it’s hard… it’s hard here. We need to be patient with people in Afghanistan because they’re just starting a process that we’ve been doing for 200 years.” https://youtu.be/1Lw1eH_9O60?t=1m12s ###
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the confirmation of U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions as Attorney General of the United States. “I’m very pleased the Senate has confirmed Jeff Sessions as our new Attorney General. However, I’m also very disappointed in the way he was treated by his Democratic colleagues and outside special interest groups. “Jeff Sessions is a decent, honorable and highly qualified man who will serve the President and country well as our Attorney General.” #####
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of Senators today introduced legislation, The Russia Sanctions Review Act of 2017, which provides for congressional oversight of any decision to provide sanctions relief to the Government of the Russian Federation. “Russia has done nothing to be rewarded with sanctions relief,” said Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). “To provide relief at this time would send the wrong signal to Russia and our allies who face Russian oppression. Sanctions relief must be earned, not given.” “If the U.S. were to provide sanctions relief to Russia without verifiable progress on the Minsk Agreements, we would lose all credibility in the eyes of our allies in Europe and around the world,” said Senator Ben Cardin (D-Maryland). “Since the illegal annexation of Crimea and invasion of Ukraine by Russia in 2014, Congress has led efforts to impose sanctions on Russia. We have a responsibility to exercise stringent oversight over any policy move that could ease Russia sanctions.” “The United States should not ease sanctions on Russia until Putin abandons his illegal annexation of Crimea, verifiably and permanently ends Russian aggression in Ukraine, and fully implements the Minsk accords,” said Senator Marco Rubio (R-Florida). “The Ukrainian community in Ohio knows firsthand the dangers of unchecked Russian aggression,” said Senator Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio). “Lifting sanctions now would only reward Russia’s attempts to undermine democracy – from Crimea and Eastern Ukraine to our own U.S. election. This commonsense, bipartisan legislation will give Congress – and more importantly, the constituents we answer to – a say in critical national security debates.” “Easing sanctions on Russia would send the wrong message as Vladimir Putin continues to oppress his citizens, murder his political opponents, invade his neighbors, threaten America’s allies, and attempt to undermine our elections,” said Senator John McCain (R-Arizona). “Congress must have oversight of any decision that would impact our ability to hold Russia accountable for its flagrant violation of international law and attack our institutions.” “Vladimir Putin is a thug bent on tearing down democracy—and Russia’s meddling in U.S. institutions is a threat to our national security,” said Senator Claire McCaskill (D-Missouri). “Any decision to roll over on sanctions needs to meet a high bar in Congress.” Before sanctions relief can be granted, The Russia Sanctions Review Act requires the Administration to submit to Congress: A description of the proposed sanctions relief for individuals engaged in significant malicious cyber-enabled activities, those contributing to the situation in Ukraine, and those engaged in certain transactions with respect to Crimea. Certification that the Government of the Russian Federation has ceased— ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, supporting, or financing, significant acts intended to undermine the peace, security, stability, sovereignty, or territorial integrity of Ukraine, including through an agreement between the appropriate parties; and cyberattacks against the United States Government and United States persons. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives will have 120 days to act -- or decline to take action -- on any proposed sanctions relief. During this period, the President may not waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or otherwise limit the application of sanctions with respect to the Russian Federation. After 120 days, if both the Senate and House have not voted in support of a Joint Resolution of Disapproval, sanctions relief will be granted. #####
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the confirmation of Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education. “I strongly believe a President deserves a Cabinet of their choosing. I also appreciate my good friend and colleague Senator Tim Scott for helping guide this nomination through the Senate. “Mrs. DeVos has been involved in education reform for decades. She will bring a new perspective to ensure every child can attend a school that prepares them for the future. As a graduate of Daniel High School and the University of South Carolina, I’m a product of public education and a strong believer in public schools. However, I also believe that if public education fails a student, the system must be pushed to change. It’s long overdue that we bring this type of outside-the-box thinking to our education system. As Secretary, Mrs. Betsy DeVos will bring new energy to the Department of Education.” #####
02.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, in a recent interview on “The Journal Editorial Report” on Fox News with Paul Gigot praised President Trump’s nominee to be the Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court, Judge Neil Gorsuch. GRAHAM: “[Gorsuch] is going to get approved. I could not think of a better pick if I were president myself… Outstanding choice. Well-qualified. [He] should be confirmed and hopefully without having to change the rules.” https://youtu.be/jnJbKA8pmxs?t=10s GIGOT: “If [the Democrats] do filibuster, would you be prepared to vote to break one?” GRAHAM: “I don’t think I’m going to have to do that, but I will do whatever is necessary to make sure this president is able to choose a qualified nominee, and Neil Gorsuch is beyond qualified.” https://youtu.be/jnJbKA8pmxs?t=37s GRAHAM: “I think [filibustering Gorsuch] would be dumb politically. There are at least 10 Democrats in Trump states that would look like not only did you lose the election, you lost your mind.” https://youtu.be/jnJbKA8pmxs?t=1m7s GRAHAM: “[The Democrats] are acting like the election didn’t happen. They’re driven by their base and I think they’re going to hurt the institution and hurt themselves. And they’re certainly not being fair to President Trump.” https://youtu.be/jnJbKA8pmxs?t=2m12s ###
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today made this statement regarding the recently announced sanctions on Iran. “I appreciate the Trump administration’s announcement of sanctions on Iranian individuals. Executive sanctions are the first step in a long journey to check the Ayatollah and his radical regime. Now, the next step should be enacting congressionally authorized sectoral sanctions to punish Iran for destabilizing the Middle East, being the largest state sponsor of terror, humiliating American sailors, and continuing efforts to advance its ballistic missile programs. Without sectoral sanctions passed by Congress, the likelihood of Iranians changing their behavior is minimal.” ####
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island), the Chairman and Ranking Members of the Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, announced they will investigate Russian efforts to influence democratic elections, both in the United States and abroad. They made the following statement: “We look forward to investigating Russia’s efforts to influence democratic elections, both here at home and abroad. “Our goal is simple – to the fullest extent possible we want to shine a light on Russian activities to undermine democracy. While some of our efforts will have to be held behind closed doors due to security concerns, we also hope to have an open discussion before the American people about Russia’s strategies to undermine democracy. “Our efforts will be guided by the belief that we have an obligation to follow the facts wherever they may lead.” The subcommittee plans to fulfill the following goals: • Gain a full understanding of the American intelligence community’s assessment that Russia did take an active interest and play a role in the recent American elections. • Learn more about the methods Russia has used to target democratic nations and elections. • Explore possible avenues to help prevent and deter future foreign influences from impacting American elections and institutions. • Assure that Congress provides the FBI the tools it needs to keep its investigative work protected from political influence. #####
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today reiterated his strong support for Senator Jeff Sessions during a Senate Judiciary Committee markup to consider his nomination to be the U.S. Attorney General. GRAHAM: “The fact that [Senator Sessions] is close to the president doesn’t disqualify him at all. It makes perfect sense that somebody who’s going to be President of the United States would pick somebody they know, they trust and [somebody who] shares their world view.” https://youtu.be/WEBHaLiI0RQ?t=2m38s GRAHAM: “One of the main reasons I support Jeff is that I am tired of turning the War on Terror into a [simple] crime… The son in law of bin Laden… was put on a Navy ship for a couple of weeks, sent to New York and read his Miranda Rights within two or three weeks of capture, not held as an enemy combatant, and given a life sentence… If we catch enemy combatants in the future – high-level al Qaeda operatives –we’re not going to read them their Miranda Rights, but we’re going to hold them under the law of war, interrogate them consistent with the laws of the land and the Geneva Convention, and try to get intelligence to prevent the next attack. To my friends on the other side, the world is on fire, and somebody needs to come along and change our legal system so we can better defend ourselves. Only God knows how much intelligence we’ve lost in the last four years for an insane policy that treats an al Qaeda terrorist like somebody who stole your car." https://youtu.be/WEBHaLiI0RQ?t=2m54s GRAHAM: “If anybody deserves to be called a modern hero, it is John Lewis. He literally risked his life to stand up against oppression in a time when a lot of people were not. That’s something he should be proud of and we should all revere [him]. But he came before the committee and made a pretty damning indictment of Senator Sessions. So here’s what I would ask my colleagues to do: look underneath some of these criticisms and see what you find.” https://youtu.be/WEBHaLiI0RQ?t=6m14s
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) tonight made this statement on the nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. “This is a home run pick by President Trump. “Judge Gorsuch is a well-qualified jurist with an impeccable resume. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I look forward to hearings on the nominee and expect he will be given an up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. I look forward to his eventual confirmation to the Supreme Court. “Finally, President Obama was elected by the American people and nominated Justices Sotomayor and Kagan to the Supreme Court. I voted for them – not because I agreed with them – but because both were qualified to serve on the Court. I urge my colleagues to extend Judge Gorsuch the same courtesy when considering his nomination. I ask no more of them than I asked of myself.” #####
01.30.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced his support for President Trump’s nominee for Secretary of the Department of Education, Betsy DeVos. “I am proud to be a product of the South Carolina public school system. I recognize that many of our students continue to be disadvantaged. When a public school has failed our children for multiple generations, it’s time to rethink our strategy. It’s time for change and I believe Mrs. DeVos will be an agent of change in our system. “We must return control to our parents, local school districts, and states to make the best decisions for our students. I look forward to supporting Mrs. DeVos’ nomination when the Senate considers it on the floor.” ###
01.29.2017	Washington, D.C. ¬– U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) released the following statement today on the President’s executive order on immigration: “Our government has a responsibility to defend our borders, but we must do so in a way that makes us safer and upholds all that is decent and exceptional about our nation. “It is clear from the confusion at our airports across the nation that President Trump’s executive order was not properly vetted. We are particularly concerned by reports that this order went into effect with little to no consultation with the Departments of State, Defense, Justice, and Homeland Security. “Such a hasty process risks harmful results. We should not stop green-card holders from returning to the country they call home. We should not stop those who have served as interpreters for our military and diplomats from seeking refuge in the country they risked their lives to help. And we should not turn our backs on those refugees who have been shown through extensive vetting to pose no demonstrable threat to our nation, and who have suffered unspeakable horrors, most of them women and children. “Ultimately, we fear this executive order will become a self-inflicted wound in the fight against terrorism. At this very moment, American troops are fighting side-by-side with our Iraqi partners to defeat ISIL. But this executive order bans Iraqi pilots from coming to military bases in Arizona to fight our common enemies. Our most important allies in the fight against ISIL are the vast majority of Muslims who reject its apocalyptic ideology of hatred. This executive order sends a signal, intended or not, that America does not want Muslims coming into our country. That is why we fear this executive order may do more to help terrorist recruitment than improve our security.” ###
01.27.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on the 2017 March For Life. “Many Americans have taken to the street to have their voices heard based on the politics of the moment. Yet for decades, the March for Life in Washington has seen hundreds of thousands of Americans gather together and speak up for the unborn. They view it as their solemn duty to speak for those who have no voice. “Through their years of work they have achieved real victories, including the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban and Unborn Victims of Violence Act. I hope that one day soon we can add another achievement to the list with legislation I coauthored – The Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. “I appreciate those who take the time to participate in the March for Life. Their hard work does not go unnoticed. I have much admiration for them and their commitment to protecting the unborn.” ###
01.27.2017	Washington, D.C. ­– U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) released the following statement on President Trump stating today that he would defer to Secretary James Mattis on torture: “We are pleased by President Trump’s statement today that he will defer to Secretary of Defense James Mattis’ view that torture, including waterboarding, is not an effective tool for obtaining information. In response to written questions from the Senate Armed Services Committee, Secretary Mattis said he ‘support[s] using the Army Field Manual as the single standard for all U.S. military interrogations.’ We believe this is now a settled issue.” ###
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports the federal government may assist Chicago in curbing violence. “If federal officials can assist local Chicago officials in prosecuting gun crimes and other appropriate areas of concern, I would strongly support this collaboration. I’ve long pushed for this approach to fighting crime.” ##### • Eddie Johnson, Chicago’s police superintendent, has said the Chicago Police Department is willing to work with the federal government to build on partnerships with the Department of Justice, FBI, DEA, and ATF to boost federal prosecution rates for gun crimes in Chicago. http://nyti.ms/2jRBAYW • Graham has been a leader in pushing for full enforcement of existing gun laws instead of passing additional gun control measures. • VIDEO: Graham Pushes Prosecutors/Police for Prosecution of Gun Crimes Instead of Additional Gun Control https://youtu.be/zhkAYGJAGOA?t=1m7s
01.25.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a supporter of repealing Obamacare, has signed on as a cosponsor of the Patient Freedom Act of 2017. The legislation is the second half of the Obamacare Repeal and Replace effort Graham has long supported. “This legislation transfers power from Washington back to patients and the states,” said Graham. “It ensures those with preexisting conditions can get coverage. It empowers patients by making enrollment easy, encourages price transparency, and eliminates burdensome mandates.” “Obamacare has been a disaster and Americans deserve better,” said Graham. “I look forward to repealing and replacing Obamacare. The Patient Freedom Act is a great start.” ##### HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PATIENT FREEDOM ACT OF 2017: • Repeals: This proposal repeals five burdensome federal mandates under Obamacare: the individual mandate, the employer mandate, Essential Health Benefits, actuarial value requirements, and age band requirements. • Keeps: This proposal keeps essential consumer protections, including guaranteed issue, guaranteed renewability, no annual or lifetime limits, dependent coverage through age 26, and prohibition of pre-existing condition exclusions, and prohibition of discrimination based on health status. AFTER OBAMACARE REPEAL, STATES WILL HAVE 1 OF 3 OPTIONS: 1. State Alternative – A state determines its own insurance regulations and receives funding equal to 95% of Obamacare tax credits and Obamacare Medicaid expansion funding in the form of either 1) a per capita block grant or 2) advanceable, refundable tax credits. Tax credits will be age-adjusted and means tested. 2. No Federal Assistance – A state does not receive any money for tax credits or Medicaid expansion. 3. Keep Obamacare – A state re-imposes all of Obamacare’s mandates, exchange plans, and federal premium and cost-sharing subsidies. ELIGIBILITY: Eligible Individuals: The proposal provides financial assistance to legal residents of the United States not receiving income tax benefits from having employer sponsored insurance, and who do not have Medicare, Medicaid or other government funded health care. The goal is to provide roughly the same federal benefit that those with employer-sponsored insurance receive to those who do not have employer-sponsored insurance. FUNDING: Each state will receive the funds that it would have received under Obamacare if 95% of everyone eligible for subsidies enrolled. In addition, the state will receive the money that it would have been given for a Medicaid expansion. If states choosing this option have already expanded Medicaid, the state could either keep its Medicaid expansion or convert it to subsidies to help individuals purchase private insurance. DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS: The money will be deposited directly into an individual’s Roth HSA to assist in the purchase of healthcare. States will have the option to either receive the total sum of money for administration by the state, or to have the Federal government directly administer and give a tax credit to qualifying individuals. States will have the option to auto-enroll individuals as well. If auto-enrollment is selected, individuals will be able to opt-out of coverage. The auto-enroll feature eliminates the need for either an individual or employer mandate. HEALTH CARE BENEFIT DESIGN: All individuals receiving the healthcare credit would receive a Roth Health Savings Account (HSA), a high-deductible health plan (HDHP), and a basic pharmacy benefit plan. The only mandated benefits would be those required of ERISA plans. There will be continuous coverage protections, as well as the essential consumer protections listed above. Beyond that, regulation of the insurance market reverts to the state. EXPAND HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNT: On a federal level, HSA laws will change to allow HSAs to pay for health insurance premiums, for family members to pool dollars to pay for increased expenses, and to allow insurance companies to offer HSA/HDHP policies, which cover all inpatient services. PRICE TRANSPARENCY: To make HSAs more useful, providers receiving payment for HSAs will be required to publish “cash prices” for services paid for with an HSA or with cash. In order to protect those who do need emergency services, this bill calls for limited out-of-network surcharges for emergency medical services paid for with an HSA.
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s Executive Order clearing the way for the Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines to move forward. “This was a great decision by President Trump to approve the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipeline projects. “I was one of the first members of the United States Senate to visit the Canadian oil sands to see first-hand how these resources could benefit our country. The choice is simple - build the pipeline, create jobs in the United States, and lessen our dependence on oil from the Middle East. “We need oil and Canada has the means to deliver it to us. There's nothing more common-sense than expanding our long-standing, mutually beneficial relationship with Canada. I applaud this decision.” #####
01.24.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Trump’s Executive Order clearing the way for the Keystone XL and Dakota Access oil pipelines to move forward. “This was a great decision by President Trump to approve the Keystone XL and Dakota Access pipeline projects. “I was one of the first members of the United States Senate to visit the Canadian oil sands to see first-hand how these resources could benefit our country. The choice is simple - build the pipeline, create jobs in the United States, and lessen our dependence on oil from the Middle East. “We need oil and Canada has the means to deliver it to us. There's nothing more common-sense than expanding our long-standing, mutually beneficial relationship with Canada. I applaud this decision.” ###
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement congratulating the 45th President of the United States, Donald J. Trump. “Congratulations to President Trump. It was an amazing rise in American politics and I look forward to working with him. We have a chance to rebuild America’s failing infrastructure, create a tax code that helps job creators, rebuild our military and bring order to chaos when it comes to foreign policy. I look forward to working with President Trump, however I am realistic about our differences. I am committed to focusing on a common agenda and eager to get started.” ###
01.18.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley at her nomination hearing to be the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. GRAHAM: “Bottom line: America’s voice in the United Nations needs to be strong. It needs to be somebody that can bring people together. It needs to be a voice that understands what America is all about. I think Nikki Haley, our Governor in South Carolina, is the right person at the right time. She represents a combination of intellect, determination, grace, and an understanding of America that the world needs to hear.” https://youtu.be/Q4ECjegjBZY?t=3m18s GRAHAM: “[Haley] has been the governor of our state during some of the most difficult times you could imagine: a one thousand-year-old flood, the massacre of nine people in a church in Charleston. She’s handled some of the most difficult experiences in modern South Carolina with grace, poise, determination and dignity. Trust me, it has been a tough year or so for South Carolina, and Governor Haley has brought us together and gotten us to places we should have been a long time ago. I think that skill set is exactly what the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations needs.” https://youtu.be/Q4ECjegjBZY?t=2m8s
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement congratulating Shaw Air Force Base for being selected as the possible preferred home for a new MQ-9 Reaper group. Graham said the MQ-9 group will consist of roughly 430 personnel conducting duties related to the mission command of the Remotely Piloted Aircraft. The first airmen could begin arriving as early as the beginning of fiscal year 2018. The next step in the process is a full environmental analysis followed by the arrival of personnel to conduct missions. Graham said: “This announcement is a positive step in the right direction when it comes to Shaw AFB receiving a new MQ-9 Reaper group. The men and women at Shaw have proven time and time again that they are ready and capable of answering the call to protect our nation. I will continue to work with the Air Force and the members of our congressional delegation as the selection process moves forward.” ### BACKGROUND: https://www.airforcetimes.com/articles/more-bases-named-to-host-f-35-k-46-and-mq-9-operations?utm_content=buffer9ffe9&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter.com&utm_campaign=buffer
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON – The United States Senate has passed a resolution sponsored by South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) commending the Clemson University football team for winning the 2017 College Playoff National Championship. On Wednesday, the Senators congratulated the team on the Senate floor. “If you’re looking for a place to go to school where you will be academically challenged, go to Clemson. If you’re looking for a place to go to school where you’ll be a part of a community, something bigger than yourself, go to Clemson. If you’re looking for a place to watch sports at the highest level possible, go to Clemson,” said Graham. “We are so incredibly proud of what Coach Sweeney and the Clemson team has accomplished,” said Scott. “More importantly, I am amazed at the character that is present in the team and how they have become role models for so many of our young people across the state. A good team can be talented and win games, but a great team can leave behind a legacy that will be remembered for generations. And with that… Go Tigers!” The full text of the Clemson resolution is below. Whereas, on Monday, January 9, 2017, the Clemson University Tigers football team won the 2017 College Football Playoff National Championship (in this preamble referred to as the “championship game”) by defeating the University of Alabama by a score of 35 to 31 at Raymond James Stadium in Tampa, Florida; Whereas the Tigers finished the championship game with 511 yards of total offense; Whereas the victory by the Tigers in the championship game— (1) earned Clemson its first national title since the 1981 season; and (2) marked the first time that Clemson had beaten a top-ranked team; Whereas the head coach of Clemson, Dabo Swinney, has been an outstanding role model to the Clemson players and the Clemson community; Whereas Deshaun Watson gave the best performance by a quarterback in a championship game; Whereas Ben Boulware, from Anderson, South Carolina, was named the defensive Most Valuable Player of the championship game; Whereas Hunter Renfrow, a graduate of Socastee High School, went from being a walk-on player to catching the winning touchdown in the championship game; Whereas the Clemson University football team displayed outstanding dedication, teamwork, and sportsmanship throughout the 2016 collegiate football season in achieving the highest honor in college football; and Whereas the Tigers have brought pride and honor to the State of South Carolina: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate— (1) commends the Clemson University Tigers for winning the 2017 College Football Playoff National Championship; (2) recognizes the on-field and off-field achievements of the players, coaches, and staff of the Clemson football team; and (3) respectfully requests that the Secretary of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution to— (A) the President of Clemson University, James P. Clements; and (B) the head coach of the Clemson University football team, Dabo Swinney. ### Video of Graham Speaking on Senate Floor: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=36NLU06SNEg Video of Scott Speaking on Senate Floor: https://www.facebook.com/SenatorTimScott/videos/1378984555467006/
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Ted Cruz (R-Texas) appeared on Morning Joe and Fox and Friends today to announce they introduced the Safeguard Israel Act, which will cut off funding to the United Nations until the President certifies to Congress that the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) Resolution 2334 has been repealed. The resolution passed last month undermines and delegitimizes our ally, Israel. CLICK TO WATCH MORNING JOE AND FOX AND FRIENDS “Twenty-two percent of the money to fund the UN comes from the American taxpayer,” Graham said. “I don't think it's a good investment for the American taxpayer to give money to an organization that condemns the only democracy in the Mideast, and takes the settlement issue and says that's the most important and only issue in terms of an impediment to peace. I begged the UN months before, don't put me in this box. This was John Kerry and Obama taking a slap at Israel. We're going to push back. I think most Americans believe that the United Nations has become more anti-Semitic, more anti-Israeli. And I’m a big internationalist, but we're going to stop the money until we get this fixed. I appreciate Ted's leadership on this.” “I’m proud to be working with Lindsey on this important legislation,” Sen. Cruz said. “President Obama betrayed decades of robust bipartisan American support for Israel at the United Nations by permitting the passage of a biased resolution that condemns our close friend and ally. The Security Council’s resolution is only the latest example of the UN’s long history of obsessive hostility towards Israel and we must not let this shameful action stand. Congress must hold the UN accountable and use our leverage as its largest contributor to push for the repeal of this resolution, making it clear to the world that Congress stands unequivocally against efforts to undermine Israel.” In their legislation, Senators Graham and Cruz outline numerous reasons why UNSC Resolution 2334 should be repealed, including: • It attempts to pre-judge the basis for negotiations, predetermine the outcome of negotiations, and dictate terms and conditions, which is an abandonment of long-standing policy of the United States and previous commitments made to Israel. • It falsely claims that Israel’s sovereignty over the eastern part of Jerusalem and Jewish communities in the West Bank are illegal under international law, and that the Old City of Jerusalem, along with the Temple Mount, the holiest site for the Jewish people, and the Western Wall are ‘‘occupied Palestinian territory’’. • It encourages the International Criminal Court to open an illegitimate formal investigation against Israel. • It will help to strengthen the Palestinian diplomatic, economic, and legal warfare campaign against Israel and encourages boycotts, divestments, and sanctions against Israel The United States is the largest contributor of funding to the United Nations, providing 22 percent of the U.N. regular budget, the highest of any member state, which gives the U.S. considerable influence over the United Nations. The United States must use this influence to help our allies, in this case Israel, which is crucial to our own national security interests. Full text of the Safeguard Israel Act may be found here. ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Dick Durbin (D-IL) today reintroduced bipartisan legislation to protect undocumented young people brought to the United States as children should the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program be discontinued under the next Administration. The Bar Removal of Individuals who Dream and Grow our Economy (BRIDGE) Act, which was first introduced in the Senate late last year, would provide temporary relief from deportation and work authorization to undocumented youth. U.S. Representatives Mike Coffman (CO-06) and Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04) are introducing companion legislation in the House of Representatives. “It’s my firm belief most Americans want to fix a broken immigration system in a humane manner,” said Graham. “In my view, the DACA Executive Order issued by President Obama was unconstitutional and President-elect Trump would be right to repeal it. However, I do not believe we should pull the rug out and push these young men and women -- who came out of the shadows and registered with the federal government -- back into the darkness. Our legislation continues to provide legal status to them for three years as Congress seeks a permanent solution. These young people have much to offer the country and we stand to benefit from the many contributions they will make to America. I’m confident that if President-elect Trump were to support this measure we can repeal the unconstitutional Executive Order and Congress will provide temporary legal status through the proper constitutional process.” “For over a decade, I’ve come to the Senate floor to share with my colleagues and the American people the stories of talented young undocumented immigrants, who have overcome the odds to give back to the only country they call home. Since the establishment of DACA, we’ve witnessed them realize their full potential - by opening businesses, becoming doctors and teachers, and serving our country in uniform. We cannot squander that talent and dedication and send them back to countries they barely know,” said Durbin. “The BRIDGE Act is an opportunity for supporters and critics of DACA to come together and address a compelling humanitarian issue on a bipartisan basis. I’m honored to work with Senator Graham, Congressmen Coffman and Gutiérrez, and other colleagues to ensure that DREAMers are protected from deportation until Congress is able to pass comprehensive immigration reform.” “Today’s introduction of the Bridge Act is only a first step in the long process of permanently reforming and strengthening our immigration laws,” said Rep. Coffman. “I believe children brought here at no fault of their own merit the opportunity to live, work and study in the United States. For the balance of Immigration reform, I am optimistic that we can fix our broken immigration system by enacting tougher laws, securing our borders, and implementing stricter enforcement, all while still keeping families together”. “We need to do whatever we can to protect DACA recipients who are already working on-the-books and not move backward to strip them of legal status,” Rep. Gutiérrez said. “These young people are a lifeline for their families and leaders in our communities. We are starting with them, but I remain concerned about the millions of other immigrants who have no clear path to legal status and the millions who are locked out of legal immigration because our system is so out-of-date and backlogged. The DREAMers who have DACA are not competing with Americans for a slice of the pie, they are helping to bake a bigger pie for our country and our economy.” U.S. Senators Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Jeff Flake (R-AZ), Chuck Schumer (D-NY), and Kamala Harris (D-CA) are original cosponsors of the Senate version of the BRIDGE Act. U.S. Representatives Jeff Denham (R-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Carlos L. Curbelo (R-FL), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), and Judy Chu (D-CA) are original cosponsors of the House version of the BRIDGE Act. The BRIDGE Act has broad support from the faith, business, higher-education, civil rights, and immigrant communities. This week, 88 business leaders from around the country sent a letter to President-elect Donald Trump and House and Senate leadership asking them to support the BRIDGE Act. Find out more about the BRIDGE Act here.
01.12.2017	
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) today delivered remarks on the Senate floor congratulating the Clemson University football team on their 2017 College Football Playoff National Championship. GRAHAM: “If you’re looking for a place to go to school where you will be academically challenged, go to Clemson. If you’re looking for a place to go to school where you’ll be a part of a community, something bigger than yourself, go to Clemson. If you’re looking for a place to watch sports at the highest level possible, go to Clemson.” https://youtu.be/36NLU06SNEg?t=2m11s GRAHAM: “Dabo Swinney, I think, represents the best in college sports. The Clemson team is truly a family. If I had a son, I would want him to play for Dabo.” https://youtu.be/36NLU06SNEg?t=2m2s GRAHAM: “What Deshaun has done for Clemson is unbelievable. The way he’s done it is even more unbelievable. He graduated in three years. He’s one of the nicest young men I have ever met in my life.” https://youtu.be/36NLU06SNEg?t=1m12s GRAHAM: “I want to congratulate the Tigers. Who you beat was impressive, but more impressive is how you have conducted yourselves over the last couple of years.” https://youtu.be/36NLU06SNEg?t=2m30s ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Attorney General Nominee U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) in a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing. GRAHAM: “I want to let the good people of Alabama know that in terms of their Senator, Jeff Sessions, he is a fine man. An outstanding fellow… who I’ve traveled the world with. I’ve gotten to know him and his family, and I will enthusiastically support [him] for the next Attorney General of the United States.” https://youtu.be/DmuwKhRUvh4?t=1m GRAHAM: “Are you aware of the fact that the FBI has concluded it was the Russian intelligence services who hacked into the DNC and Podesta’s emails?” SESSIONS: “I do understand that. At least that’s what’s been reported and I’ve not been briefed by [the FBI] on the subject.” GRAHAM: “From your point of view, there’s no reason for us to be suspicious of [the FBI]?” SESSIONS: “The decision? I’m sure it was honorably reached.” GRAHAM: “How do you feel about a foreign entity trying to interfere into our election? I’m not saying [the Russians] changed the outcome, but it’s pretty clear to me that they [interfered into our election]. How do you feel about [the interference] and what should we do?” SESSIONS: “Senator Graham, I think it’s a significant event when we have penetration, apparently, throughout our government by foreign entities.” https://youtu.be/DmuwKhRUvh4?t=8m21s GRAHAM: “As you know, me and the President-elect have had our differences about religious tests. Would you support a law that says you can’t come to America because you’re a Muslim?” SESSIONS: “No.” GRAHAM: “Would you support a law that says that if you’re a Muslim, you say you’re a Muslim, and when we ask you what does that mean to you,[ you say,] ‘well that means I’ve got to kill everyone that’s different from me.’ Is it okay to say [these radical individuals] can’t come [into America]?” SESSIONS: “I think that would be a prudent decision.” GRAHAM: “I hope we can keep people out of the country who want to kill everybody because of their religion. I hope we’re smart enough to know that’s not what most people in the Muslim faith believe.” https://youtu.be/DmuwKhRUvh4?t=2m29s ###
01.09.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) on Sunday appeared on NBC’s “Meet the Press” to discuss the Russian cyber-attack. GRAHAM: “I want President-elect Trump to be a good president. I like the fact that he wants to get a better deal with the Iranians. I like the fact that he wants to cut taxes and secure our border. There are a lot of things I agree with Donald Trump on. I want to help him where I can and I feel an obligation to say no where I must. Right now, the biggest problem I have – what I see coming out of the President-elect’s team – is Russia… I hope [President-elect Trump] will embrace the intelligence and that [he] will join Republicans and Democrats to push back against Russia to make sure this stops and doesn’t happen again.” https://youtu.be/GMIWjlOrHfs?t=9m8s GRAHAM: “All I’m asking [President-elect Trump] is to acknowledge that Russia interfered [in our election] and push back. It could be Iran next time, it could be China. It was Democrats today, it could be Republicans in the next election.” https://youtu.be/GMIWjlOrHfs?t=3m8s GRAHAM: “Our lives are built around the idea that we’re free people, that we go to the ballot box, that we have political contests outside of foreign interference. You can’t go on with your life as a democracy when a foreign entity is trying to compromise the election process. So Mr. President-elect, it is very important that you show leadership here.” https://youtu.be/GMIWjlOrHfs?t=2m29s GRAHAM: “We should all – Republicans and Democrats – condemn Russia for what they did. To my Republican friends who are gleeful: you’re making a huge mistake. When WikiLeaks released information during the Bush years about the Iraq War that was embarrassing to the administration, that put our troops at risk, most Democrats condemned it, some celebrated it. Most Republicans are condemning what Russia did, and to those who are gleeful about it, you’re a political hack. You’re not a Republican, you’re not a patriot. If this is not about us, then I’ll never know what will be about us. Because when one party is compromised, all of us are compromised.” https://youtu.be/GMIWjlOrHfs?t=5m30s ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement after meeting with President-Elect Trump’s nominee to be the Secretary of the Army, Vincent Viola. “Mr. Viola is the right man at the right time to lead the Army. I appreciate President-Elect Trump’s commitment to rebuild our military, particularly the Army. Mr. Viola’s real world experience will make him an exceptionally well-qualified Secretary of the Army." ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement congratulating former U.S. Senator Dan Coats on being President-Elect Trump’s nominee for Director of National Intelligence. “Dan Coats will be an outstanding Director of National Intelligence. This was a very good choice by President-Elect Trump. “Dan is a foreign policy expert and a dear friend. He’s one of the most mature, knowledgeable, and respected voices in the country on all things related to national security.” ###
01.06.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement in response to the President-elect Donald Trump’s meeting with Intelligence officials. “I agree with President-elect Trump that Russian cyberattacks did not affect the vote tally and were not responsible for the outcome. “I take his statement as an encouraging sign that he wants to push back against those who engaged in cyberattacks against our country’s national security, economic and political interests. More specifically, when it comes to Russia I look forward to working with President-elect Trump to achieve those goals. Now is the time to throw rocks, not pebbles, and a good place for us to start would be to institute additional punishments on Russia for their cyber interference in the 2016 elections.” ###
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) sponsored a Senate resolution objecting to passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334, which rebuked close American ally Israel and deemed all Israeli settlements as ‘flagrant violations of international law.’ “I will do everything in my power to leave no doubt about where America stands when it comes to the peace process and where we stand with the only true democracy in the Middle East, Israel,” said Graham. “The Middle East is on fire and Israel is surrounded by threats. Regardless of the terrorist attacks they suffer, or the number of rockets fired their way, Israel is always the bad guy in the eyes of the United Nations.” The resolution: Calls for United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 to be repealed or fundamentally altered so that it is no longer one-sided and allows all final status issues toward a two-state solution to be resolved through direct bilateral negotiations between the parties; Rejects efforts by outside bodies, including the United Nations Security Council, to impose solutions from the outside that set back the cause of peace; Demands that the United States ensure that no action is taken at the Paris Conference on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict scheduled for January 15, 2017, that imposes an agreement or parameters on the parties; Notes that granting membership and statehood standing to the Palestinians at the United Nations, its specialized agencies, and other international institutions outside of the context of a bilateral peace agreement with Israel would cause severe harm to the peace process, and would likely trigger the implementation of penalties under sections 7036 and 7041(j) of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114–113); Rejects any efforts by the United Nations, United Nations agencies, United Nations member states, and other international organizations to use United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 to further isolate Israel through economic or other boycotts or any other measures, and urges the United States Government to take action where needed to counter any attempts to use United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 to further isolate Israel; Urges the current presidential administration and all future presidential administrations to uphold the practice of vetoing all United Nations Security Council resolutions that seek to insert the Council into the peace process, recognize unilateral Palestinian actions including declaration of a Palestinian state, or dictate terms and a timeline for a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; Reaffirms that it is the policy of the United States to continue to seek a sustainable, just, and secure two-state solution to resolve the conflict between the Israelis and the Palestinians. “The United Nations will regret their vote and I hope the Obama Administration will realize the massive mistake they made on their way out of the door,” said Graham. “By not standing with our close ally Israel, the Obama Administration has empowered evil and been a very poor friend to democracy.” The bipartisan resolution was introduced by Senators Marco Rubio (R-Florida) and Ben Cardin (D-Maryland). ##
01.05.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today in a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing questioned Director of National Intelligence James Clapper and Director of the National Security Agency Admiral Michael Rogers regarding the United States’ response to the cyber threat posed by Russia. GRAHAM: “Ladies and gentlemen, it is time now not to throw pebbles but to throw rocks. I wish we were not here. If it were up to me, we’d all live in peace. But Putin’s up to no good and he better be stopped. And Mr. President-Elect, when you listen to [the intelligence community], you can be skeptical, but understand they are the best among us and they are trying to protect us.” https://youtu.be/uB0S3OFuplY?t=5m19s GRAHAM: “When it comes to espionage, we better be careful about throwing rocks. When it comes to interfering in our election, we better be ready to throw rocks. Do you agree with that? CLAPPER: “That’s a good metaphor.” GRAHAM: “I think what Obama did was throw a pebble. I’m ready to throw a rock. https://youtu.be/uB0S3OFuplY?t=1m8s GRAHAM: “Here’s what I hope [President-Elect Trump] realizes. That if he has to take action against North Korea – which he may have to do – I intend to support him. But he needs to explain to the American people why. And one of the explanations he’ll give is based on what I was told by the people who are in the fight [against cyber warfare]. And let me tell you this. You don’t wear uniforms, but you’re in the fight. And we’re in the fight for our lives.” https://youtu.be/uB0S3OFuplY?t=4m45s GRAHAM: “As we go forward and try to deter this behavior [from Russia], we’re going to need [the intelligence community’s] support now and in the future. So I want to let the President-Elect know that it’s okay to challenge the intel. You’re absolutely right to want to do so. But what I don’t want you to do is undermine those who are serving our nation in this arena, until you’re absolutely sure they need to be undermined. And I think [the intelligence community needs] to be uplifted, not undermined.” https://youtu.be/uB0S3OFuplY?t=3m33s
01.04.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) went on CNN today to discuss the Russian hack and recent comments made by Julian Assange. “In Julian Assange’s world we are the bad guys – not the Russians, not the Iranians, not the North Koreans.” https://youtu.be/YEr52-dlmTQ?t=27s “I hope the President-Elect will get his information and trust the American patriots who work in the intelligence community – who swear an oath and allegiance to the Constitution – and not some guy hiding from the law who has a record of undercutting and undermining American democracy.” https://youtu.be/YEr52-dlmTQ?t=1m15s “There is no doubt in my mind the Russians hacked into the DNC political organization and John Podesta. It wasn’t a 14-year-old kid, unless he was working for the KGB. It wasn’t a 300-pound guy, unless he was a Russian agent. Every American should worry about this.” https://youtu.be/YEr52-dlmTQ?t=2m29s “It’s the Democrats today, it could be the Republican Party tomorrow. None of us should be gleeful when a foreign entity hacks into our political system to interfere with our elections, and that’s what the Russians did… and I hope on Friday President-Elect Trump comes to that realization. [Trump] should condemn Julian Assange for putting our soldiers and foreign policy at risk. Julian Assange is no friend of America and no friend of democracy.” https://youtu.be/YEr52-dlmTQ?t=2m46s
01.04.2017	
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today, at the start of the 115th Congress, announced he will continue to serve on four key Senate committees -- Armed Services, Appropriations, Judiciary and Budget. “I am pleased to once again be given the opportunity to serve the people of South Carolina and our nation on these important committees,” said Graham. “Whether it’s getting our nation’s fiscal house in order, winning the war against radical Islam, ensuring the funding needs of South Carolina are met, or standing up for our Constitutional rights, I look forward to working with the incoming Trump Administration and new Congress to put our state and nation on more solid footing.” ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement congratulating Paul Ryan on being elected to another term as Speaker of the House. “Congratulations to Paul Ryan for being elected Speaker of the House. Paul will be an outstanding Speaker. He is one of the most knowledgeable and competent people I’ve met in my time in government. I look forward to working with Speaker Ryan and my House colleagues to repeal and replace Obamacare, cut taxes, eliminate regulations which hurt job creation and rebuild our military.” ###
12.29.2016	WASHINGTON ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement today on the Obama Administration’s announcement of new sanctions against Russia for its cyberattacks on the 2016 election: “The retaliatory measures announced by the Obama Administration today are long overdue. But ultimately, they are a small price for Russia to pay for its brazen attack on American democracy. We intend to lead the effort in the new Congress to impose stronger sanctions on Russia.” ###
12.29.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the passing of Chrissy Adams, 10th Judicial Circuit Solicitor. “It was with great sadness that I learned of the passing of Chrissy Adams. She was a great friend, loving wife, and devoted mother. Professionally she did an outstanding job for the people of the 10th Judicial Circuit. She was a tough-minded prosecutor who worked hard for victims and stood by law enforcement. She was a role model for all young women and will be missed by her family and many friends.” ####
12.28.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following remarks given by Secretary John Kerry about the path to Middle East peace. “While I support a two-state solution, an independent Palestinian state coexisting with a secure Israel, the one and only Jewish state, I do not believe under the current construct such an outcome is possible. The biggest impediment to a two-state solution is not boundary lines or the right of return, it is the fact that the Palestinians are hopelessly divided and a large percentage of the Palestinian population is represented by Hamas. Until that changes, the peace process is dead and a chance for a two-state solution is a fantasy rather than reality. “While I appreciate Secretary Kerry’s enthusiasm, I am getting weary of plans and proposals that are at best fanciful and worse delusional. Given the current state of discord and dysfunction among the Palestinians, a two-state solution is impossible until fundamental change occurs in Palestine. “What John Kerry fails to appreciate, is that the Palestinians are in complete disarray when it comes to acting like a state. A two-state solution would require two parties capable of reaching an agreement and executing it. I do not believe that the Palestinians under the current construct could deliver on any agreement reached. Almost forty percent of the Palestinian population lives under the control of Hamas – one of the most vicious terrorist groups on the planet. “I wish Secretary Kerry and President Obama would stop pushing Israel to negotiate against themselves. The only way the peace process can be restarted is for the Palestinians to hold elections and be governed by a single entity that rejects terrorism. That is not the current situation and until that day arrives, pushing Israel to restart the peace process is folly.”
12.23.2016	“This provocative action by the United Nations is an outrage and must be dealt with sternly and forcefully. “As the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Foreign Operations of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I oversee the United States assistance to the United Nations. The United States is currently responsible for approximately 22 percent of the United Nations total budget. “If the United Nations moves forward with the ill-conceived resolution, I will work to form a bipartisan coalition to suspend or significantly reduce United States assistance to the United Nations. “In addition, any nation which backs this resolution and receives assistance from the United States will put that assistance in jeopardy. “There is a reason the United States has long opposed these type efforts directed at Israel -- the only way to achieve a lasting peace by the parties negotiating directly and not using the United Nations as a blunt instrument against Israel. This was President Obama's position in 2011 and it should be his position today.” ####
12.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the United Nations Security Council vote on Israeli settlements. “The Obama-Kerry foreign policy has gone from naïve and foolish to flat-out reckless. With friends like these, Israel doesn’t need any enemies. “I anticipate this vote will create a backlash in Congress against the United Nations. The organization is increasingly viewed as anti-Semitic and seems to have lost all sense of proportionality. I will do everything in my power, working with the new Administration and Congress, to leave no doubt about where America stands when it comes to the peace process and where we stand with the only true democracy in the Middle East, Israel. “The Middle East is on fire and Israel is surrounded by threats. Regardless of the terrorist attacks they suffer, or the number of rockets fired their way, Israel is always the bad guy in the United Nations. “The United Nations will regret this vote and I hope the Obama Administration will realize the massive mistake they made on their way out of the door. With today’s abstention, the Obama Administration has empowered evil and been a very poor friend to democracy.” #####
12.15.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the guilty verdicts delivered in the trial of Dylann Roof. “This is the first and significant step in rendering justice for the nine victims who were murdered as they worshipped at Mother Emanuel AME Church. I know nothing can ever completely take away their pain, but I do hope the verdicts will provide some small measure of comfort to the families of the victims. “If there was ever a justified guilty verdict, this was this case.” #####
12.14.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the intended nomination of Governor Rick Perry to be Secretary of Energy. “Governor Perry brings a lot to the table as a very successful governor of a large, energy rich state. He espouses the goal of energy independence and has constantly talked about the need for an energy revolution in the United States. He is a great choice to lead DOE which has a substantial impact on South Carolina. I look forward to discussing the future of the Savannah River Site (SRS) with Governor Perry and making the case for how important the site and national lab are to the nation.” ###
12.13.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Rex Tillerson, being nominated to serve as Secretary of State. “Mr. Tillerson is a talented businessman with a great deal of international business experience. “I look forward to meeting Mr. Tillerson and discussing his world view – especially his views of the US-Russian relationship. Based upon his extensive business dealings with the Putin government and his previous opposition of efforts to impose sanctions on the Russian government, there are many questions which must be answered. I expect the US-Russian relationship to be front and center in his confirmation process.” ####
12.10.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said the Charleston Harbor Deepening Project has taken a monumental step toward becoming the ‘Premier Port on the East Coast’ with Senate passage of the Water Infrastructure Improvement for the Nation Act (WIIN). “This is a big day for the Port of Charleston,” said Graham. “No longer will we be studying how deep the Port should be. No longer will we be designing what to do. We are going to start constructing the Port of Charleston to get it to fifty-four feet in depth.” Graham said the legislation will save the Harbor Deepening project, “time, money, and allow us to become the premier port on the East Coast. It’s the best news I’ve heard about the Port of Charleston in the last decade.” The WIIN Act, formerly known as the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA), passed the Senate by a vote of 78-21 and the House by a vote of 360-61. It now moves to the President's desk for signature. ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham made this statement today on the intended nomination of Linda McMahon to be Administrator of the Small Business Administration. “I’ve known Linda for years. She’s an incredibly smart, talented businesswoman who will bring a fresh perspective to the SBA. She’s a reformer at heart and understands how to create jobs.” ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on retired Marine General John Kelly to lead the Department of Homeland Security (DHS). “I’ve known General Kelly for well over a decade and find him to be one of the most capable leaders I have ever met. No one understands the threats to our homeland and our border security needs better than General Kelly. “Having served our great nation in uniform for four decades, he understands what it takes to protect our homeland. There is no doubt he will be an outstanding DHS Secretary.” ###
12.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the passage of the conference report to accompany the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). The final vote was 92-7. “I’m very pleased that the Senate overwhelmingly approved the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017. “This legislation makes important reforms to the Military Health System. It streamlines the administration of the Defense Health Agency, expands telehealth capabilities for beneficiaries, reforms TRICARE healthcare plans, and establishes a Joint Trauma System designed to improve battlefield medicine. It also authorizes, contingent on appropriations, a 2.1% pay raise for all service members, and additional troop levels to address the threats that our nation faces. Finally, this important legislation directs the Department of Energy to continue construction of the MOX facility at the Savannah River Site. “This bill has been hailed as the most significant reform measure for the Pentagon since the Goldwater-Nichols Act of 1986. Our Chairman and Ranking Member, Senator McCain and Senator Reed, have yet again delivered a bipartisan product the nation can be proud of and serves those in uniform well.” ####
12.07.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to Iranian President Hassan Rouhani warning the United States not to push for changes in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), the deal between Iran and world powers over the Iranian nuclear program. Graham said: “I would encourage President-elect Trump to follow through on his campaign promise to get a better deal with Iran regarding their nuclear ambitions. Unlike the weak-kneed Obama Administration, I don’t believe President-elect Trump will back away from his promise simply because it is upsetting to the President of Iran.” “When it comes to the Iranians and their nuclear program – they lie and have proven to be untrustworthy. “Iran should be required to completely dismantle their nuclear weapons program and infrastructure, and forbidden them from ever having the pathway to develop a nuclear weapon. Iranian sanctions relief should never have been granted until Iran came clean and fully revealed the past and present military dimensions of its nuclear program. And finally, steps should have been taken to ensure that Iran’s nuclear program is to be used solely for peaceful purposes and never allowed to evolve into a program allowing Iran to develop a nuclear weapons capability. On all these issues the Obama Administration agreement with Iran falls short. “In the next Congress, I intend to introduce legislation that would impose sanctions on the Iranian regime for being the largest state sponsor of terrorism, upending the Middle East, test firing missiles in violation of United Nations resolutions and detaining American sailors. It’s past time the Iranian regime pay a price for their provocative behavior. “Passage of this legislation through Congress will give President-elect Trump additional leverage to get a better deal and once and for all truly change Iranian behavior.”
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Dr. Ben Carson being nominated to serve as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). “Dr. Carson is a very smart and talented individual. He’s guided by strong conservative principles and convictions. I’m sure he will be an agent of change in a department that could stand some change.”
12.02.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on retired General James N. Mattis expected nomination to serve as Secretary of Defense. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “General Mattis will be an outstanding choice to serve as our next Secretary of Defense. “During his decades of service in the Marines, he was widely respected by the troops under his command and his peers in uniform. He has real-world experience combined with a keen intellect. General Mattis will provide great leadership to the Department of Defense and President-elect Trump will find his advice to be invaluable. “Finally, I’m confident the waiver allowing him to serve as Secretary of Defense will be approved by Congress. I look forward to his confirmation.” ######
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Doctor Tom Price’s expected nomination to serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). “Dr. Tom Price is an outstanding choice to serve as Secretary of HHS. “Tom understands healthcare from the perspective of a practicing physician for more than twenty years. He will bring energy and experience to the table in helping to create a new healthcare system that focuses on affordability and sustainability. The American people deserve high-quality results and I look forward to working with Dr. Price to repeal and replace Obamacare.”
11.29.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Elaine Chao’s expected nomination to serve as Secretary of Transportation. “Elaine Chao is a terrific choice. She’s highly respected on both sides of the political aisle and possesses a keen intellect and understanding of the legislative process. I’m sure she will be indispensable to President-elect Trump as he puts together an infrastructure bill which fixes our transportation problems and creates jobs.” #####
11.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley’s nomination to serve as United States Ambassador to the United Nations. “Governor Haley is a strong leader who will be an outstanding Ambassador to the United Nations. “As Governor of South Carolina she has recruited and dealt with some of the largest international business firms in the world. Her husband was a member of the South Carolina National Guard who served a tour of duty in Afghanistan. Governor Haley and her family fully understand what is at stake in the war against radical Islam. I know she will be a valuable ally to President-elect Trump as our nation tries to reengage the world and lead from the front, not behind. “Governor Haley is a strong supporter of the State of Israel. Her presence as Ambassador will be reassuring to all those who are concerned about the increasing hostility of the United Nations toward Israel. “I serve as chairman of the Foreign Operations Subcommittee on Appropriations which is responsible for funding the United Nations and all American foreign assistance. I look forward to working with Governor Haley on overdue reforms of the United Nations. I’m confident she will be a strong voice for reform and stand for American interests throughout the world.” #####
11.22.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements in a Fox News interview on the investigation of the Clinton's and the anticipated nomination of Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) to be Attorney General of the United States. On Reports President-elect Trump Will Not Pursue Clinton Investigation: “Well so much for ‘Locking Her Up’ I guess. The bottom line is that I think the Clinton Foundation, the whole mess, should be looked at with an independent view, not a political agenda. I never believed Obama’s Justice Department would seriously look at what she may have done. I can understand wanting to put the election behind us and heal the nation, but I do hope all the things President-elect Trump said about how crooked she was – well, we just don’t let it go without some serious effort to see if the law was truly violated. I think that would be a mistake.” https://youtu.be/5d9EAkjvg64?t=12s On the Nomination of Jeff Sessions to be Attorney General: “I’ve known Jeff for twenty years. I think he’s a principled conservative. I’ll have some questions for him before the Judiciary Committee. These attacks on his personal character, about him being some kind of closet racist or what he may have said thirty or forty years ago is complete garbage. Jeff Sessions is one of the finest people I have ever known. I don’t think there is a hateful bone in his body. We have some policy differences so I’ll be glad to challenge Jeff where we disagree, but support him in terms of him being a good, decent man. And to my Democratic colleagues, you better watch what you do here.” https://youtu.be/5d9EAkjvg64?t=2m24s
11.18.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on President-Elect Donald Trump’s intent to name retired Lieutenant General Michael Flynn as National Security Advisor. “I am confident Lieutenant General Flynn will serve President-elect Trump well as his National Security Advisor. I’ve known him for many years and served with him in Afghanistan. He has depth of knowledge and tremendous real-world experience when it comes to our national security. “Lieutenant General Flynn understands the important role the United States plays in the world order. I believe he will advocate for a stronger American leadership role as the best way to defend our nation. With this selection, I believe the days of America ‘leading from behind’ will be over.”
11.18.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on President-Elect Donald Trump’s intent to nominate Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) to be Attorney General of the United States. “Senator Sessions is a fine, decent man and principled conservative. I’ve known him for more than twenty years. He has the experience and ability to serve as Attorney General of the United States. He was an early supporter of Donald Trump in the Senate and he has earned the right to serve President-Elect Trump and our nation at the highest level.”
11.17.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made these statements today about former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani, former Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton, South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, Senator Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) and Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas). On Rudy Giuliani or John Bolton as Possible Nominees for Secretary of State: “The overwhelming majority of Republican senators have the utmost respect for Rudy Giuliani. He led the nation and New York through 9/11. He’s a citizen of the world who is eminently qualified to serve as Secretary of State. “As for John Bolton, he was United Nations Ambassador under President Bush. He is a reformer who would turn the State Department upside down and make it work better. He understands who our friends and enemies are. We see the world in very similar ways. “I believe an overwhelming majority of Republican senators would support either candidate and some Democrats would too. You will never convince me that Giuliani and Bolton are not qualified to serve at this level.” On Senator Rand Paul’s Threat to Filibuster Giuliani or Bolton: “You could put the number of Republicans who will follow Rand Paul’s advice on national security in a very small car. Rand is my friend but he’s a libertarian and an outlier in the party on these issues. The fact that Senator Paul opposes Bolton and Giuliani will not keep them from serving.” On South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley as Possible Secretary of State: “She’s done a good job as Governor of South Carolina. She’s talented, capable and would do a good job in any assignment given to her. I think Nikki is a traditional Republican when it comes to foreign policy – more like Ronald Reagan than Rand Paul. I like her a lot. I would certainly support her.” On Ted Cruz for the Supreme Court: “We are replacing Justice Scalia, who was probably the most conservative justice on the Supreme Court. Ted Cruz is a constitutional conservative in the mold of Justice Scalia. If you are looking for a Scalia-type figure, Ted Cruz fits the bill. We have had our differences, but even his worst critics cannot say Ted Cruz is not one of the smartest, most gifted lawyers in the country. If you are looking for someone like Justice Scalia to serve on the Supreme Court, take a look at Ted Cruz.” #####
10.06.2016	South Carolina residents continuing to recover from Hurricane Matthew should call 2-1-1 for any assistance if their needs for food, clothing and shelter are not being met. Callers will be connected to local relief supplies where available. As recovery efforts begin, local governments and state agencies continue assessment of damages caused by Hurricane Matthew.
10.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said Academy Day 2016 is being postponed due to Hurricane Matthew. The event, which attracts more than 400 South Carolina high school students each year, was scheduled to take place this Saturday, October 8, at the National Advocacy Center in Columbia. At the event, students learn about the application process and daily life at a Military Service Academy. Representatives from the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, U.S. Naval Academy, U.S. Coast Guard Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, ROTC, and Department of Defense Medical Examination Review Board of ROTC participate in the event. The make-up date for Academy Day 2016 will be announced at a later time. #####
10.03.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on news the Russian Federation has suspended its participation in the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement. “Today’s news of Russia abandoning one of the most important underpinnings of our non-proliferation regime is just another example of how President Obama will be leaving office with the world a much more dangerous place than it was when he was elected. “Russia leaving the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement means that the gross incompetency of this Administration leaves the fate of 34 metric tons of Russian weapons grade plutonium in doubt. “This adds to a legacy of failure on nuclear issues that includes an ever belligerent North Korea -- continuing to test nuclear weapons and delivery systems without any fear of consequence -- and an Iranian regime that is able to secure assurances that they don’t need to comply with an agreement that under the most optimistic of scenarios would allow them to become a nuclear threshold state. “President Obama and his Department of Energy’s deliberate assault on the MOX program and South Carolina need to stop immediately. As it is, our next president will inherit a mess.” ######
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Dan Coats (R-Indiana) and Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) today introduced The Taylor Force Act which would require the Secretary of State to certify the Palestinian Authority has ended its policy of paying monetary rewards to terrorists and their surviving family members. Graham, Coats, and Blunt were joined today at the legislation’s introduction by Stuart and Robbi Force, parents of Taylor Force. Taylor was a former U.S. Army officer who was part of a Vanderbilt University tour group visiting Israel when he was brutally stabbed and killed by a Palestinian terrorist (http://www.cnn.com/2016/03/08/middleeast/israel-violence). Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas's Fatah faction praised the terrorist as a “heroic martyr” and the Palestinian Authority has yet to condemn the terrorist attack. “This legislation shines a light on a very real problem,” said Senator Graham. “Why is the Palestinian Authority paying young Palestinians to commit acts of terror against innocent Americans like Taylor Force or Israelis? The Palestinians need to decide – do they condemn these horrible acts or do they reward them? You can’t be a partner in peace when you are paying people to commit terrorist acts. The choice the Palestinians make will determine the type of relationship they have with the United States in the years to come.” “To provide American taxpayer dollars to the Palestinian Authority so that it can treat terrorists as heroes or glorious martyrs is morally unacceptable,” said Senator Coats. “Our hope is that applying this budgetary pressure will end this immoral program of rewarding and encouraging terrorists.” “Israel is one of our closest allies and a stalwart of democracy in the Middle East,” said Senator Blunt. “It would be absolutely unconscionable to allow U.S. taxpayer dollars to be used by the Palestinian Authority to reward convicted terrorists for acts of violence against Israel. I urge all of my colleagues to back this effort to hold the Palestinian Authority accountable.” “I’ve repeatedly demanded that President Abbas and the Palestinian Authority work to prevent Palestinian terrorist attacks and end all government-sponsored incitement of violence,” said Senator Marco Rubio (R-Florida). “It’s unacceptable that our taxpayer dollars are still being used by the Palestinian Authority to pay terrorists who have Israeli and American blood on their hands, and to brainwash young Palestinians with hatred for the Jewish people. The U.S. should condition assistance to the Palestinian Authority on it stopping these despicable practices.” “The United States should hold Palestinian leadership fully accountable for continuing to incite violence against Israeli and American citizens and provide financial support to terrorists and their families,” said Senator Mark Kirk (R-Illinois). This is a no-brainer that’s critical to encouraging the emergence of a credible partner for peace with Israel, a fellow democracy and our closest ally in the Middle East, yet this Administration refuses to do it.” “This bill stands for a simple principle: U.S. taxpayer dollars should never be used to fund terror against our own citizens or our ally Israel,” said Senator Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas). “The American people and the Israelis believe in helping the Palestinians build a better and more prosperous society. But that better society will never be possible if Palestinian leaders continue to funnel cash to terrorists and their families. The Obama administration and future administrations should hold Palestinian leadership accountable on this issue and tell them that as long as they continue to fund terror, they should not expect another dollar of U.S. economic assistance.” “Earlier this year, Texas native Taylor Force was stabbed to death by a Palestinian terrorist in Tel Aviv,” said Senator Ted Cruz (R-Texas). “Taylor's murder is a grim reminder that the scourge of radical Islamic terrorism targets Americans and Israelis, Christians and Jews, indiscriminately. Our unshakable alliance with Israel will remain our strength as we face this threat together. The legislation introduced today will put the Palestinian Authority on notice that American taxpayers will not continue to fund them unless they take concrete steps to end the abhorrent practice of rewarding terrorists and their families. I'm proud to stand with Senators Graham and Coats as well as my other colleagues in solidarity against not only the terrorists attacking our citizens, but also all who fund and enable them.” The legislation: • Requires the Secretary of State to certify to Congress the Palestinian Authority is taking credible steps to end acts of violence against United States and Israeli citizens that are perpetrated by individuals under its jurisdictional control, such as the attack on Taylor Force; • Calls on the Palestinian Authority to publicly condemn such acts of violence and is taking steps to investigate and cooperate in investigations bringing perpetrators to justice; and • Terminates payments for acts of terrorism against United States and Israeli citizens to any individual who has been imprisoned after being convicted of terrorist acts, to any individual who died committing a terrorist act, or to family members of such individuals. ######
09.28.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Dan Coats (R-Indiana) and Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) today introduced The Taylor Force Act which would require the Secretary of State to certify the Palestinian Authority has ended its policy of paying monetary rewards to terrorists and their surviving family members. Graham, Coats and Blunt were joined today at the legislation’s introduction by Stuart and Robbi Force, parents of Taylor Force. Taylor was a former U.S. Army officer who was part of a Vanderbilt University tour group visiting Israel when he was brutally stabbed and killed by a Palestinian terrorist (http://www.cnn.com/2016/03/08/middleeast/israel-violence). Palestinian Authority Mahmoud Abbas's Fatah faction praised the terrorist as a “heroic martyr” and the Palestinian Authority has yet to condemn the terrorist attack. “This legislation shines a light on a very real problem,” said Senator Graham. “Why is the Palestinian Authority paying young Palestinians to commit acts of terror against innocent Americans like Taylor Force or Israelis? The Palestinians need to decide – do they condemn these horrible acts or do they reward them? You can’t be a partner in peace when you are paying people to commit terrorist acts. The choice the Palestinians make will determine the type of relationship they have with the United States in the years to come.” “To provide American taxpayer dollars to the Palestinian Authority so that it can treat terrorists as heroes or glorious martyrs is morally unacceptable,” said Senator Coats. “Our hope is that applying this budgetary pressure will end this immoral program of rewarding and encouraging terrorists.” “Israel is one of our closest allies and a stalwart of democracy in the Middle East,” said Senator Blunt. “It would be absolutely unconscionable to allow U.S. taxpayer dollars to be used by the Palestinian Authority to reward convicted terrorists for acts of violence against Israel. I urge all of my colleagues to back this effort to hold the Palestinian Authority accountable.” “I’ve repeatedly demanded that President Abbas and the Palestinian Authority work to prevent Palestinian terrorist attacks and end all government-sponsored incitement of violence,” said Senator Marco Rubio (R-Florida). “It’s unacceptable that our taxpayer dollars are still being used by the Palestinian Authority to pay terrorists who have Israeli and American blood on their hands, and to brainwash young Palestinians with hatred for the Jewish people. The U.S. should condition assistance to the Palestinian Authority on it stopping these despicable practices.” “The United States should hold Palestinian leadership fully accountable for continuing to incite violence against Israeli and American citizens and provide financial support to terrorists and their families,” said Senator Mark Kirk (R-Illinois). This is a no-brainer that’s critical to encouraging the emergence of a credible partner for peace with Israel, a fellow democracy and our closest ally in the Middle East, yet this Administration refuses to do it.” “This bill stands for a simple principle: U.S. taxpayer dollars should never be used to fund terror against our own citizens or our ally Israel,” said Senator Tom Cotton (R-Arkansas). “The American people and the Israelis believe in helping the Palestinians build a better and more prosperous society. But that better society will never be possible if Palestinian leaders continue to funnel cash to terrorists and their families. The Obama administration and future administrations should hold Palestinian leadership accountable on this issue and tell them that as long as they continue to fund terror, they should not expect another dollar of U.S. economic assistance.” “Earlier this year, Texas native Taylor Force was stabbed to death by a Palestinian terrorist in Tel Aviv,” said Senator Ted Cruz. “Taylor's murder is a grim reminder that the scourge of radical Islamic terrorism targets Americans and Israelis, Christians and Jews, indiscriminately. Our unshakable alliance with Israel will remain our strength as we face this threat together. The legislation introduced today will put the Palestinian Authority on notice that American taxpayers will not continue to fund them unless they take concrete steps to end the abhorrent practice of rewarding terrorists and their families. I'm proud to stand with Senators Graham and Coats as well as my other colleagues in solidarity against not only the terrorists attacking our citizens, but also all who fund and enable them.” The legislation: • Requires the Secretary of State to certify to Congress the Palestinian Authority is taking credible steps to end acts of violence against United States and Israeli citizens that are perpetrated by individuals under its jurisdictional control, such as the attack on Taylor Force; • Calls on the Palestinian Authority to publicly condemn such acts of violence and is taking steps to investigate and cooperate in investigations bringing perpetrators to justice; and • Terminates payments for acts of terrorism against United States and Israeli citizens to any individual who has been imprisoned after being convicted of terrorist acts, to any individual who died committing a terrorist act, or to family members of such individuals. ######
09.26.2016	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement today on the Obama Administration’s failed policy in Syria: “President Obama’s Syria policy continues to offer gruesome proof of Einstein’s definition of insanity: doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. The pattern is as simple as it is predictable: a ceasefire is agreed; Russian, Iranian and Syrian regime forces rest, refit, and redeploy their forces; the carnage resumes; and the ceasefire collapses. What the Obama Administration calls a quagmire, the Assad regime calls progress. “After yet another cycle of this diplomatic masquerade, Russian and Syrian regime forces have unleashed new waves of airstrikes in Aleppo that no longer just indiscriminately target civilians, but now deliberately target humanitarian convoys, aid warehouses, and rescue workers responding to the bloodshed. But as Assad and Putin lay the ground work to starve or butcher the 250,000 Syrians in eastern Aleppo, President Obama’s policy remains shockingly unchanged. At the United Nations, he said that because ‘there’s no ultimate military victory to be won, we’re going to have to pursue the hard work of the diplomacy that aims to stop the violence and deliver aid to those in need.’ “How many hospitals, markets, schools, and playgrounds do Russian and Syrian regime aircraft have to bomb before we realize that Putin and Assad are not interested in stopping the violence? How many aid warehouses and UN humanitarian convoys do they have to destroy before we realize Putin and Assad are not interested in delivering aid to those in need? After more than 400,000 Syrian civilians killed, how many more must die before we realize Putin and Assad are not interested in diplomacy? Putin and Assad do not want to broker peace. They want to win a war. And American inaction is helping them to do it. “Diplomacy in the absence of leverage is a recipe for failure. At best, it offers the Obama administration a fig leaf to cover the abject failure of its Syria policy and the fact that there is no Plan B. Putin and Assad will not do what we ask of them out of the goodness of their hearts, or out of concern for our interests, or the suffering of others. They must be compelled, and that requires power. Until the United States is willing to take steps to change the conditions on the ground in Syria, the war, the terror, the refugees, and the instability will all continue.” ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is calling on the Justice Department (DOJ) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to explain what actions are being taken to ensure that the Obama Administration does not continue to grant U.S. citizenship to ineligible immigrants, including criminals and individuals who have previously been ordered deported. Graham’s request follows a Homeland Security Inspector General report that found that at least 858 individuals – many from countries with ties to terrorism – were granted U.S. citizenship despite having final orders of removal under another name because DHS failed to properly update and share digital fingerprint records used in vetting foreign nationals. “According to the report, USCIS granted citizenship despite not having digital fingerprint records to aid with the necessary identity verification,” wrote Graham. “Thus, these applicants, many of whom lied on their applications, may not have been eligible for citizenship. This is particularly troubling given these new citizens’ ability to obtain security clearances, serve in law enforcement, sponsor other aliens’ entry into the United States, and hold positions of public trust. In fact, the report found that one citizen is now a law enforcement official and at least three obtained licenses to conduct security sensitive work.” The report also found that while DHS and DOJ have the authority to revoke the naturalization statuses that may have been made in error and prosecute individuals for immigration fraud, very few of the cases have been investigated. In a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Jeh Johnson and Attorney General Loretta Lynch, several senators are seeking details on the individuals listed in the report as well as whether the departments are using their full authorities to update the fingerprint databases, improve information sharing with FBI databases and correct the statuses of all individuals who were granted citizenship in error. Along with Graham, the letter is cosigned by senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), David Vitter (R-La.), David Perdue (R-Ga.) and Thom Tillis (R-N.C.). Full text of the letter follows. September 20, 2016 VIA ELECTRONIC TRANSMISSION The Honorable Jeh Johnson Secretary U.S. Department of Homeland Security Washington, D.C. 20528 The Honorable Loretta Lynch Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Secretary Johnson and Attorney General Lynch: We write today regarding a disturbing Department of Homeland Security Inspector General (DHS OIG) report that found U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) granted citizenship to at least 858 individuals from special interest countries or countries with high rates of immigration fraud, who had final deportation orders under another identity. According to the report, USCIS granted citizenship despite not having digital fingerprint records to aid with the necessary identity verification. Thus, these applicants, many of whom lied on their applications, may not have been eligible for citizenship. This is particularly troubling given these new citizens’ ability to obtain security clearances, serve in law enforcement, sponsor other aliens’ entry into the United States, and hold positions of public trust. In fact, the report found that one citizen is now a law enforcement official and at least three obtained licenses to conduct security sensitive work. Although USCIS’s procedures require checking applicant’s fingerprints against DHS and Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) digital fingerprint repositories, many older fingerprints taken on paper cards had not yet been digitized and therefore, were not subsequently added to the DHS database (IDENT). When USCIS queried the database for these applicants, fingerprint records for the 858 were unavailable and officials were unable to find all potentially derogatory information, including outstanding removal orders and evidence of fraud. Further, the report found that the FBI fingerprint database (NGI) was also missing records because DHS officials did not always forward fingerprints to the FBI after an immigration encounter. Therefore, these 858 were naturalized without being fully vetted. In fact, DHS has yet to review files for 148,000 aliens with final removal orders who were criminals or fugitives in order to retrieve and digitize old fingerprint cards. Unfortunately, these concerns are not new. The Department has had problems with digitizing its records and effectively communicating and streamlining information sharing since 2008, and we have continually called on the Department to ensure adequate protections and safeguards. The Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) sets forth criteria that individuals must meet in order to be eligible for citizenship.[2] Lying under oath about identity or immigration history as well as having a final deportation order may render an applicant ineligible. Additionally, under the INA, naturalization can be revoked if citizenship was obtained through fraud or misrepresentation. According to the IG report, however, only 122 cases have been investigated, and the US Attorney’s Office (USAO) has accepted only two cases for prosecution. Citizenship is a privilege that cannot be obtained through fraud, accident, or oversight. Yet, according to this IG report, that is precisely what has happened. Accordingly, to better understand the circumstances surrounding this report and what actions are being taken to mitigate the damage, please answer the following questions no later than October 3, 2016. Please also provide knowledgeable staff to brief our staff as soon as possible. 1. Please provide the names, countries of origin, and current immigration status of all 858 individuals included in this report. If an individual comes from a special interest country, please include that designation in the response. 2. Please provide a list of the countries designated as those with high risk of immigration fraud. 3. Under the INA, an individual may be denaturalized administratively, as a result of revocation proceedings brought by a U.S. Attorney, or as a result of a criminal conviction for unlawful procurement of citizenship.[3] According to the IG Report, ICE did not pursue investigation of individuals because the relevant U.S. Attorneys would “not accept immigration benefit fraud cases for criminal prosecution” and ICE needed to “focus their resources on investigating cases the USAO will prosecute.” a. Is it accurate that the Department of Justice will generally not accept revocation cases under INA 340(a) for individuals in this group if brought by Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)? If not, how many of the cases is the Department of Justice (DOJ) considering taking for revocation action under INA 340(a)? b. Is DHS considering administrative revocation under INA 340(h) for any of these cases? Please explain. c. Is DOJ considering criminal prosecution under 18 U.S.C. 1425 for unlawful procurement of citizenship for any of these cases? Please explain. d. Please provide a detailed summary of all 90 investigations closed by ICE in March 2015 and an update on the 32 investigations ICE opened in March 2015. 4. According to the IG report, most, if not all, of the individuals who were granted citizenship, lied or misrepresented their immigration status on their application forms. This means most, if not all, fraudulently obtained citizenship, and should be denaturalized, and potentially also criminally prosecuted under 18 U.S.C. 1425. Why are ICE and DOJ only focusing on persons with Transportation Security Administration credentials, security clearances, positions of public trust, or criminal histories? Once those individuals are investigated, will ICE investigate the remaining individuals who should not have been granted naturalization? a. Please provide information on the number of individuals who erroneously received U.S. citizenship and obtained a security clearances, served in a position of public trust, and/or petitioned for immigration status for a foreign national. 5. ICE intends to grant a contract by the end of FY 2016 for placing the remaining 148,000 fingerprints into IDENT. Please provide a detailed timeline for contract completion. 6. What actions are ICE and USCIS taking now to prevent others who do not qualify for naturalization, but whose fingerprints may not yet be in IDENT or NGI, from mistakenly being granted naturalization? 7. In 2016, DHS eliminated Operation Janus. What, if anything, does DHS plan to deploy to take the place of Operation Janus so that the important work of the Operation may still be conducted? Please explain. 8. What, if anything, has DHS done to increase communication with the FBI after encountering an individual and taking prints? Please explain. We anticipate that your written reply and any responsive documents will be unclassified. Please send all unclassified material directly to the Committee. In keeping with the requirements of Executive Order 13526, if any of the responsive documents do contain classified information, please segregate all unclassified material within the classified documents, provide all unclassified information directly to the Committee, and provide a classified addendum to the Office of Senate Security. Although the Committee complies with all laws and regulations governing the handling of classified information, it is not bound, absent its prior agreement, by any handling restrictions or instructions on unclassified information unilaterally asserted by the Executive Branch. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Should you have any questions, please contact Katherine Nikas of Judiciary Committee staff at (202) 224- 5225.
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government through December 9. “I will not vote for a Continuing Resolution which does not contain a fix for the Export-Import (EX-IM) Bank. We are losing American jobs to foreign competitors for no good reason. “We need a fully functioning EX-IM Bank to help ensure American manufacturers are able to compete in the international marketplace on a level playing field. “EX-IM Bank has received strong bipartisan support in both the House of Representatives and Senate. Its past time we fix this problem and allow the Bank to operate as intended.” #####
09.20.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), John McCain (R-Arizona), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Mark Kirk (R-Illinois), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), and Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) today introduced legislation which will provide Israel $1.5 billion to counter the increasing threats emanating from Iran. The funding -- $750 million for missile defense and $750 million in direct assistance to Israel’s military – will be in addition to funding provided in the recently signed Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). The legislation also extends the Iran Sanctions Act through the end of the Iranian nuclear deal. “Israel faces increasing threats from a provocative Iranian regime who has threatened to wipe Israel off the map,” said Senator Graham. “Israel also faces threats from Iranian-backed terrorist groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah. The recent nuclear deal has left Iran flush with cash. It’s important we make clear to the Iranian regime that we continue to stand with our close ally and are committed to Israel’s defense.” “Iran is using its financial windfall from the ill-advised nuclear deal to increasingly threaten the U.S. and Israel— our closest and most reliable ally in the Middle East,” said Senator Ayotte. “We have to make sure our aid to Israel reflects the growing threat they face. Iran is using the cash it has received from the Obama administration’s ransom payment for its military expansion and terrorist activities to target the United States and Israel—potentially including a larger, more accurate, fleet of ballistic missiles and more weapons for Hezbollah. There must be consequences for Iran’s ballistic missile activities. That’s why I’ll continue to push for my legislation to impose tough new sanctions against Iran so that we can better protect our country and our close ally, Israel.” “Support for Israel is not a burden, it is an investment in our mutual national defense against the common enemy that is radical Islamic terrorism,” Senator Cruz said. “The MOU is an important baseline, but Congress can and must play an ongoing, active role in making sure that the alliance is adequately maintained. Sen. Graham’s legislation has brought together a diverse array of senators committed to strengthening our friendship with Israel and committed to doing whatever it takes to keep this country safe, and also committed to protecting the constitutional authority of Congress over appropriations. I’m proud to stand with Sen. Graham on these vital issues.” “Standing with Israel today is the right thing to do after the Administration airlifted $1.7 billion in cash to Iran, on top of releasing over $100 billion in sanctions relief under the nuclear deal to the world’s biggest state sponsor of terrorism,” said Senator Kirk. "Congress should treat the new U.S.-Israel memorandum of understanding as the floor, not the ceiling, for ensuring the security and survival of the Jewish state of Israel, a fellow democracy and our closest ally in the Middle East.” “Israel faces an increasingly dangerous security environment,” said Senator Rubio. “President Obama’s disastrous nuclear deal with Iran and the billions of dollars the regime has received in sanctions relief and ransom payments have put Israel at greater risk. Increasing America’s security assistance to Israel is the least we can do to help our close friend and ally given the enriched and empowered enemy they now face.” “The Obama administration handed the Iranian regime – the world’s largest state sponsor of terrorism – a $1.7 billion ransom payment on top of the $100 billion in sanctions relief it gained under the president’s nuclear agreement,” Senator Blunt said. “That gives the regime billions in new resources to continue fomenting violence and instability in the Middle East, and increases the threat to Israel’s very existence. It is imperative that we provide Israel, our close friend and democratic ally, the support it needs to strengthen its defense.” The senators noted the amount is a fraction -- 1 percent – of the amount of assistance provided to the Iranian regime since completion of the nuclear accord. Since the agreement was completed, Iran has fired four missiles in defiance of United Nations resolutions. Iran also continues to provide support to terrorists groups such as Hamas and Hezbollah. ####
09.19.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the apprehension of Ahmad Khan Rahami, 28, the suspect in the Manhattan and New Jersey bombings. “First, I want to thank the brave men and women in law enforcement who apprehended the suspect. Job well done. I truly appreciate your service. “Now, I hope the Obama Administration will consider holding Rahami as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes. The suspect, based upon his currently reported actions, clearly is a candidate for enemy combatant status. “Right now, we should be focused on gathering intelligence from this suspect that can help our nation understand how these attacks were planned and carried out. Holding Rahami as an enemy combatant also allows us to question him about what attacks may follow in the future. That should be our focus, not a future domestic criminal trial that may take years to complete. “Holding Rahami as an enemy combatant to determine whether he has ties to terrorist groups, whether he was working for or funded by them, and whether there are co-conspirators, and then trying him in our civilian system for his terrorist acts is the best way to protect our country first, and then achieve justice. “As an American citizen, Rahami cannot be tried by a military commission. Any future trial at which he would be a defendant would take place in federal district court or state court. “I have little confidence the Obama Administration will take the course of action I am proposing. Instead, they will read him Miranda Rights as soon as possible and continue to criminalize the war. Their actions will leave our nation less safe in the years to come.” ##### BACKGROUND ON LAW OF WAR / NATIONAL SECURITY DETAINMENT: • American citizens who take up arms against our nation or collaborate with our enemies may be held as enemy combatants. (“There is no bar to this Nation’s holding one of its own citizens as an enemy combatant.” -- Supreme Court decision Hamdi v Rumsfeld) • Criminal domestic law is focused on solving a crime. The Law of War is focused on protecting our national security. • An enemy combatant held under the Law of War is not entitled to Miranda rights or appointment of counsel. • The questioning of an enemy combatant for national security purposes has far fewer limitations than questioning under criminal domestic law. • An enemy combatant is entitled to a timely habeas hearing before a federal judge with appointment of a counsel. • The focus of the habeas hearing would be whether there is evidence to justify the enemy combatant status determination, which would then allow continued confinement for intelligence gathering. • As to any future trial, this suspect is an American citizen and he is NOT subject to military commission trial. This exclusion was authored by Senator Graham in the Military Commissions Act. • Under the Law of War, the suspect must be humanely treated, consistent with the Detainee Treatment Act, other domestic law, and the Geneva Conventions.
09.15.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was pleased the Senate had passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). The legislation is seen as critical to ensuring the harbor deepening project remains on track and Charleston Harbor is deepened to 52 feet. “At the end of the day harbor deepening is really about jobs – today and in the future,” said Graham. “Goods and services made across South Carolina are sent to the Charleston Port and then make their way to every corner of the world. The Port is South Carolina’s most vital economic engine and why harbor deepening has been a top priority for me.” Over 60 percent of the weekly vessel calls in Charleston are now the larger ‘post-Panamax’ ships. However these ships can only dock when the tides allow. Harbor deepening will provide the Port the ability to handle these ships 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Graham listed several reasons passage of the WRDA bill is important to Charleston Harbor deepening. They include: • Gets Charleston one step closer to moving from the Pre-construction, design and engineering (PED) phase into the Construction phase. • Allows the $300 million that the state of South Carolina has set aside to be spent on the local cost share that will be matched by an approximate $180 million investment by the federal government. • Removes one of the largest legislative barriers to ensuring that Charleston Harbor is deepened. The project is scheduled for completion in 2020. “Jobs, both today and in the future, are at stake with the harbor deepening project,” said Graham. “Our economic future, and the livelihood of thousands of people in the Palmetto State depend on getting this project done. When it comes to harbor deepening, failure is simply not an option.” The vote in the Senate was 95-3. The Senate will now await action from the U.S. House of Representatives. Graham has said he will continue pushing for the legislation to be passed through Congress and signed into law by the end of the year. #####
09.14.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he expects a final Senate vote on the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) bill this week. The legislation is seen as critical to ensuring the harbor deepening project remains on track and Charleston Harbor is deepened to 52 feet. “At the end of the day, harbor deepening is really about jobs – today and in the future,” said Graham. “Goods and services made across South Carolina are sent to the Charleston Port and then make their way to every corner of the world. The Port is South Carolina’s most vital economic engine and why harbor deepening has been a top priority for me.” Over 60 percent of the weekly vessel calls in Charleston are now the larger ‘post-Panamax’ ships. However these ships can only dock when the tides allow. Harbor deepening will provide the Port the ability to handle these ships 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Graham listed several reasons passage of the WRDA bill is important to Charleston Harbor deepening. They include: • Gets Charleston one step closer to moving from the Pre-construction, design and engineering (PED) phase into the Construction phase. • Allows the $300 million that the state of South Carolina has set aside to be spent on the local cost share that will be matched by an approximate $180 million investment by the federal government. • Removes one of the largest legislative barriers to ensuring that Charleston Harbor is deepened. The project is scheduled for completion in 2020. “Jobs, both today and in the future, are at stake with the harbor deepening project,” said Graham. “Our economic future, and the livelihood of thousands of people in the Palmetto State depend on getting this project done. When it comes to harbor deepening, failure is simply not an option.” #####
09.13.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the news the United States will sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with Israel tomorrow on defense assistance over the next decade. “While I think the agreement is important and deserving of respect, I have also made it very clear that Congress is not a party to this agreement nor is this agreement binding on future Congresses. Congress has an independent duty to make a decision about the proper level of support for Israel or our other allies. To suggest this MOU will bind future Presidents and Congresses for the next decade is constitutionally flawed and impractical. “As Chairman of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee, I proposed an increase of $300 million for Foreign Military Financing Program funding for Israel above the MOU due to threats from Iran, Hezbollah, Hamas, and radical Islamists in the Sinai Desert. This was unanimously supported by both sides of the aisle during Committee markup. “Additionally, I find it odd the MOU only allocates $500 million for missile defense starting in 2018 while Congress has recommended $600 million for missile defense this year. Who really expects that in 2018 – given provocative Iranian behavior, improved Iranian missile technology, and the chaotic situation in the Middle East -- Israel’s defense needs will require less investment? “We also have a MOU with our ally Jordan. In two of the last three fiscal years, Congress increased funding above the MoU levels by $340 million in fiscal year 2014 and $275 million in fiscal year 2016 – with no objection from President Obama. When the MOU agreement with Jordan was signed, no one anticipated the Syrian civil war, rise of ISIL, or the massive refugee crisis. One can easily see the same funding situation playing out with Israel in the years to come. “Finally, I’m not pleased with a provision in the MOU which prohibits Israel from using American defense assistance on Israeli defense suppliers. Israel’s homegrown defense technology is some of the best in the world. “Under our old agreement Israel was allowed to develop cutting-edge military technology and was required to share this technology with the United States. I’m proud to say that many of these advancements helped protect the lives of American service members in uniform. “I do not believe this new provision will serve the interests of the United States or Israel. I do fear it will be Americans wearing the uniform of our nation who will pay the price for this short-sighted change in policy.” ####
09.11.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the fifteenth year anniversary of September 11th. “No one who was alive that day will ever forget September 11, 2001. The horrible scenes in New York, the Pentagon, and Pennsylvania are seared in our collective conscience. I will never forget how united our country was in the wake of 9/11. Americans from all walks of life embraced one another as we tried to bind up our nations’ wounds and overcome our shared national grief. “We continue to pray for the families of those who lost loved ones that fateful September day. And we remain thankful for the men and women who wear the uniform of our nation and risk their lives to prevent another 9/11.”
08.25.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has voiced his support for the appointment of a special prosecutor to look into Secretary Clinton’s emails during her time as Secretary of State. “We need a special prosecutor, someone outside the Justice Department, to look into this matter,” said Graham. “If you're waiting on this Justice Department to hold anybody in the Obama-Clinton world accountable, you'll die of old age. It’s sad but it's true. “The public statements Secretary Clinton has made about the e-mail systems have all fallen,” continued Graham. “She said she turned over everything that was work-related but there's thousands of work-related e-mails that have not been turned over. It's time for a special prosecutor to investigate this matter.” Graham first made these comments on Fox News Channel. The interview is available https://youtu.be/nSqdnCNrRa4
08.17.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following the news that Russian bomber aircraft launched from an airbase in Iran. “So much for the new relationship with Russia. Russia’s use of Iranian airbases to strike U.S backed Syrian opposition forces may be a new low in the Syrian conflict. “Russia and Iran clearly have no respect for the Obama Administration nor Secretary Kerry. This is yet another bad day for the people of Syria and the region as a whole.”
07.27.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following the ISIL terror attack in Normandy, France that saw the murder of an eighty-four year old priest. “The savage attack against a Catholic priest during Mass not only is heartbreaking, but should serve as the last straw. “The time has long passed for the United States -- along with our allies in France, Europe, and the Middle East -- to form a regional army to destroy the Caliphate. “Unfortunately, President Obama’s plan is to pass the problem on to the next president. “I continue to be bewildered by the leaders of the western world who refuse to commit troops to deal with the problem. This is why we have armies -- to protect our people. We must use them in conjunction with regional forces to destroy the Caliphate once and for all.”
07.26.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news Israel and the Obama Administration will begin negotiating a new Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on military assistance next week. Graham has strongly pushed for additional defense funding for Israel. “Recent press reports about the MOU negotiations between the Obama Administration and Israel are creating great concern on my part. “I wish President Obama would be as hard on Iran as he has been on Israel. Now is not the time to be nickel and diming Israel. It’s time we show mutual enemies like Iran that the relationship between the United States and Israel has never been stronger. “I just returned from a visit to Israel where Prime Minister Netanyahu and his team indicated there were growing threats from Iran, Hezbollah, and others. Iran has already provided hundreds of precision-guided missiles to Hezbollah which are game-changers when it comes to Israel’s security. I continue to believe the need for additional assistance to protect Israel from these threats is clear. “I sincerely hope Israel will not capitulate to the demands of the Obama Administration and Susan Rice who, in my view, does not understand and appreciate the threats Israel faces from Iran and other bad actors in the region. “I fear the Obama Administration will also pursue changes which hurt Israel’s long term security and in turn, American national security. “The Obama Administration is seemingly insistent that we phase out terms and conditions beneficial to Israeli home-grown defense industries. A significant number of these cutting-edge technologies find their way back into American defense weapons and save the lives of American troops. “The Obama Administration’s approach to the negotiations creates an odd situation – America will be phasing out support to Israeli defense industries and disallowing the IDF to use American support to purchase fuel, while at the same time enriching the Ayatollah’s military capability by phasing in sanctions relief. That’s not a good combination for Israel or the United States. “I will monitor these negotiations very closely. I believe there remains strong bipartisan support in support of additional assistance to Israel. I fear these decisions may end up being penny-wise, pound foolish.” ##### BACKGROUND: Sen. Lindsey Graham: ‘No time to nickel and dime Israel’ https://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2016/07/26/sen-lindsey-graham-no-time-to-nickel-and-dime-israel/?postshare=6641469541018583&tid=ss_tw Israel sending official to US to seal defense aid deal http://www.timesofisrael.com/israel-sending-official-to-us-to-seal-defense-aid-deal/ Netanyahu: Israel Hopes to Sign New Aid Agreement With U.S. as Soon as Possible http://www.haaretz.com/israel-news/1.733183
07.21.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to Republican nominee for President Donald Trump suggesting the United States would not defend NATO allies. “Statements like these make the world more dangerous and the United States less safe. “I can only imagine how our allies in NATO, particularly the Baltic states must feel after reading these comments from Mr. Trump. I’m 100 percent certain how Russian President Putin feels – he’s a very happy man. “The Republican nominee for President is essentially telling the Russians and other bad actors that the United States is not fully committed to supporting the NATO alliance. NATO has been the most successful organization in modern history to provide collective defense for democracies. If Mr. Trump is serious about wanting to be Commander in Chief he needs to better understand the job which is to provide leadership for the United States and the free world. “Mr. Trump has shown the ability to correct statements such as this. I hope he will do so tonight when the world is watching.” ##### BACKGROUND: http://www.cnn.com/2016/07/21/politics/trump-foreign-policy-interview/index.html http://www.politico.com/story/2016/07/trump-nato-new-york-times-225942
07.11.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on David Cameron resigning as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom on Wednesday. “I respect his decision as I know he’s doing what is best for his country and party. I have always found him to be a smart and reliable partner to the United States. He brought new life to the Conservative Party in the United Kingdom and has had substantial accomplishments while serving as Prime Minister. I wish him well on all future endeavors.”
07.08.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following the attack on Dallas police officers last night. “Like all Americans, I am horrified by the attack on law enforcement officers in Dallas, Texas. We grieve with the families who lost loved ones in the attack and continue to pray for a quick recovery for the law enforcement officers who were injured. “I have great respect for those who wear the uniform and protect our communities. As we saw last night, when trouble arises police officers run into harm’s way and risk their own lives to protect the lives of others. They truly are some of the heroes in our midst.” ###
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after meeting with British Defence Secretary Michael Fallon, National Security Adviser Sir Mark Lyall Grant, and Chief of the Defence Staff General Sir Nick Houghton. “I had a great visit where we discussed the current UK national security posture and our continued close working relationship in the fight against radical Islam. As Americans, we have had no better partner in the fight against radical Islam than the United Kingdom. “They understand the need to accelerate the demise of ISIL in Iraq and Syria as well as the need to provide stability to the Iraqi security forces. They will continue their role in Afghanistan and understand the growing threats in Libya. While there has been some progress against ISIL’s growing influence in Libya, it remains a problem which must be dealt with and NATO could play an important role. The longer we wait to stabilize Libya, the more danger it will pose to Europe as well as the American homeland. “While there remains a great deal of uncertainty about future economic relationships in light of the Brexit vote, I fully expect we will continue to have a strong national security working relationship with the UK. “I appreciate these leader’s time and look forward to a continued close working relationship between our two nations and our shared national security interests. Like all Americans, I am truly grateful for the UK’s continued cooperation and friendship.” #####
07.06.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Afghanistan troop levels. “This is more a political decision by President Obama than a military one. I’ve never heard anyone suggest that our current level of 9,800 troops in Afghanistan is too high or that President Obama’s new 8,400 troop level will be just right. “But let’s be clear -- this troop reduction, while it will seem small to many, will have a negative impact on the security situation in Afghanistan. It also pushes American service members to absorb more risk as the threats in Afghanistan from ISIL and other terrorist groups continue to grow. “I just returned from Afghanistan and did not sense that conditions on the ground warranted a further reduction of American troops at this time. A wise course would have been for President Obama to leave our forces intact at the 9,800 level to protect our many hard fought gains. “Unfortunately, all President Obama did today was make the job of our remaining troops serving in Afghanistan, and the next President, much harder and riskier.” ####
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following FBI Director James Comey’s recommendation not to bring charges against Secretary Hillary Clinton. “Secretary Clinton has shown a serious lack of judgement in this entire episode. She made sensitive, classified information vulnerable to America’s enemies. While the FBI has made their decision, it won’t change the fact that Secretary Clinton flouted oversight and transparency norms by using a private email server. The FBI was rightfully harsh in their assessment of her actions. Now the American people will have the final say in this matter.” ####
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the release of the Benghazi report by the House Select Committee on Benghazi. “I commend the hard work and dedication of Chairman Trey Gowdy, his staff, and the Republican members of the House Select Committee on Benghazi. Trey did an excellent job of establishing a narrative of what truly happened in Benghazi before, during, and after the attack. “I’m deeply disappointed in his Democratic colleagues for standing up road blocks at every turn and the White House for its continued efforts to impede this investigation. “For anyone familiar with the attacks that killed four Americans in Benghazi, we learned so much from Trey’s investigation. We learned that Secretary of State Clinton told her own daughter the same day of the attack that it was caused by a terrorist group. We learned that Ben Rhodes, one of President Obama’s chief political operatives, shaped the narrative that the attack was a result of a protest inspired by a video. “This investigation made clear the Benghazi Special Mission Compound, which was to be part of a victory lap for Secretary Clinton, was instead allowed to become a death trap. As the report revealed, despite former Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta’s clear orders to deploy military assets, not one military asset was moving toward Benghazi to help our brave Americans under fire. It is also clear in the days and weeks following the attack that the Obama Administration desperately attempted to spin the story for political purposes. “This report, in excruciating detail, paints a picture of disconnect between what happened on the ground and the Obama Administration’s response. It details incompetency by the State Department and the Administration before and during the attack. The report also reveals many new specifics about the level of deceit the Administration engaged in following the attack in an effort to structure the narrative as a protest caused by a video instead of a preplanned terror attack. “I commend Trey Gowdy for his work to uncover all of what happened on that fateful night and early next morning to ensure our country learns everything possible so that a tragedy like Benghazi never happens again.”
06.30.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), and Roy Blunt (R-Missouri) made these statements after reintroducing legislation that gives parents clear constitutional authority to direct the upbringing of their children. The legislation makes the liberty of parents to direct the upbringing of their children a fundamental right by amending the Constitution. Importantly, the legislation clearly empowers parents to make decisions over the type of education their child receives. It also ensures that disabled parents’ rights are not infringed on account of their disability. “The rights of parents are under assault from bureaucrats that think they know what’s best for someone else’s child,” said Senator Graham. “Parental rights do not and should not end at the schoolhouse door.” “Eliminating parental input regarding public school decisions is a disaster for public schools”, said Graham. “The last thing we need to do is to alienate or destroy parental involvement in public education.” “Contrary to the views of many federal bureaucrats in Washington, parents in Arizona and across this country know what’s best for their children” said Senator McCain. “This legislation is critical to ensuring the United States respects and upholds parents’ fundamental rights to make decisions regarding their families’ education and upbringing.” “This amendment will give parents the certainty that their role in making some of the most important decisions in their child’s life such as their education will never be threatened or taken away by Washington bureaucrats,” said Senator Isakson, a member of the Senate education committee. “Every parent should be able to make the best choices for their children, including their care and education,” said Senator Blunt. “I’m proud to once again support this amendment to protect that right.”
06.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after voting in support of the Collins amendment to prevent terrorists from buying guns. The amendment survived a procedural vote, 52-46, and remains eligible for a final vote. Graham said: “At the end of the day this really is about counter-terrorism, not gun control. We are a nation at war against radical Islam and under increasing threats both here at home and abroad. “President Obama’s foreign policy has been a failure and helped give rise to the very threats we face. I have long argued we must do more to counter the threat abroad. However, it is also important we take steps here at home to protect ourselves as well. It’s why I supported the Collins Amendment. “Simply put -- I don’t want anyone who is too dangerous to fly on a plane to buy a gun. “To be on these lists today means there is reasonable suspicion and credible evidence that the individual in question is involved with or in support of terrorist activities. There are about 109,000 people on these lists and 99% of them are foreign nationals, not U.S. citizens. There are only about 2,700 Americans who could be impacted by this measure. “I believe in due process and I was insistent the amendment contain provisions to ensure those who should not be on these lists can clear their name. We put the burden of proof on the government to show the individual is a danger and should not be allowed to purchase a gun. If the government fails, the individual’s rights are upheld and the government will pay their legal tab. “This debate will continue and I will continue to work to find common ground that both protects the rights of law-abiding citizens and prevents terror suspects from purchasing guns. The differences between the competing approaches are narrowing. “I will continue to strive to be a senator that can bring us together and find common ground in times of great threat. ####
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has proposed an amendment to the CJS Appropriations bill currently before the Senate which would dramatically boost funding for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Under Graham’s amendment: • An additional $2.8 billion in funding would be made available to the FBI; • The funds could be spent over the next five years allowing the FBI to tap the funds on a ‘as-need’ basis; and • The funding is deemed ‘emergency’ and not subject to the Budget Control Act (BCA). “My goal is to prevent future terrorist attacks, not respond to them,” said Graham. “We are fighting a war against radical Islam which knows no bounds. Ensuring the FBI has all the tools they need should be a top priority for the nation. “This funding will allow the FBI to begin hiring, training, and putting the additional agents in the field to protect our nation,” said Graham. “It also ensures they have the analysts and other associated positions to track terror suspects and dangers to our nation. We have never seen more threats to the homeland and we are currently providing the FBI diminishing ability to respond to them. It’s time we reverse that trend. ” Graham noted that in the next fiscal year (2017) the FBI is expected to have fewer special agents than it did five years ago (2012). “Homegrown and foreign terror threats against our nation are growing exponentially and we must take the necessary steps to protect our nation,” said Graham. “Increasing the FBI budget is one step in the right direction. It’s one piece of the puzzle that will help us begin waging a real war on radical Islam both here at home and abroad.”
06.16.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke on the floor of the United States Senate in advance of the one year anniversary of the shooting at Emanuel AME Church in Charleston.
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) by a vote of 85-13. This legislation will soon go to conference with the House of Representatives to iron out differences between the two chambers. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Ensuring our men and women in uniform have the necessary tools, training, and equipment to carry out their critical mission of protecting our nation is the first responsibility of a Member of Congress. “In this year’s bill, we put in place major reforms of systems within the Pentagon. We showed strong support for keeping Guantanamo Bay open and ensuring the detainees currently housed there remain there. We authorized additional funds in the Defense Health Program budget for military health system reforms. Finally, we took steps to ensure the Obama Administration cannot cancel the MOX program. “I truly appreciate the leadership shown by our Chairman and Ranking Member, Senators McCain and Reed, in pushing this legislation forward. “In a time of bitter divisions, their leadership in bringing the Senate together gives me hope. They deserve much credit for a job well-done and our men and women in uniform will benefit from their good work.” #####
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on how to prevent future attacks and rejected calls for additional gun control measures. “President Obama and Hillary Clinton are both wrong. This is not a gun control issue, it’s a terrorism issue. “If gun control were the answer there would be no Paris and Brussels attacks. “Instead of calling for more gun control we need a more robust intelligence gathering system and a rejection of the ‘leading from behind’ model of President Obama which allowed ISIL to come into being and continue to exist. “There is no doubt we need more resources for our intelligence and law enforcement communities. “My goal is to prevent future attacks, not simply respond to them.” #####
06.13.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the Obama Administration’s decision to charge an American citizen, Mohamad Jamal Khweis, who fought for ISIL, in federal court instead of holding him as an enemy combatant. “Mohamad Khweis is an American citizen who voluntarily joined ISIL. He traveled to Syria and Iraq and was captured on the battlefield. The Obama Administration should have held him as an enemy combatant for intelligence gathering purposes. This is legal and allowed under the Law of War. "Instead, President Obama and his team have decided to read this terrorist his Miranda rights and put him directly into the federal court system. Our ability to gather timely and valuable intelligence about ISIL from this individual is now no greater than the permission given by this terrorist’s criminal lawyer. “This practice is dangerous, turns the Law of War upside down, and makes us as a nation less safe. We are delaying the opportunity to gain timely, valuable intelligence which could be of use to our war fighters. "The Obama Administration continues to take terrorists off the battlefield and put them in federal court rather than holding them for intelligence gathering purposes. Obama’s ill-considered decision makes our nation less safe.”
06.12.2016	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the attack on a nightclub in Orlando, Florida. "This is a horrific day for America. Our thoughts and prayers remain with the victims, survivors, and those touched by this terrible tragedy. I fear this will prove to be system failure. Congress should immediately restore the budgets for our intelligence and law enforcement communities which have been suffering. My goal is to prevent future terrorist attacks, not simply respond to them. We are fighting a war against radical Islam and a hateful ideology, not a crime."
06.09.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) spoke on the Senate floor today in support of increased funding for the United States military. Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, criticized both Republicans and Democrats who oppose an increase in defense spending at a time when military leaders are warning of equipment shortages and lack of readiness preparations. “Everybody loves the military. Well, your love doesn't help them. Your love doesn't buy a damn thing. If you love these men and women, you will adequately fund their needs. If you care about them and their families, you will adjust the budget so they can fight a war on our behalf.” - http://bit.ly/1VOP3PP “Here’s what the Commandant of the Marine Corps said about the current state of readiness. Our aviation units are currently unable to meet our training and mission requirements primarily due to ready basic aircraft shortfalls. I can tell you in the Marine Corps today, 70 percent of the F-18's have a problem meeting combat status. I can tell you today that the Army is stretched unlike any time I've ever seen. I can tell you today that the Navy is robbing Peter to pay Paul to keep the ships on the ocean and with the numbers we have in terms of defense spending, they're having to forego modernization to deal with the readiness, to deal with the ability to fight the war.” - http://bit.ly/1ZBBkLy “If you vote no, then as far as I'm concerned, you better never say I love the military anymore. Because if you really love them, you’d do something about it.” - http://bit.ly/24DbPul “Over the last seven or eight years, we've cut $1 trillion out of the United States military. We're on track to have the smallest Army since 1940, the smallest Navy since 1915, the smallest Air Force in modern times. We're on track to spend half of what we normally spend in time of war. Normally we spend about 4.5 percent G.D.P. to defend this nation. We're on track by 2021 to spend 2.3 percent of G.D.P. This in my view is an emergency.” - http://bit.ly/22W7pj7 “Discretionary spending is not the reason we're in debt. We're spending at a 2008 level. So these blind across-the-board cuts limited to discretionary spending a lot of programs are not even subject to sequestration is not moving the debt needle. It is destroying the ability to defend this country.” - http://bit.ly/24DdpMM Copy of transcript below: Mr. GRAHAM: Here's the issue. To those who are a slave to these sequestration caps, to those who believe that sequestration in this budget practice were involved is going to save the country, boy, I couldn't disagree with you more. We haven't moved the debt needle at all. Discretionary spending is not the reason we're in debt. We're spending at a 2008 level. So these blind across-the-board cuts limited to discretionary spending a lot of programs are not even subject to sequestration is not moving the debt needle. It is destroying the ability to defend this country. So the theory we're advocating here today is that there's an emergency in the United States military that needs to be addressed and we should be able to add money to the united States military, the department of defense based on an emergency that's real and not be limited by caps that are insane. So here's the issue. Is there an emergency in terms of readiness? Is there an emergency in terms of operation and maintenance? Are we putting the ability to modernize our force at risk in an emergency situation because we don't have enough money to fight the wars we're in and modernize the force for the wars to come? If you don't believe us, here's would the Commandant of the Marine Corps said about the current state of readiness. Our aviation units are currently unable to meet our training mission requirements primarily due to ready basic aircraft shortfalls. I can tell you in the Marine Corps today, 70% of the F-18's have a problem meeting combat status. I can tell you today that the Army is stretched unlike any time I've ever seen. I can tell you today that the Navy is robbing Peter to pay Paul to keep the ships on the ocean and with the numbers we have in terms of defense spending, they're having to forego modernization to deal with the readiness, to deal with the ability to fight the war. I can tell you that the commandant of the Marine Corps is going to take six B-22's out of Spain that are used to rescue consulates and embassies that come under attack in Africa because we need those planes to train pilots, and if we don't bring those planes back, we're not going to have an air worthy B-22 force at a time we need it. You're creating a hole in a vacuum in our ability to protect our diplomats and U.S. Citizens in Africa. Could I just add one thing… Mr. MCCAIN: It was at the hearing when general Milley, the chief of staff of the United States Army test identified the Army risks not having ready forces available to provide flexible options to our national leadership and most importantly, risks incurring significantly increased U.S. Casualties. I say to my colleagues that are going to vote against this, you are taking on a heavy burden of responsibility of incurring significantly increased U.S. Casualties in case of an emergency. The military is not ready. We are a hundred billion dollars less than we were 2011 when sequestration began and the world has changed dramatically. I can't tell you my disappointment to hear that the chairman of the appropriations committee, I don't know if my colleague knows, said that he's going to vote against it using some rationale that they're increasing by some $7 billion. That's insane. That is not only insane, it's irresponsible and most importantly, it's out of touch. I say to my colleagues, to the chairman of the subcommittee take you are out of touch with what's going on in the world in the United States military. You better get in touch. Mr. GRAHAM: I would just add that anybody who doesn't believe that there's an emergency in the United States military is not listening to the United States military and you have not been following the consequences of what we've done over the last five, six years in terms of cuts to the military. Over the last seven or eight years, we've cut $1 trillion out of the United States military. We're on track to have the smallest Army since 1940, the smallest Navy since 1915, the smallest Air Force in modern times. We're on track to spend half of what we normally spend in time of war. Normally we spend about 4.5% G.D.P. to defend this nation. We're on track to spend 2.3% of G.D.P. This in my view is an emergency. I want you to go back home and explain to those who are busting their ass to fight this war, who can't fly equipment because it's too dangerous, who are cannibalizing planes to keep some planes in the air, who are stretched so thin that it's creating high risk. Here's what the General of the Army said, the Chief of Staff of the Army, “I characterize us at this current state at high military risk.” So this is the Chief of Staff of the Army telling you, all of us, that the Army is in a high state of risk because of budget cuts. This $18 billion will restore money that has been taken out, that will have a beneficial effect now and is absolutely essential. It will give 15,000 more people in the Army, and if you're in the Army, you would like to have some more colleagues because you've been going back and forth, back and forth. So we need more people in the Army, not less. 3,000 more Marines. If anybody has born the burden of this war, it's the United States Marine Corps. Here's what I say. Let's hire more Marines. Let’s start listening to what is going on in the military. The whole theory of this amendment is that we've let this deteriorate to the point that we have an emergency situation where we're putting our men and women's lives at risk because they don't have the equipment they need, the training opportunities they deserve to fight the war that we can't afford to lose, and you're going to vote no because you're worried about budget caps. Oh, we love the military. Everybody loves the military. Well, your love doesn't help them. Your love doesn't buy a damn thing. If you love these men and women, you will adequately fund their needs. If you care about them and their families, you will adjust the budget so they can fight a war on our behalf. We're up here arguing about everything, the state of politics in America makes me sick. Looks like one thing we could agree on, libertarians, vegetarians, Republicans and Democrats that those who are fighting this war deserve better than we're giving them. So I want to tell you when you come and vote against this amendment because you're worried about the budget caps, well the Budget Committee is not going to fight this war. To my friends at Heritage Action, I agree with you a lot. You say this is a bad vote. Nobody at Heritage Action is going to go over to Afghanistan, Iraq or Syria or Libya to protect this country. You talk about a head in the sand Congress, you talk about people who are not listening, that are so worried about special interest groups and concepts that have absolutely no basis in reality, if you fully implement sequestration, all you've done is gut the military and some non-defense programs that really matter to us. You haven't changed the debt at all. So don't go around telling people you're getting us to a balanced budget. You're not. The money is in entitlements and we're not doing a damn thing about it. Ryan-Murray added some money and I want to thank them but it wasn't enough. I want to thank the appropriators for adding $7 billion but it's not nearly enough. The $18 billion that is in this amendment goes to buy airplanes, 14 F-18's, 5 F-35’s, 2 F-35B's. $200 million to help the Israelis with their missile defense program. What this buys is more people, more equipment, more training opportunities at a time that we need all of the above. It breaks the cap because we're in an emergency situation. These caps are strangling our ability to defend this nation. I hate what we've done to the military. This is a small step forward. This is not nearly what we need but this $18 billion will provide some needed relief to the people who have been fighting this war for 15 years. So I hope and pray that you'll start listening to those that we've put in charge of our military and respond to their needs, and this is a small step in the right direction. And if we say no to this amendment, god help us all. And you own it. You own the state of high risk. If you vote no, then as far as I'm concerned, you better never say I love the military anymore. Because if you really love them, you’d do something about it.
05.26.2016	WASHINGTON ¬ U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has written to President Obama regarding U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan. “A timely decision on U.S. force levels is necessary so that our allies and partners can generate forces and make appropriate pledges for the Resolute Support Mission beginning in January 2017,” wrote Graham, along with a bipartisan group of senators. “We urge you to announce any changes to our current planned force levels ahead of the relevant NATO conferences, giving the strongest consideration to the assessment of your military commanders and to conditions on the ground.” In addition to Graham, the letter was signed by Senator John McCain (R-AZ), Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, Senator Joe Manchin (D-WV), Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Senator Jeanne Shaheen (D-NH), Senator Deb Fischer (R-NE), Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN), Senator Tom Cotton (R-AR), Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA), and Senator Angus King (I-ME). The text of the letter is below and attached. Dear President Obama: We appreciate your continued willingness to consider adjustments based on the security situation in Afghanistan to preserve and build upon the hard fought gains achieved over the past 14 years. In recent months, the Senate Armed Services Committee has heard from General Nicholson, General Campbell, and General Votel – the senior military commanders closest to the fight – that the security situation in Afghanistan is deteriorating, which challenges the ability of the Afghan government to provide stability and security for its people. We understand that General John Nicholson is in the process of completing his assessment of the capabilities and associated troop levels he believes will be necessary in Afghanistan to confront a resurgent Taliban, a reviving Al Qaida, and a rising Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, and will make recommendations in the near future. As the Commander on the ground, we believe that his recommendations should be given extraordinary weight. We also believe that the withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan should be based on conditions on the ground and that considerations on troop levels should be driven first by what capabilities are needed to protect our national security interests in Afghanistan, and second by the number of troops it takes to enable those capabilities. Furthermore, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) will hold its Force Generation Conference beginning on June 8th and the NATO Summit in Warsaw will begin on July 8th. It is important that our allies and partners understand any changes to our planned force levels for Afghanistan before those key events to determine and plan for the number of troops they will commit to operations in Afghanistan in 2017. As has long been the case, we believe our NATO Allies and partners will follow our lead in Afghanistan. In February, General Campbell testified to Congress that “If our number continues to go down, NATO will absolutely reduce their commitment to Afghanistan.” Additionally, we do not think we are going to learn anything in the next several months that we do not know now. Should you decide to revise the planned number of U.S. troops in Afghanistan for 2017, we urge you to announce such a decision before the relevant NATO conferences convene and inform our partners and allies of that decision so they can plan accordingly. In summary, a timely decision on U.S. force levels is necessary so that our allies and partners can generate forces and make appropriate pledges for the Resolute Support Mission beginning in January 2017. We urge you to announce any changes to our current planned force levels ahead of the relevant NATO conferences, giving the strongest consideration to the assessment of your military commanders and to conditions on the ground. Sincerely, Senator John McCain Senator Joe Manchin Senator Kelly Ayotte Senator Jeanne Shaheen Senator Deb Fischer Senator Joe Donnelly Senator Tom Cotton Senator Tim Kaine Senator Lindsey Graham Senator Angus King ###
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on lifting the ban on arms sales to Vietnam. “I understand Vietnam’s human rights record is well short of international standards and know there is more that they must do on this front. However, I believe a stronger relationship between Vietnam and the United States can be of strategic importance to both nations in the years to come. It can also be beneficial in helping counter increased Chinese aggression in the region. Therefore, I support lifting the ban on arms sales to Vietnam.” ####
05.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was named a ‘Fiscal Hero’ by the Campaign to Fix the Debt for his work during the 114th Congress to improve the nation’s fiscal future and address the core drivers of the national debt. “Senator Graham has worked through a variety of channels to draw attention and find solutions to the nation’s fiscal challenges,” said Maya MacGuineas, Head of the Campaign to Fix the Debt. “While many lawmakers have chosen to bury their heads when it comes to these issues, Senator Graham has shown courage and leadership and has been willing to stand up for what is right for the country - even when it’s not easy to do so.” “The longer we wait, the more severe and difficult the choices will be to fix the debt,” MacGuineas continued. “Yet very few Members of Congress take this problem seriously. Those who do, like Senator Graham, deserve our thanks and praise.” Honorees included 26 members of the House and 21 Senators from both parties, covering a range of political views. To be named a Fiscal Hero, lawmakers distinguished themselves by casting fiscally responsible votes; pushing their party leaders to make addressing the debt a priority; leading bipartisan policy efforts; and engaging and educating constituents. The Campaign to Fix the Debt is a nonpartisan movement to put America on a better fiscal and economic path. More information on the group can be found on its website: http://www.fixthedebt.org/ #####
05.17.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today after voting to move forward with legislation which provides $1.1 billion in funding for American efforts to stop the spread of the Zika virus. The vote, which brings debate to an end and puts the measure on the path to a final vote, passed the Senate 68-29. “The threat posed by Zika is real and South Carolina, along with other southern states, are very much in the crosshairs of the virus. Time is of the essence and we must quickly deal with this threat. “President Obama sent to Congress a Zika funding proposal which was overly broad and unaccountable. I opposed his plan. “Instead of the Obama proposal, I signed onto a competing proposal which streamlines Zika funding and has built-in accountability provisions. I hope it will soon pass the Senate and eventually be signed into law by President Obama.” #####
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the Senate Armed Services Committee completing its work on the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). Graham is a member of the committee. “Ensuring our men and women in uniform have the necessary tools, training, and equipment to carry out their critical mission of protecting our nation is the first responsibility of a Member of Congress. “Overall, I thought it was a good markup. We increased pay for our troops to recognize the service and sacrifice they make on behalf of our nation. We put in place major reforms of systems within the Pentagon. We showed strong support for keeping Guantanamo Bay open and ensuring the detainees currently housed there remain there. We authorized additional funds in the Defense Health Program budget for military health system reforms. Finally, it was a good markup for MOX to ensure the Obama Administration cannot cancel the program. “I truly appreciate the leadership shown by our Chairman and Ranking Member, Senators McCain and Reed, in pushing this legislation forward. In a time of bitter divisions, their leadership in bringing the committee together gives me hope. They deserve much credit for a job well-done and our men and women in uniform will benefit from their good work.” ##### SUMMARY OF THE MAJOR PROVISIONS OF THE NDAA: http://www.armed-services.senate.gov/press-releases/senate-armed-services-committee-completes-markup-of-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2017
05.13.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the National Defense Authorization Act provides $340 million for continued construction of the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility at Savannah River Site. The NDAA was passed by the Senate Armed Services Committee yesterday. “I appreciate my colleagues on the Senate Armed Services Committee for recognizing the importance of the MOX program to the national security interests of the United States,” said Graham, who is a member of the committee. “Yesterday’s vote was another step away from the Obama Administration’s ill-conceived plan to abandon the MOX program,” continued Graham. “I will continue to work with others in the House and Senate to support the MOX program and the valuable contributions being made by SRS to our national security.” #####
05.09.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the 2016 elections. “It’s hard to believe that in a nation of more than 300 million Americans Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump will be our choices for President. “As for me, I absolutely will not support Hillary Clinton for President. She represents the third term of Barack Obama, and our nation cannot afford to continue those failed policies at home or abroad. “I also cannot in good conscience support Donald Trump because I do not believe he is a reliable Republican conservative nor has he displayed the judgment and temperament to serve as Commander in Chief. “After the election, regardless of who wins the presidency I will do everything I can to help our new President deal with the many challenges facing our nation. The next President will inherit a mess and will need all the help they can get. “I will enthusiastically support Republicans for other offices in South Carolina and throughout the country. I will focus my time, energy and effort on raising resources and advocating for our Republican majorities in the House and Senate. It is imperative that we have strong, reliable conservatives acting as a check and balance against excesses in government. I strongly encourage Republicans and Independents to vote even if you are disappointed in your choice for President. “Finally, I do not plan to attend the Republican convention in Cleveland this summer.” #####
05.09.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the passing of former Senator Bob Bennett. “I was very saddened to hear of the passing of Senator Bob Bennett. He was a great colleague, true friend, and incredibly dedicated public servant. Bob was smart and the epitome of a problem-solver. I know he will be missed by his family and many friends.” #####
04.25.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Chris Coons (D-Delaware) led a bipartisan group of eighty-three senators in a letter to President Obama supporting a new robust long-term agreement providing Israel with the necessary resources and funding needed to defend itself from increasing security threats. “In light of Israel’s dramatically rising defense challenges, we stand ready to support a substantially enhanced new long-term agreement to help provide Israel the resources it requires to defend itself and preserve its qualitative military edge,” said Senator Graham. “During a time of increased instability in the Middle East, it is important the United States and Israeli governments reaffirm their historic and unshakeable security partnership,” said Senator Coons. “I urge the Administration to swiftly conclude a new Memorandum of Understanding to allow both nations to meet growing security threats in the region.” 81 Senators joined Coons and Graham on the letter. They are U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R- Tenn.), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), John Barrasso (R-Wyo.), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), Cory Booker (D-N.J.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Shelly Moore Capito (R-W.Va.), Ben Cardin (D-Md.), Bob Casey, Jr. (D-Pa.), Bill Cassidy (R-La.), Daniel Coats (R-Ind.), Thad Cochran (R-Miss.), Susan Collins (R-Maine), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Tom Cotton (R-Ark.), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), Steve Daines (R-Mont.), Joe Donnelly (D-Ind.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.), Joni Ernst (R-Iowa), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Deb Fischer (R-Neb.), Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.), Cory Gardner (R-Colo.), Kristen Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.), Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), Mazie Hirono (D-Hawaii), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), James Inhofe (R-Okla.), Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.), Ron Johnson (R-Wisc.), Mark Kirk (R-Ill.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), James Lankford (R-Okla.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Joe Manchin (D-W.Va.), Ed Markey (D-Mass.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.), Bob Menendez (D-N.J.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Barbara Mikulski (D-Md.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Lisa Murkowski (R-Alaska), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), David Perdue (R-Ga.), Gary Peters (D-Mich.), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Harry Reid (D-Nev.), James Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), Michael Rounds (R-S.D.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), Ben Sasse (R-Neb.), Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii), Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.), Tim Scott (R-S.C.), Richard Shelby (R-Ala.), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Dan Sullivan (R-Alaska), John Thune (R-S.D.), Thom Tillis (R-N.C.), Pat Toomey (R-Pa.), David Vitter (R-La.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I), Roger Wicker (R-Miss.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). A copy of the letter is below: April 25, 2016 Dear Mr. President: We commend you for your continued work on negotiating a new Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) for security assistance to Israel. In light of Israel’s dramatically rising defense challenges, we stand ready to support a substantially enhanced new long-term agreement to help provide Israel the resources it requires to defend itself and preserve its qualitative military edge. As you know, a strong and secure Israel remains a central pillar of our national strategy to achieve peace and stability in the Middle East. Israel remains America’s strongest ally in this troubled region. Unfortunately, Israel faces a variety of threats which require increasing the resources devoted to its defense. Hezbollah has positioned up to 150,000 rockets and missiles to Israel’s north, and promises to attack at a time of its choosing. Disorder in Syria has spawned multiple terrorist groups dedicated to Israel’s destruction, including affiliates of al Qaeda and ISIS. Iran’s intervention in Syria has brought the Islamic Revolution Guard Corps and Shi’ite militias near Israel’s border. In the south, Hamas has grown its rocket and missile inventory and is actively rebuilding tunnels to attack Israel. The Sinai has become a lawless haven for militant Islamist groups. Iran is actively helping most of these groups, in addition to illicitly testing sophisticated ballistic missiles capable of carrying nuclear warheads. In March, two such weapons were launched bearing the ominous words in Hebrew: “Israel should be wiped out.” In addition to these immediate threats, Israel must take into account the possibility that regional instability could lead to the toppling of one or more of America’s friends. Given the extraordinary levels of weapons pouring into the Middle East, Israel could quickly find itself on the wrong end of the regional military balance. This problem is compounded by the mounting cost of the new aircraft and other weapons systems that Israel must acquire to keep pace with its neighbors. Moreover, Israel must prepare for the likelihood that Iran will resume its quest for nuclear weapons. Members of Congress from both parties have been proud to work with you and previous administrations to provide Israel the essential resources it needs to survive in a very tough neighborhood. The nature and breadth of the current threats, however, mean that the United States must enhance its investment in the long-term security requirements of our closest Middle East ally. Already this year, we intend to consider increasing U.S. funding in FY17 for cooperative missile defense programs, much as we have done over the past several years. Most importantly, we urge you to conclude an agreement with Israel for a robust new MOU that increases aid while retaining the current terms of our existing aid program. That MOU should pledge aid at a level that will enable Israel to combine our assistance with its own increased defense budget to meet its essential defense needs over the coming decade. We look forward to working with you on this critical issue. Sincerely,
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Senate Appropriations Committee has approved a provision which could help the Charleston Harbor deepening project move toward construction, even if Congress does not pass a Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) this year. “Sometimes we’ve needed to secure additional money for the project. Other times we’ve needed to push the Administration to keep the project on track or obtain the proper authorization,” said Graham. “This provision creates a pathway for us to obtain the authorization we need to move into the construction phase.” Graham noted the committee provision recommends up to eight new construction starts. Of the new construction starts, at least one will be for an environmental infrastructure project and at least one navigation project. The other six will be left to the Army Corps of Engineers discretion. Graham also noted the Senate bill makes $227.37 million in additional funding available for construction. When allocating funding, the Corps is encouraged to prioritize funding for projects which benefit the national economy, create jobs, allow for a non-federal sponsor to provide a cost-share, and promote economic development. Graham noted that he believes Charleston Harbor deepening fits each of those criteria. “It’s always been our goal to keep the harbor deepening project on track and completed as quickly as possible,” said Graham. “We’ve taken another step forward in that endeavor today. I truly appreciate the committee for the strong support of the Charleston Port. The message has been repeatedly delivered. Jobs are on the line, today and in the future. Today was a good day for the Port and our deepening project.” #####
04.14.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Senate Appropriations Committee rejected the Obama Administration proposal to terminate the MOX program at Savannah River Site. The committee approved $270 million in continued funding for MOX. “If the Obama Administration thinks they are going to cancel the MOX program and not have a viable path forward, they’re in for a rude awakening,” said Graham. Graham noted the Senate Armed Services Committee, of which he is also a member, has agreed to schedule a hearing with the Department of Energy to discuss the future of the MOX program. He noted the Department of Energy’s current alternative disposition plan has not been vetted and presents several major issues including: • Obtaining approval for a new plutonium disposition path from Russia which has accused the United States of breaking the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement (http://1.usa.gov/1ShFfh8); and • Questions of support level from New Mexico which has been cited as a possible repository for plutonium. http://www.cq.com/doc/news-4849943?6 “This committee has made a wise decision to look at the MOX program anew and not terminate it at this time,” said Graham. “Can the MOX program be reengineered to be cheaper and more affordable? What are the consequences of abandoning the agreement? These questions need to be answered. “This is a national and international problem,” said Graham. “If you can convince me there’s a cheaper way to do this that meets our international commitment and overcomes the regulatory and statutory hurdles I’m all ears. But, don’t give me an ill-conceived plan no one has thought through that doesn’t have a snowballs chance in hell of working. We need to get this right. And as a nation, we better get this right.” ###### Graham Speaks at Senate Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on the MOX Program http://bit.ly/1MvWOaZ
04.11.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) today wrote to the Department of Energy (DOE) noting ‘insurmountable’ problems with the Obama Administration’s plan to scrap the MOX program. Graham and Scott asked DOE about recent comments made by Russian President Vladmir Putin who accused the United States of not living it up to its signed, international obligations to destroy up to 34 metric tons of plutonium via MOX. The senators also noted that the alternative DOE plan for plutonium disposition contains numerous unanswered questions and has not been fully vetted. “We reiterate your current plan has not been fully vetted, does not have validated cost estimates, has numerous unanswered technical questions, and leads to the permanent orphaning of at least 27 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium, enough for thousands of warheads,” wrote the senators. “This is why we will pursue all the tools at our disposal to ensure that construction on the MOX program proceeds until all questions about alternatives are favorably resolved.” “We find it unfortunate that DOE’s short sighted efforts to kill MOX have allowed President Putin -- who is no friend of the United States and our foreign policy objectives --to claim the high ground about living up to international agreements,” wrote the senators. “We fear this Administration’s recent words and actions on MOX have unnecessarily harmed our nation’s long-time leadership role when it comes to nuclear nonproliferation. ###### Text of the Full Letter and Transcript of Russian President Putin on Plutonium Disposition Below Dear Secretary Moniz: We have long held that your current idea to terminate the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX) faces insurmountable problems both at home and abroad. Our concerns were further validated this week in comments by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Speaking to Russian regional and local media on April 7, President Putin harshly criticized your attempt to deviate from the terms of the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement (PMDA) stating that, “[The United States] announced that they plan to dispose of their accumulated highly enriched nuclear fuel by using a method other than what we agreed on,” and expressed concern that the dilute and dispose alternative endorsed by the Obama Administration, “preserve[s] what is known as the breakout potential, in other words it can be retrieved, reprocessed and converted into weapons-grade plutonium again.” Putin concluded his assessment of the current state of the PMDA by stating that "[o]ur partners must understand ... that they should be able to meet their obligations." Putin cited the abandonment of this agreement as a reason why he chose to skip the 2016 Nuclear Security Summit, one of President Obama’s top priorities. During a Senate Appropriations hearing before the Energy and Water subcommittee, you testified that, “[we] have had informal discussions [with the Russians] which have been positive.” Clearly, this is not the case and unfortunately fits a pattern when it comes to dealing with DOE. DOE has thus far been unable to answer the most basic of questions relating to the path forward with a MOX alternative. Additionally, DOE has yet to answer the policy and technical questions included in the FY16 National Defense Authorization Act. Any effort to pivot away from the MOX program should be closely scrutinized to ensure the mistakes endemic in all major DOE programs are not repeated. Despite the many potentially insurmountable domestic and international obstacles to changing the terms of the PMDA, DOE decided to cancel the MOX program in the President’s FY17 budget request. Again, we reiterate your current plan has not been fully vetted, does not have validated cost estimates, has numerous unanswered technical questions, and leads to the permanent orphaning of at least 27 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium, enough for thousands of warheads. This is why we will pursue all the tools at our disposal to ensure that construction on the MOX program proceeds until all questions about alternatives are favorably resolved. Finally, President Obama has put a lot of time, energy, and effort into hosting these nuclear security and nonproliferation summits. We find it unfortunate that DOE’s short sighted efforts to kill MOX have allowed President Putin -- who is no friend of the United States and our foreign policy objectives -- to claim the high ground about living up to international agreements. We fear this Administration’s recent words and actions on MOX have unnecessarily harmed our nation’s long-time leadership role when it comes to nuclear nonproliferation. We are including the full question and answer between President Putin and Ilya Lochkanov for your reference. TRANSCRIPT: http://en.kremlin.ru/events/president/transcripts/51685 Ilya Lochkanov: Good afternoon, Mr President. My name is Ilya Lochkanov and I am from Belgorod. What interests me is the following question. A nuclear security summit recently took place in Washington, and many countries attended, but Russia did not – neither you, nor any Russian representative. Were you invited to take part? Why did things happen this way? My second question is more personal: Could you describe the Russia of your dreams? Thank you. Vladimir Putin: Let us start with the more important question, the second one. Russia should be an independent, strong, effective, modern and future-focused country. It should be a country in which it is comfortable, agreeable and prestigious to live. As for your other question, whether I was invited or not, yes, I was invited, and my colleague invited me personally. Frankly speaking, I was not opposed to the idea of taking part, but our experts in the nuclear field and the Foreign Ministry did not recommend it for the following reasons. First, as it became clear, this was an event ‘amongst ourselves’, a primarily American event. Normally, events of this sort and level take place on a consensus basis, with the possibility of taking part in drafting the final resolutions. In this case, however, it was all divided into five groups, I believe, and they proposed that we take part in only one. This meant that our representatives could make their contribution to the final decisions only in one area. In other words, we would not have been able to take part in drafting any overall documents that might have been adopted. However, a big nuclear power like Russia cannot take part in an event such as this and not have the possibility to influence the drafting of the final resolutions. We said so directly and frankly to our partners some time ago now. The other circumstance is that back in the early 2000s, the Americans and we agreed on destroying weapons-grade plutonium. This agreement covered surplus weapons-grade plutonium produced at US enterprises and at ours. This is the highly enriched fissile material that is used to make nuclear weapons. Each side had 34 tonnes. We signed this agreement and settled on the procedures for the material’s destruction, agreed that this would be done on an industrial basis, which required the construction of special facilities. Russia fulfilled its obligations in this regard and built these facilities, but our American partners did not. Moreover, only recently, they announced that they plan to dispose of their accumulated highly enriched nuclear fuel by using a method other than what we agreed on when we signed the corresponding agreement, but by diluting and storing it in certain containers. This means that they preserve what is known as the breakout potential, in other words it can be retrieved, reprocessed and converted into weapons-grade plutonium again. This is not what we agreed on. Now we will have to think about what to do about this and how to respond to this. By all indications, this will also be an irritant, which will provoke a corresponding reaction and a search for new offshores. However, our partners should understand that jokes aside, all their efforts to promote information products aimed against Russia are one thing, but serious issues, especially with regard to nuclear arms, are quite a different matter and one should be able to meet one’s obligations.
04.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Sheldon Whitehouse (D-Rhode Island) today voted in support of the Defend Trade Secrets Act. The bipartisan legislation, which both senators cosponsored, passed the Senate by a vote of 87-0. “This is an important piece of legislation which will help protect companies from unscrupulous actors in the marketplace,” said Graham. “At the end of the day, this is about American innovation and this legislation will help protect American jobs, workers, and companies. It has strong bipartisan support and I hope it will become law this year.” “This is important bipartisan‎ legislation to address a major threat to American companies and our ability to compete in an international marketplace," said Whitehouse, who proposed a series of changes to the Defend Trade Secrets Act designed to protect property and privacy rights, ensure due process, and to provide better guidance to law enforcement officials charged with executing DTSA seizures. Those changes were included in the version of the bill that passed today. “I am glad the bill included my improvements to help protect privacy and property rights. Thank you to the lead sponsors for taking my concerns into account, and I look forward to this bill becoming law.” Whitehouse and Graham noted that confidential trade secrets give businesses an edge in the marketplace and depending on the industry, trade secrets can include manufacturing processes, formulas, computer algorithms, industrial designs, business strategies, customer lists, and more. American companies have become increasingly concerned about protecting themselves against threats, including hackers and rogue employees, who seek to steal this important information. The highlights of the legislation include: • Allowing companies the right to sue in federal court to recover damages, enforce injunctions, and prevent the further dissemination of stolen trade secrets; • Creating a uniform standard for what constitutes trade secret theft. Under current law, if a company wants to sue, they are relegated to state courts, where slightly varied state laws apply; • Providing law enforcement additional tools for prosecuting criminal trade secret theft. The legislation will now be sent to the House of Representatives.
04.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today signed on to an amicus brief in the United States Supreme Court opposing President Obama’s unilateral actions on immigration. The brief is in support of a challenge by a majority of the nation’s governors and attorneys generals to the Obama Administration’s November 2014 executive actions on immigration. The Supreme Court took up this case (United States of America vs. State of Texas) after the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in November of 2015 affirmed a preliminary injunction by a federal district court in Brownsville, Texas blocking the Obama Administration from moving forward with actions that are in violation of federal law. The Supreme Court is set to hear arguments on this case on April 18th. “Given that the Executive has asserted that the acts challenged here are not even subject to judicial review, what is at stake in this matter is nothing less than an effort to supplant Congress’s constitutional power to ‘establish an uniform Rule of Naturalization.’ Such an action stands in stark contravention to federal law and to the constitutional principle of the separation of powers,” the Senators’ amicus brief states. “There is little doubt that the Executive adopted the Deferred Action for Parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents (‘DAPA’) program as part of an explicit effort to circumvent the legislative process.” Graham was joined on the brief by 43 Senators. A copy of the brief is available at: http://www.mcconnell.senate.gov/public/?a=Files.Serve&File_id=756FB156-997E-43F9-B576-1812BFC8C5EE
03.16.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, today made this statement on President Obama’s Supreme Court nomination. “As I have repeatedly stated, the election cycle is well under way and the precedent of the Senate is not to confirm a nominee at this stage in the process. I strongly support giving the American people a voice in choosing the next Supreme Court nominee by electing a new president. I hope all Americans understand how important their vote is when it comes to picking a new Supreme Court Justice. The American people should choose wisely this November. “Finally, one thing I know for sure is that if the shoe was on the other foot, the Democratic leadership would not even entertain such an appointment coming from a Republican president. How do I know? By their words and example. In this limited circumstance, I’m following the recommendations of Democratic Senators Reid, Schumer and then-Senator Biden. It was a rare moment of clarity when they made it clear that in circumstances like these, the president’s nominee should not be confirmed.” #####
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today after chairing a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing regarding the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act and late term abortions. “We had a great hearing today in the Senate Judiciary Committee in support of legislation I introduced, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. A few highlights from the hearing. • None of the witnesses provided medical testimony to challenge our underlying premise that at 20 weeks the unborn child can feel excruciating pain. • The witnesses also didn’t challenge our assertion that there are only seven nations in the world, including the United States that allow abortion on demand at 20 weeks, the fifth month of pregnancy. It’s a bad club and one the United States should not be part of. • Finally, as to the bill’s requirement to provide medical care to any child who survives abortion, the response was overwhelming. Melissa Ohden’s testimony was incredibly emotional and persuasive. As she said, the abortionist views their patient as the mother, not the child. It is clear Congress needs to require abortion providers to seek medical care for any unborn child that survives an abortion. “Today’s hearing left me hopeful that over time we will build a strong, bipartisan majority to enact this legislation which will put America in a better place.” ####
03.11.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said Standard Textile’s agreement with Marriott International to provide “Made in the USA” towels and bath mats in every guest bathroom of nearly 3,000 U.S. hotels was good for American workers. Graham noted Standard Textile has a production facility in Union, South Carolina and the agreement will help create approximately 150 new jobs, many of them at the South Carolina facility. “South Carolina has a rich textile history which has fallen on tough times in recent years,” said Graham. “I grew up in a textile community in the town of Central near Clemson University. I understand and appreciate the contributions that textiles have made to both our state and nation through the years. Today’s announcement is great news as it will help grow the textile industry in South Carolina. I’m very appreciative of Marriott and Standard Textile for this agreement which will clearly benefit American workers.”
03.07.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today wrote to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr., requesting answers to questions that have been raised about the legality of future presidential orders and whether the military would comply. A copy of the letter is below and is here. General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr. Chairman, Joint Chiefs of Staff 9999 Joint Staff Pentagon, Room 2D920 Washington, DC 20318 Dear General Dunford: As a former military lawyer, an author of the Detainee Treatment Act of 2005, and a longtime member of the Senate Armed Service Committee, I have a deep and abiding interest in how our military fights the War on Terror. One of the things I most admire about you is that your warrior spirit coexists with an ethical underpinning. It makes you, and all who serve in the armed forces, the finest fighting force the world has known. Recently, questions have been raised about the tactics that have been employed to fight the War on Terror. It has been suggested that the United States should intentionally target terrorist families, including children, who are noncombatants as a reprisal. It has also been suggested that the United States go back to waterboarding and if necessary, use more extreme interrogation techniques. In light of the renewed debate, I would like your opinion on these matters: • Is the intentional targeting of noncombatant family members of terrorists legal under the law of war? • What impact would this policy have on our overall war effort? • Additionally, please share your views as to whether waterboarding or other extreme interrogation techniques are authorized and legal for the United States military? What impact would their use have on the war effort? • Finally, if issued orders to target noncombatants, including children, or to use waterboarding or other extreme interrogation techniques, would you view these orders as lawful? In addition, what advice would you provide to service members if such orders were issued? I appreciate your input and thoughts on this matter. I look forward to working with you to continue to defeat those who seek to destroy our way of life. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham United States Senator
02.23.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has sent a letter to Majority Leader Mitch McConnell saying he does not believe Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee should hold a hearing or vote on President Obama’s Supreme Court nominee. Graham was joined in the letter by ten fellow Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee. “Given the particular circumstances under which this vacancy arises, we wish to inform you of our intention to exercise our constitutional authority to withhold consent on any nominee to the Supreme Court submitted by this President to fill Justice Scalia’s vacancy,” wrote Graham and the senators. “Because our decision is based on constitutional principle and born of a necessity to protect the will of the American people, this Committee will not hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee until after our next President is sworn in on January 20, 2017.” “As we mourn the tragic loss of Justice Antonin Scalia, and celebrate his life’s work, the American people are presented with an exceedingly rare opportunity to decide, in a very real and concrete way, the direction the Court will take over the next generation. We believe The People should have this opportunity,” the senators wrote. A copy of the text of the letter is below: Dear Majority Leader McConnell, As we write, we are in the midst of a great national debate over the course our country will take in the coming years. The Presidential election is well underway. Americans have already begun to cast their votes. As we mourn the tragic loss of Justice Antonin Scalia, and celebrate his life’s work, the American people are presented with an exceedingly rare opportunity to decide, in a very real and concrete way, the direction the Court will take over the next generation. We believe The People should have this opportunity. Over the last few days, much has been written about the constitutional power to fill Supreme Court vacancies, a great deal of it inaccurate. Article II, Section 2 of the Constitution is clear. The President may nominate judges of the Supreme Court. But the power to grant, or withhold, consent to such nominees rests exclusively with the United States Senate. This is not a difficult or novel constitutional question. As Minority Leader Harry Reid observed in 2005, “The duties of the Senate are set forth in the U.S. Constitution. Nowhere in that document does it say the Senate has a duty to give the Presidential nominees a vote. It says appointments shall be made with the advice and consent of the Senate. That is very different than saying every nominee receives a vote.” We intend to exercise the constitutional power granted the Senate under Article II, Section 2 to ensure the American people are not deprived of the opportunity to engage in a full and robust debate over the type of jurist they wish to decide some of the most critical issues of our time. Not since 1932 has the Senate confirmed in a presidential election year a Supreme Court nominee to a vacancy arising in that year. And it is necessary to go even further back — to 1888 — in order to find an election year nominee who was nominated and confirmed under divided government, as we have now. Accordingly, given the particular circumstances under which this vacancy arises, we wish to inform you of our intention to exercise our constitutional authority to withhold consent on any nominee to the Supreme Court submitted by this President to fill Justice Scalia’s vacancy. Because our decision is based on constitutional principle and born of a necessity to protect the will of the American people, this Committee will not hold hearings on any Supreme Court nominee until after our next President is sworn in on January 20, 2017. Sincerely, Chuck Grassley Orrin Hatch Jeff Sessions Lindsey Graham John Cornyn Mike Lee Ted Cruz Jeff Flake David Vitter David Perdue Thom Tillis
02.18.2016	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Apple CEO Tim Cook’s decision not to assist the FBI in unlocking the iPhone of a dead terrorist who killed 14 Americans in San Bernardino, California. A judge has ordered Cook and Apple to assist the FBI in unlocking the iPhone. “Our nation is at war and this iPhone was used to kill Americans. We need to protect our homeland, not terrorists. To Tim Cook and Apple, cooperate with the FBI.” ####
02.09.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Obama Administration’s decision to terminate the MOX program at Savannah River Site and the Obama Administration’s budget submission to Congress. OBAMA BUDGET: “I strongly oppose the Obama budget. I’m glad to see that it has no support, no backing, and it’s not going anywhere.” MOX FUNDING: “The Obama Administration's reckless proposal to terminate the MOX program, without a proven disposition plan in place, is both ill-conceived and dangerous. This isn’t the first time they have proposed halting the MOX program, but given the fact their time in office is running short, thankfully it is their last. “I look forward to a new presidential administration taking office in 2017 that will hopefully honor the commitment made to South Carolina when it comes to plutonium disposition. “In 2000 we signed an agreement with the Russians and later identified the MOX program as the disposition path for 34 metric tons of weapons-grade plutonium held by the US in excess of our defense needs. The Russians have agreed to reduce their stockpiles by the same amount. “As we have seen first-hand from their dealings with the Iranians, negotiating with a tough adversary is not a strong suit of the Obama Administration. Now is not the time to change course and have the Obama Administration try to renegotiate anything with the Russians. It will not end well for U.S. interests. One can only imagine what the Russians will ask for in return. “Finally, the Obama Administration refuses to face up to the reality that today there is no viable alternative to MOX. Simply scrapping the MOX program and not honoring the commitment made to South Carolina is a non-starter. If they have a better idea, one that is well-thought out and properly vetted, then they should bring it forward. Right now, they have nothing.”
01.21.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) participated in a press conference today held by U.S. Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) to highlight the recent developments in Iran since the implementation of the Iranian Nuclear Agreement. “Secretary Kerry announced to the world that it’s likely that Iran will use some of this money [from sanctions relief] to support terrorism. Secretary Kerry, it is certain that they will use this money to support terrorism. You might as well have written the check to Assad yourself. You might as well have founded Hezbollah yourself. So all of this cash going into the Ayatollah’s pockets, won’t stay long. It’s not going into roads and bridges in Iran. It’s going into war machines throughout the Mid-East. And to think otherwise is completely naïve.” http://bit.ly/1Wyj7x2 “They [Iran] violated the U.N resolutions regarding their missile program. They didn’t even get slapped on the hand. So here’s what we’re saying, we’re watching the administration deal with Iran and our heart falls. So the Congress is going to step up to the plate. Our Democratic friends hopefully will join us to push back against an Iranian regime who shows absolutely no respect for the rule of law, human rights, and human dignity.” - http://bit.ly/1nq388Q “They [Iran] have a pathway to a bomb, a missile to deliver it, and money to pay for it. That’s what this agreement does. It’s the biggest miscalculation since Munich and the Congress is going to fight back at every turn, starting with their violations of the U.N. resolutions regarding their missile testing program.” - http://bit.ly/1OzYBsO “There’s going to be a debate in 2016 on the floor of the United States Senate about Iran. So to my Democrat and Republican colleagues, get ready to have a say, get ready to stand up and be counted.” - http://bit.ly/1OJ6YjV
01.14.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the 52-foot Charleston Harbor Deepening Project has received the Chief’s Report from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. This is the final substantive approval required for the project to progress through construction. The report outlines the recommendation of deepening the Charleston harbor channel to 52 feet and entrance channel to 54 feet, as well as enlarging turning basins to accommodate for post-Panamax vessels. Graham said: “This is fantastic news for the Charleston Port and our state’s economy. Ensuring the Charleston Harbor deepening project remains on track has been and remains a top priority for me. We’ve come a long way in a very short amount of time. I’m proud of Jim Newsome, the Port leadership team and all the work we have done thus far, but I will not stop pushing until this project is completed. “With this latest development, we’ll now push Congress to provide us with the tools needed to finish the job. I realize that jobs, both today and in the future, are at stake with this project. Our economic future, and the livelihood of thousands of people in the Palmetto State depend on getting this project done. When it comes to deepening Charleston Harbor, failure is simply not an option.” ###
01.05.2016	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today expressed concerns about President Obama’s executive actions on gun control. “Every American should be concerned about the executive actions announced by President Obama,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I fear it may prove to be yet another executive overreach and affront to our constitutional system of checks and balances.” Graham again called on President Obama and Democrats in Congress to support bipartisan legislation he has introduced which would deny guns to individuals who have a history of severe mental illness. Graham noted the case of South Carolina resident Alice Boland, a mentally disturbed individual who once pled ‘not guilty by reason of insanity’ in federal court for threatening to kill the President of the United States. In 2013, Boland passed a background check and was able to legally purchase a firearm. She then went to Ashley Hall, a school in Charleston, where she tried to shoot several school officials. “An individual who pleads ‘not guilty by reason of insanity’ should not be able to pass a federal background check and legally purchase a gun,” said Graham. “If President Obama wants to sign bipartisan legislation to expand background checks and keep guns out of the hands of people who should not have them, he should support my legislation. With President Obama’s backing, we could pass it in no time.” #####
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the year-end spending bill set to be voted on in Congress today contains funding to begin and complete construction of a new federal courthouse in Greenville. The new facility will be called the Carroll A. Campbell Jr. Federal Courthouse, in honor of the late Governor of South Carolina. It is expected to be a 10-story building built on two acres across the street from the Greenville County Courthouse on East North Street. “Greenville long ago outgrew the small federal building forcing many agencies to lease space in areas less convenient for the public and making the court’s operations less efficient,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “I’m confident the new courthouse have a positive, long-lasting impact on the community and the citizens of Greenville. I’m very proud of the work that went into this effort and the fact that the new courthouse will soon become reality.” “Downtown Greenville is becoming a showcase city and a new federal courthouse will only add to that dynamic,” continued Graham. “This has been a high priority for community leaders for years and I’m very pleased it looks like we are now going to get it over the finish line.” “It has been about 10 years since Congress first recognized the need, so we are glad the funding is finally in place,” said Greenville Mayor Knox White. “We appreciate Senator Graham's persistence in moving this project forward. He has been a great partner with the City of Greenville.” The year-end funding bill contains approximately $92 million for site design and construction of the new facility. Congress has already allocated $11 million for preliminary work on the facility and in 2011 bought the two-acre property where the courthouse will be built. The total cost of the new Greenville Federal Courthouse is expected to be $103 million. #####
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of legislation to fund the federal government through fiscal year 2016. Graham cited an increase in military spending and several important South Carolina priorities in voting for the measure. “This bill is far from perfect but it does take important steps to begin the long process of rebuilding our military. We have been asking more of our military, yet we have been asking them to do more with less. Our Armed Forces have suffered greatly from the impact of sequestration. That dynamic must change and this bill begins addressing the very real problems facing our military. Graham also noted the legislation contains some important provisions for South Carolina including: • Making South Carolina eligible for up to $300 million in funding to help cover losses associated with the historic October flooding in South Carolina. The funds could be used for unmet housing needs and to help the state’s agricultural industry which suffered tremendous losses. • $340 million in funding for the construction and operation of the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility at Savannah River Site. The program will turn surplus weapons-grade plutonium into nuclear fuel to power a commercial nuclear reactor. For years, the Obama Administration has exercised poor oversight over MOX and has sought to terminate the program regardless of the consequences to our nation’s nonproliferation concerns or the interests of South Carolina. • $92 million in funding to begin and complete construction of a new federal courthouse in Greenville. The new facility will be called the Carroll A. Campbell Jr. Federal Courthouse, in honor of the late Governor of South Carolina. It is expected to be a 10-story building built on two acres across the street from the Greenville County Courthouse. ##### BACKGROUND ON MILITARY SPENDING IN YEAR-END BILL Readiness – $213.6 billion for operation and maintenance accounts to enable the Services to continue addressing their most urgent training and maintenance deficiencies. The bill also recommends an additional $608 million to reduce readiness shortfalls. Aircraft Procurement – The bill addresses several unfunded requirements and boosts Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities through the procurement of multiple air frames such as seven additional E/A-18G Growler aircraft, five additional F/A-18E/F Super Hornet fighter aircraft, six additional F-35 Joint Strike Fighters for the Marine Corps, three additional F-35s for the Air Force, two additional F-35s for the Navy, four additional MQ-9 UAV Reaper aircraft for the Air Force, and a $500 million increase for ISR capabilities. In all, the bill provides $1.33 billion for eleven additional F-35s, $1.01 billion for 12 additional Navy Growlers and Super Hornets, and $80 million for four additional MQ-9 UAV Reapers. Army Aviation Restructure Initiative (ARI) – The bill contains a provision limiting the number of National Guard Apaches that can be transferred in FY2016 to 48 aircraft until June 30, 2016. The provision conforms to the FY2016 National Defense Authorization Act (PL.114-92). Shipbuilding – The bill provides $18.7 billion for Navy shipbuilding programs, an increase of $2.1 billion and one ship from the request. In total, the bill funds the construction of 11 new warships: two Virginia class submarines, two DDG-51 destroyers, three Littoral Combat Ships (LCS), LPD 28 amphibious transport dock, one Joint High Speed Vessel, one Afloat Forward Staging Base ship and one T-AO Fleet Replenishment Oiler. The bill also provides incremental funding, as authorized in the National Defense Authorization Act, for one Arleigh Burke-class destroyer in addition to the 10 DDG-51s in the fiscal year 2013-2017 multiyear procurement contract. Missile Defense – The bill provides $8.1 billion for the Missile Defense Agency (MDA), an increase of $175 million above the President’s request. This fully funds MDA’s top priorities to modernize the Ground Based Interceptor, develop a Long Range Discrimination Radar that will be fielded in Alaska, and field the European Phased Adaptive Approach (EPAA) Phase III, which includes fielding of Aegis Ashore sites in Romania and Poland. The bill recommends an additional $329.8 million for Israeli missile defense programs, including $150 million to begin production of the David’s Sling Weapon System, in support of the government of Israel. Further, the bill recommends an additional $97.6 million for ballistic missile defense upgrades to DDG-51 destroyers. Missiles – The bill reflects investments in critical missile procurement programs underfunded by the Services, including recommending an additional $100 million in procurement funds for Patriot Missile Segment Enhancement (PAC-3 MSE) missiles for the Army, $141 million for Javelin missiles for the Army and Marine Corps, and $70 million to support Tube-Launched, Optically Tracked, Wire-Guided (TOW) missiles for the Marine Corps. The bill also adds $30 million for Tomahawk missiles, an investment that supports a high-demand Navy program. National Guard and Reserve Equipment Account – The bill provides $1 billion for National Guard and Reserve equipment to modernize our reserve forces and ensure full interoperability with the active duty force. Basic Research Investments – The bill adds $220.5 million to basic (non-medical) research for the Army, Navy, Air Force and DoD. Next Generation Rocket Engine – The bill includes an additional $143.6 million for the Air Force to continue development of a new U.S.-made engine as an alternative to the Russian-made RD-180 engine used in the Atlas V launch vehicle. This enables the Air Force to move expeditiously to a new, domestically-produced engine that would end the nation’s reliance on Russia for access to space. Unmanned Carrier Launched Airborne Surveillance and Strike (UCLASS) System – The bill adds $300 million for competitive UCLASS air vehicle development and supports continued development of these technologies on a competitive basis. Senior Navy intelligence leaders have expressed concerns that a delay to the program would risk the United States falling behind in the development of an unmanned aerial vehicle from an aircraft carrier. Cyber Vulnerability Assessments – The bill recommends an increase of $100 million for the DoD to complete cyber vulnerability assessments of all major weapon systems. Military Personnel and Pay – The bill funds an active duty end strength of 1,308,915 and reserve component end strength of 811,000, as authorized. It funds a 1.3 percent pay raise for military personnel, as requested by the DoD and authorized by the National Defense Authorization Act. Troops and Families – The bill maintains a strong commitment to taking care of troops and their families and recommends an additional $11 million for behavioral health counseling; an additional $25 million for the continued implementation of the Sexual Assault Special Victims’ Counsel program across the Services; and an increase of $34 million to develop a financial education program to educate service members on best practices with regard to career transition, health benefits, retirement planning and savings, and overall financial readiness. Defense Health – The bill provides $32.3 billion for the Defense Health Program, which provides medical services for military personnel and their families, continues advancements in medical research, modernizes and maintains medical infrastructure and develops the next generation of electronic health records. The bill also increases the DoD core medical research budget as well as congressionally-directed medical research funding by $1.2 billion, including $278.7 million for the competitively awarded peer-reviewed medical research program and $207.5 million for the Department to advance its own medical research priorities. Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) –The amounts provided enable the DoD to meet emerging threats and support ongoing military operations against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). The bill also provides an additional $1.3 billion for Operation Freedom’s Sentinel based on the announcement that 9,800 troops will remain in Afghanistan through most of 2016.
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today secured millions in funding in the year-end appropriations bill to help cover losses associated with the historic October flooding in South Carolina. The funds could be used for unmet housing needs and to help the state’s agricultural industry which suffered tremendous losses. “While the flood rains have stopped, the devastation still cripples and haunts many South Carolinians,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “Families whose homes were devastated by the flood will now have an opportunity to seek housing assistance and remediation for their homes. To our farming community, I strongly support the ability of farmers to access disaster relief funds for non-covered losses. I believe farmers are critical to the sovereignty and security of our Nation. They should at a minimum have the same access to relief funds as any other small business or homeowner.” Graham noted South Carolina farmers would be eligible for funds secured for the Emergency Watershed Protection Program, the Emergency Forestry Restoration Program, and the Emergency Conservation Program. “Finally, South Carolina Ag Commissioner Hugh Weathers, the Clemson Extension Service, and the newly elected South Carolina Farm Bureau President, Harry Ott, have been an invaluable source of support,” said Graham. “I will continue to work hand-in-glove with them to find a solution for our farmers. Without their efforts and those of individual South Carolina farmers, we would not have even seen modest success in securing recovery funds.” “I truly appreciate my Senate colleague Tim Scott and House Colleagues Jim Clyburn and Tom Rice for their passion and leadership, and also the Senate Appropriations Committee for hearing our concerns and answering our calls for assistance,” concluded Graham. #####
12.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was pleased the year-end funding bill Congress will soon vote on provides funding for the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility at the Savannah River Site (SRS). One of Senator Graham’s highest priorities in this year’s appropriations process was to overcome the Obama Administration’s poorly conceived efforts to cancel the MOX program. At Graham’s request and through his work in the Senate Appropriations Committee, this year’s appropriation bill contains $340 million in support of the construction and eventual operation of the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility at the SRS. “This is a big, big win for the Savannah River Site,” said Graham. “There has been a lot of anxiety and uncertainty in the community about the program’s future, particularly after the Obama Administration tried to cancel the program, which would have left South Carolina stuck with several tons of weapons grade plutonium. This funding will hopefully help alleviate some of those concerns.” Graham has been a long-time proponent of the MOX program which will turn surplus weapons-grade plutonium into nuclear fuel to power a commercial nuclear reactor. For years, the Obama Administration has exercised poor oversight over MOX and has sought to terminate the program regardless of the consequences to our nation’s nonproliferation concerns or the interests of South Carolina. Senator Graham’s priority is to meet our nation’s national security objectives and to move the material out of South Carolina. “I also want to thank my friends and South Carolina colleagues, Joe Wilson and Tim Scott,” said Graham. “They, along with the members of the appropriations committee, understand the importance of this program to the local community, state of South Carolina, and our nation. They were instrumental in helping us move the ball forward toward our goal.” ######
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following President Obama’s meeting at the Pentagon with his National Security Council. “President Obama’s visit to the Pentagon today has changed nothing. He is still underselling the threats, overselling our successes and relying on an air campaign that can never destroy ISIL. “While there have been some tactical gains in Iraq and Syria, there is still no strategy to destroy the Caliphate. These tactical gains have been more than offset by the expansion of ISIL beyond Iraq and Syria, including into Libya where they have captured Gaddafi’s hometown of Sirte. “The President’s reluctance to increase American boots on the ground in Iraq to destroy ISIL and his refusal to create a regional army to go into Syria to destroy the Caliphate, guarantees our next President will have to deal with this problem. “At the end of the day, President Obama’s plan is not to destroy ISIL but instead to contain the threat and pass it on to the next President. “When it comes to ISIL, however, time is not on our side. The Paris attack was well planned and very sophisticated. I fear that another 9/11 is being planned by ISIL leadership in Raqqa, Syria today. Unless we go in on the ground to destroy the Caliphate and disrupt their operations, it's only a matter of time before that plan is realized. “President Obama’s unwillingness to work with his military commanders to develop a strategy to destroy ISIL as quickly as possible increases the threat to the American homeland.” ###
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter in the Senate Armed Services Committee and FBI Director James Comey in the Senate Judiciary Committee about the threat of terrorism facing the United States and the strategy to destroy ISIL. GRAHAM QUESTIONS SECRETARY OF DEFENSE CARTER GRAHAM: I am making a simple proposition to this President, that I will give you whatever you need in terms of my authorization to go wherever you need to go, as long as it takes to use whatever available tools you have within legal limits to destroy this threat. Mr. President, are you all in or not? The Secretary of Defense seems to be indicating this is good military policy. To my colleagues on the other side, if we produce an authorization to use military force restricted by time, means or geography, you’re sending a message to the enemy I will not send. You’re restricting our ability to defend this homeland with an imminent attack coming. http://bit.ly/1YZ8sgz GRAHAM: Let’s have a discussion. Let the enemy know without hesitation, there’s no limitations on time, means, or location when it comes to destroying ISIL. Mr. President, embrace this authorization for you and future presidents, because the country needs it. http://bit.ly/1YZjv9k Additional information on Graham’s Authorization to Use Military Force (AUMF) is available: http://1.usa.gov/1maY4En GRAHAM QUESTIONS FBI DIRECTOR COMEY GRAHAM: Do you agree with the following statement: There are more terrorist organizations with men, equipment and safe havens along with the desire to attack the American homeland any time since 9/11? DIRECTOR COMEY: I agree. http://bit.ly/1REOtle GRAHAM: Is it fair to say the Paris attack was a very sophisticated, well-planned attack that came from Syria? DIRECTOR COMEY: Yes. GRAHAM: Is it fair to say that those people who planned the Paris attack would hit us here at home if they could? DICECTOR COMEY: Yes. http://bit.ly/1RES4zv GRAHAM: What do you think the likelihood of another 9/11 against the homeland will be if we don’t destroy the Caliphate in Syria and Iraq in the next year? DIRECTOR COMEY: Certainly a very hard question for me to answer. They’re ability to have a safe haven from which to gather resources, people and plan and plot, increases the risk of their ability to mount a sophisticated attack against the homeland. GRAHAM: So the best strategy would be, at least in the short term, - they’re large, they’re rich, they’re entrenched - is to make them small, poor, and on the run. Would that be a good approach to ISIL? DIRECTOR COMEY: That makes sense and my understanding is that is the aim. http://bit.ly/1NbJYLC
12.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has written to President Obama urging him to support the Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) Graham introduced last week. “Unlike some other proposals, my Joint Resolution does not place artificial constraints on you, and your successors, as the commander-in-chief”, wrote Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Instead, it allows for the use of military force, including the use of U.S. ground troops, wherever, whenever, and however needed to destroy this terrorist organization. Placing artificial limitations on the authorization would be seen as a sign of weakness by ISIL and a lack of resolve by our allies. In his letter, Graham highlights the threat al Qaeda posed to U.S. national security following the 9/11 attacks. “There should be little question that the threat posed by ISIL is no less than the threat posed by al Qaeda prior to the terrorist attacks that killed almost 3,000 people on September 11, 2001,” said Graham. “Therefore, the AUMF that we send to you needs to provide the commander-in-chief the same authority we gave President George W. Bush after these attacks. “We must counter this threat and send a clear message to the ISIL terrorists: we will hunt you down and kill you no matter how long it takes,” writes Graham. “You are not safe anywhere.” “The destruction of ISIL must be a top national security priority,” said Graham. “My AUMF provides the latitude required to destroy ISIL and any of its successor organizations, using the full power of our military. I urge you to work with Congress to pass this AUMF immediately.” A copy of the letter is here and text of the letter is below. ### December 8, 2015 The Honorable President Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: Last week I introduced an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) to defend the national security of the United States against the threat posed by Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and to give you, and future Presidents, the power necessary to destroy ISIL. Unlike some other proposals, my Joint Resolution does not place artificial constraints on you, and your successors, as the commander-in-chief. Instead, it allows for the use of military force, including the use of U.S. ground troops, wherever, whenever, and however needed to destroy this terrorist organization. Placing artificial limitations on the authorization would be seen as a sign of weakness by ISIL and a lack of resolve by our allies. There should be little question that the threat posed by ISIL is no less than the threat posed by al Qaeda prior to the terrorist attacks that killed almost 3,000 people on September 11, 2001. Therefore, the AUMF that we send to you needs to provide the commander-in-chief the same authority we gave President George W. Bush after these attacks. ISIL poses a serious threat to our regional allies, our partners, and our homeland. We must counter this threat and send a clear message to the ISIL terrorists: we will hunt you down and kill you no matter how long it takes. You are not safe anywhere. The destruction of ISIL must be a top national security priority. Their reign of terror, which includes the systematic murder of countless men, women, and children, has expanded beyond the borders of Iraq and Syria and into Egypt, Lebanon, Tunisia, and France. My AUMF provides the latitude required to destroy ISIL and any of its successor organizations, using the full power of our military. I urge you to work with Congress to pass this AUMF immediately. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham United States Senator
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a leading proponent and one of the most outspoken supporters of the Export-Import (EXIM) Bank, said he was pleased that the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate are sending legislation which puts the bank back in business to President Obama. Graham noted South Carolina and the United States were hurt on the job front for the more than five months as the EXIM Bank was closed for business. In September, General Electric said it would locate 400 jobs in France instead of its power turbine plant in Greenville and two other locations in the United States because of the lack of availability of EXIM financing. (http://grnol.co/1QEnvYD) "I don’t think there is any doubt that the shutdown of EXIM cost us jobs in South Carolina and across the nation,” said Graham. “This wasn't an academic debate. There were real people holding real jobs who were hurt by the closing of EXIM. It was irresponsible for the United States to unilaterally disarm while other nations with export credit agencies, many of them much larger than ours, took advantage of our unforced error. We should never make that mistake again.” Graham noted the Bank’s reauthorization provides South Carolina an opportunity to expand its robust manufacturing sector. The Bank’s reauthorization signals to exporters and their suppliers, the United States is committed to ensuring a level playing field and international competitiveness. This certainty allows our manufacturing sectors and future investors to continue job growth in South Carolina. Graham played an instrumental role in putting the bank back in business. Graham forced Senate votes which would put the body on record in support of the bank, paving the path for eventual reauthorization. “Today is good news for both small and large businesses in South Carolina who use EXIM financing to sell their goods and services overseas” said Graham. “Whether it’s Boeing building 787 Dreamliners in North Charleston, General Electric building gas turbines in Greenville, or one of the many small manufacturers across our state, this is a good day for job creation. American businesses will now once again be competing on a level playing field in the international marketplace. It's long overdue." Established in 1934, EXIM is the official export credit agency of the United States. EXIM is an independent, self-sustaining agency with a mission of supporting American jobs by facilitating the export of U.S. goods and services. The Bank guarantees loans and credit to businesses otherwise unable to operate through private lenders. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank's transactions each year directly benefit small businesses, and the Bank supports more than 205,000 American jobs. #####
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced an Authorization for Use of Military Force (AUMF) against the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), its associated forces, and any successor organizations. “The AUMF I introduced today will not limit us in terms of time, geography, or means in the fight against ISIL,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “It will show our enemies and friends alike that we will destroy ISIL wherever they reside, fight them as long as they pose a threat, and that we are ‘All-In’ when it comes to their destruction. We have two choices regarding ISIL – fight them in their backyard or fight them in ours. I choose to fight them in their backyard.” Graham noted his expansive AUMF includes these major provisions: • Use of military force by the United States is authorized to destroy ISIL. • No geographic limits are placed on American military in the fight against ISIL. The destruction of ISIL is a top national security priority. The attacks in Lebanon, France, and Egypt have shown that ISIL’s efforts aren’t limited by the borders of Syria and Iraq. As such, the Graham AUMF ensures that we can fight ISIL wherever, whenever, and however. • No expiration date. Artificial time limits and expiration dates serve to embolden the enemy and encourage them to wait out the United States. We will take as long as we need to destroy ISIL. • No prohibition on sending American forces on the ground to combat ISIL. ISIL cannot be destroyed by air power alone. It will require forces on the ground to destroy the Caliphate and liberate innocent civilians living under ISIL control. • No prohibitions on the ability of the United States to disrupt online terrorist recruitment activities, online terrorist propaganda, or terrorist communications. ISIL has proven to have a shrewd understanding and adaptation to the use of social media, the Internet, and online communication. The United States will bring the full force of our technological arsenal to bear in the fight against ISIL. “We must allow this President and every future President to do whatever is necessary to destroy ISIL before they hit us here at home,” said Graham. “This authorization mirrors the approach we took against al-Qaeda after 9/11.” #####
11.30.2015	In interviews from Erbil, Iraq earlier today, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) discussed his strategy to destroy ISIL and the threat posed to our own national security by radical Islam. Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, traveled to Baghdad and Erbil, Iraq with Senator John McCain (R-Arizona) to assess and evaluate the current failing strategy against ISIL. GRAHAM ON CURRENT STRATEGY AGAINST ISIL: “Our foreign policy is in free fall. Nobody is going to follow us until we change our strategy”. – WATCH/LISTEN: http://bit.ly/1NiCOlO “We don’t have enough forces on the ground to really deal with Mosul. Mosul is a very large city in the hands of ISIL. You can't fix Iraq without dealing with Syria. There is no credible ground component in Syria. So if you don’t get Syria right, you’re not going to fix Iraq, now Libya. The story that's not being talked about is Ramadi falls, take it away from ISIL, they pick up Gaddafi’s hometown in Libya. We need a regional strategy and we don't have one”. – WATCH/LISTEN: http://bit.ly/1lUoIky GRAHAM ON DESTROYING ISIL WITH REGIONAL COALITION: “I'm suggesting we need 10,000 American troops to help the Iraqis destroy ISIL in Iraq. We have 3,500. At this pace, ISIL will still be in Iraq. I'm suggesting that we create a regional army to go into Syria, because there's nobody left in Syria to destroy ISIL and if we don't destroy ISIL in Syria they're going to hit the American homeland.” – WATCH/LISTEN: http://bit.ly/1TnMvol “ISIL is a threat to the Sunni Arab kingdom and it’s a threat to Turkey and they have an interest in destroying ISIL. They have an interest in making sure Iran doesn't control Damascus. They want Assad out. So, I think a regional ground force is possible with American leadership. The good news is a regional ground force would be ninety percent from the region, ten percent from the West, because we don't need a large Western army. Let's put the region out front this time and make them pay for the war. But, without that, I don't see how we take Raqqa back. There's nobody left in Syria that can do the job in my view”. – WATCH/LISTEN: http://bit.ly/1PW79gE
11.16.2015	WASHINGTON - In light of the Paris attacks, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today called for a ‘timeout’ on bringing refugees from Syria into the United States. “The one thing I’ve learned from Paris is that we need to have a timeout on bringing refugees into this country until we have a system that we think will work. So I’m calling for a timeout on Syrian refugees.” -Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) Audio of Graham’s interview with Fox News Radio ‘John Gibson’ is available: https://youtu.be/aurvytCXffc?t=4m19s
11.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today following the decision made by President Obama to reject the Keystone XL pipeline. “The environmental left has taken over the White House. There is no logical reason not to build the Keystone XL pipeline. Keystone XL is a job creator. “It’s buying oil from a friend, not an enemy. If we don’t buy the oil from Canada, they will sell it to China. This is not an environmental issue. This is an issue of radical environmentalists taking over the White House destroying economic opportunity and energy independence for North America.” ###
10.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the news President Obama is willing to send up to fifty Special Operations Forces to Syria. “President Obama is putting fifty brave Americans at risk without a clear strategy of how to degrade and destroy ISIL. “ISIL is not going to be intimidated by this move. In fact, ISIL will see this as yet another sign of President Obama’s weakness. “ISIL is all-in for their horrific agenda and demented view of the world. Unfortunately, President Obama is not all in when it comes to degrading and destroying ISIL. Today’s announcement again reinforces that view.” #####
10.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement touting Chairman Trey Gowdy’s investigation into the attack on the U.S. diplomatic mission in Benghazi, Libya. Graham has championed the Select Committee on Benghazi's work and Chairman Gowdy’s pursuit to bring justice to the families of those killed in the attack. “Every American who believes we deserve the truth about what happened in Benghazi should be proud of the work by Trey Gowdy. His committee has uncovered facts that no one else has found. In fact, his work is making other investigations look incomplete and incompetent. “For the sake of the families of Americans who lost their lives in the Benghazi attacks, I deeply regret that he was not put in charge of this investigation even sooner. “I have complete confidence Trey Gowdy will not stop investigating until all the facts about what happened in Benghazi – before, during, and after the attacks – are known. “The attacks on Trey’s work are growing stronger and more intense. You know this means he is getting closer to the truth. For those who want to avoid responsibility for their actions regarding Benghazi, Trey Gowdy has become their worst nightmare.” #####
10.06.2015	
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) spoke in the Senate last night about the historic flooding in South Carolina. He made these statements. • “To the people without power, whose houses are under water, whose cars have been devastated, those who've lost loved ones, we're definitely thinking about you. We're pulling together in our state.” http://bit.ly/1JPUenT • “This is sort of the worst of nature coming our way but I think we met it with the best of human nature.” http://bit.ly/1jb3aPy • “We're not going to ask for a penny more than we need. This is not about fixing problems unrelated to this event. This is about appropriately dealing with this event and nothing more.” http://bit.ly/1MWyfjJ • “I cannot tell you from the Charleston shooting to this how tough it's been for our state. When it's all said and done we're going to be together and come out stronger. And to the families who are thinking their world has come to an end, God willing, it will get better. The water will pass and we'll start surveying the damage, and we'll help those who need help.” http://bit.ly/1L4lJMc • “To the people of my state, to the first responders, to all who have been involved in trying to take care of your fellow citizens, God bless you.” http://bit.ly/1OVwWEM ###### FULL TRANSCRIPT OF REMARKS: Thank you, Mr. President. I just returned from South Carolina. I'm sure many members of the body are watching this drama unfold on television. I've never seen anything like it. I was in the Charleston area over the weekend. 18 inches in about 24 hours. Columbia, South Carolina, is really under siege as a 1,000-year historic rain. I'm not a meteorologist but it seems everything bad that could happen did happen. All 46 counties received federal emergency declaration. There's been a verbal request for a major disaster declaration for 11 counties, 1,300 national guardsmen deployed, 7,000 more on stand-by. The state troopers, the entire trooper force is on the road. 1,250 South Carolina DOT maintenance employees working, 550 road closures, 150 bridge closures, 26,000 and climbing without power. 40,000 and climbing without water. Nine deaths and the economic damage we don't know yet. There will be an insurance component and there will be a disaster relief component. As we get through this and look at the damages, that comes later, and we will ask only that is what is responsible. We're not going to ask the federal government to do anything that's beyond the responsibility of the government and not turn this thing into a pile-on party. The bottom line is I really appreciate my colleagues coming up and offering their assistance and their prayers for the people of South Carolina, our governor, the entire infrastructure, the emergency management system in South Carolina has done a very good job. More is coming. The rain is about to depart the area, but we'll have runoff from the Upstate of South Carolina that will flow down to the coast and run right through the communities that have been hit the hardest, so there's a second wave of water coming. My sister lives in the Columbia area, and I can just tell you there are very few families in South Carolina not affected by this. Manning, South Carolina, is virtually under water. So, we're thinking about the people of South Carolina. It's what I've heard from all of my colleagues. Senator Schumer called, the Vice President called. I just appreciate all of your concern and your prayers. We will hopefully get this behind us soon in terms of the rainfall and start building up some levies and dams that are about to break. I worry about the bridges, damage to our bridges. I don't think we appreciate how extensive it is. This is sort of the worst of nature coming our way but I think we met it with the best of human nature. From what I can tell, people at home have really been working together trying to slug through this. I would echo what the governor said -- stay in your homes, it is so dangerous out there. Anybody who has to be rescued because they're out looking around or taking photos are draining resources from people under siege. On behalf of Tim Scott and myself, we're going to do whatever we can with our House delegation to make sure that our state is taken care of in an appropriate fashion. And hopefully by the end of this week we will begin to survey the damage. But unfortunately, there is more coming as the runoff from the Upstate makes its way to the coast. This was a, literally a perfect storm of things coming together to take water from a hurricane and create a river of rain. I've never seen anything like it and I've lived in the state all my life. To the people without power, whose houses are under water, whose cars have been devastated, those who've lost loved ones, we're definitely thinking about you. We're pulling together in our state. 2015 has been a miserable year for the state of South Carolina. Some of the worst things have happened, and we're still hanging in there. Everybody is clinging to each other in a very heartwarming way. I'm sure there will be some exceptions to that rule. Curfews are in place, but the vast majority of South Carolinians are rising to the occasion. I was talking to the governor last night and we cannot wait to get this incident behind us. I cannot tell you from the Charleston shooting to this how tough it's been for our state. When it's all said and done we're going to be together and come out stronger. And to the families who are thinking their world has come to an end, God willing, it will get better. The water will pass and we'll start surveying the damage, and we'll help those who need help. We're not going to ask for a penny more than we need. This is not about fixing problems unrelated to this event. This is about appropriately dealing with this event and nothing more. So I want to thank the President and the members of the body who have offered your prayers and wishes for the people of South Carolina. To the people of my state, to the first responders, to all who have been involved in trying to take care of your fellow citizens, God bless you. The governor and her team, I know you're working so hard. I would just like to end this with a request for prayers. Any money that people can send will be much appreciated because there are people today that have lost everything they worked for all of their life. It is days like this that makes you appreciate one another and there is a role for the government to play here. But at the end of the day it's going to be people helping people with the government providing some resources. But we'll have to help each other. There's no substitute for neighbor taking care of neighbor here.
10.01.2015	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the latest actions by Russia. "Putin, through his actions, is showing disdain for President Obama and American interests. The Russia-Assad-Iran alliance is a nightmare for the region, a recruiting opportunity for ISIL, and a slap in the face to the Obama Administration. It also means the war in Syria never ends, will create an even larger refugee crisis, and increases the likelihood terrorist safe havens in Syria become the launching pad for the next 9/11. "For the past seven years, President Obama's foreign policy has been an abysmal failure. As a result, opponents and adversaries of the United States continue to take advantage of his miscalculations and blunders." ###
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the address Pope Francis delivered to a Joint Session of Congress. “I was honored to be present for today’s historic address to Congress. Pope Francis delivered important messages about economic opportunity, justice, protecting life, and why we must be better stewards of God’s creation.”
09.24.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted to defund Planned Parenthood. The vote failed in the Senate 47-52 as 60 votes were needed to overcome a filibuster. “I wholly support the defunding of Planned Parenthood. I would never send a budget to Capitol Hill that contains one penny of funding for Planned Parenthood. I believe we can still maintain a robust commitment to providing access to important preventative medicine and prenatal services without funding Planned Parenthood.” CONGRESSIONAL ACTION ON PLANNED PARENTHOOD AND GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN: “We will fight to defund Planned Parenthood, but we do not have the votes to win the battle right now. Instead, we should set our sights on winning the war and that only comes about by electing a President and Congress committed to protecting life.” “President Obama is downright hostile to the cause of protecting life. And we do not currently have 290 members of the House of Representatives, along with 67 Senators, who will vote to override a presidential veto. “From past experiences, I know the media and many Americans will reflexively blame the Republican Party should a government shutdown occur. I fear a government shutdown will harm our ability to achieve our ultimate objective of defunding Planned Parenthood.” ####
09.23.2015	WASHINGTON - In a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing, Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) seeks answers from General David Petraeus on how to ultimately defeat and destroy radical Islam in the Middle East.
09.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Legislation introduced by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) that would ban abortions after 20 weeks failed to gain the necessary 60 vote super-majority to overcome a filibuster. The vote was 54-42. President Obama had already threatened to veto the Graham legislation should it reach his desk. “America is at her best when she’s standing up for the least among us,” said Graham. “Even though we were not successful, this votes marks an important milestone when it comes to protecting the unborn. We took the first vote in the Senate and were able to see where every Senator stands. Today, the battle begins working to bring more supporters to our cause. “There are only seven countries that allow wholesale abortions at the 20-week period including China and North Korea,” said Graham. “We should no longer be part of that club.” At the age of 20 weeks or five months post-fertilization, scientific evidence tells us an unborn child can feel pain. Pain medication is administered directly to the unborn child in second-trimester fetal surgery, in addition to anesthesia. The unborn child shows physical, chemical, brain and stress responses demonstrating pain at this stage of development. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is based on science, has overwhelming public support, and is necessary to protect unborn children from painful, and untimely deaths. “I view today’s vote as the start of a journey, much like the one we used to pass the Unborn Victims of Violence Act and the Partial Birth Abortion Ban into law,” concluded Graham. “The sooner this legislation becomes law, the better. We are on the right side of history.” #####
09.21.2015	
09.21.2015	WASHINGTON – Legislation introduced by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) that would ban abortions after 20 weeks is going to be debated and voted on in the United States Senate this week. The debate on S. 1553, The Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, will begin on Monday and a vote is expected Tuesday morning. President Obama has already threatened to veto the legislation should it reach his desk. “There are only seven countries that allow wholesale abortions at the 20-week period including China and North Korea,” said Graham. “It’s sad, but true, that the United States is currently a member of that shameful club. “This vote will mark the first time the Senate has been put on record about this important issue,” continued Graham. “I view this vote as the start of a journey, much like the one we used to pass the Unborn Victims of Violence Act and the Partial Birth Abortion Ban. We will take a vote, see where every Senator stands, and then go to work bringing more supporters to our cause. The sooner this legislation becomes law, the better.” At the age of 20 weeks or 5 months post-fertilization, scientific evidence tells us an unborn child can feel pain. Pain medication is administered directly to the unborn child in second-trimester fetal surgery, in addition to anesthesia. The unborn child shows physical, chemical, brain and stress responses demonstrating pain at this stage of development. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is based on science, has overwhelming public support, and is necessary to protect unborn children from painful and untimely deaths. “America is at her best when she’s standing up for the least among us,” concluded Graham. “We are on the right side of history.” #####
09.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the 52-foot Charleston Harbor Deepening Project has received the Chief’s Report from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. This is the final substantive approval required for the project to progress through construction. The report outlines the recommendation of deepening the Charleston harbor channel to 52 feet and entrance channel to 54 feet, as well as enlarging turning basins to accommodate for post-Panamax vessels. Graham said: “This is fantastic news for the Charleston Port and our state’s economy. Ensuring the Charleston Harbor deepening project remains on track has been and remains a top priority for me. We’ve come a long way in a very short amount of time. I’m proud of Jim Newsome, the Port leadership team and all the work we have done thus far, but I will not stop pushing until this project is completed. “With this latest development, we’ll now push Congress to provide us with the tools needed to finish the job. I realize that jobs, both today and in the future, are at stake with this project. Our economic future, and the livelihood of thousands of people in the Palmetto State depend on getting this project done. When it comes to deepening Charleston Harbor, failure is simply not an option.”
09.10.2015	
09.02.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today made this statement on President Obama securing at least 34 Senate votes in support of his nuclear deal with Iran. With 34 votes, President Obama will prevent any possibility of a veto override by Congress. Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has been one of the leading critics of the deal and warned of the dangers of a nuclear Iran. “Vote #34 represents a very good day for the Iranian regime. The Iranians have now secured enough votes in the Senate to ensure they have a pathway to a bomb, the missile to deliver it, and the money to pay for it. “The only reason the Ayatollah and his henchmen aren’t dancing in the streets of Tehran is they don’t believe in dancing.” #####
08.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has written to Secretary of State John Kerry requesting information on an Associated Press report showing that a secret ‘Side Agreement’ will allow Iran to use their own investigators to investigate a site it has been accused of using to develop nuclear arms. According to AP, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) staff will be reduced to monitoring Iranian personnel as they inspect the controversial Parchin site. IAEA inspectors will be barred from physically visiting the site and the agency won’t even get photo or video information from areas Iran says are off-limits because they have military significance. “Allowing the Iranians to inspect their own nuclear sites, particularly a notorious military site, is like allowing the inmates to run the jail,” said Graham. “The inspections won’t happen, can’t be trusted, and clearly, put America at risk. This revelation is yet another example of how this deal, negotiated by the Obama Administration, is a dangerous capitulation to the Iranian regime. It will ensure that, within a very short amount of time, Iran becomes a nuclear threshold state. “President Obama said, 'If Iran cheats, the world will know it,’” said Graham. “I respectfully ask, how exactly will the world know when Tehran cheats, if we are dependent on the Iranians to tell us?” In his letter, Graham reiterated to Secretary Kerry that he is prepared to push to cut off funding to the IAEA unless these ‘Side Agreements’ are provided to Congress. “When I coauthored the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 with Senators Corker, Menendez, and Cardin, we included a requirement to share any IAEA side agreements with Congress,” wrote Graham. “We included this language precisely because we feared a scenario under which the effectiveness of the entire deal was predicated on a weak or secret deal between the IAEA and the Iranians. “While the Administration has still failed to comply with this provision of the law, at the very least, today’s revelation only underscores the need for the IAEA to share with Congress the text of any and all side agreements with the Iranians,” said Graham. “I reiterate that I intend to condition and/or withhold voluntary contributions to the IAEA in fiscal year 2016 should they not be provided prior to the congressional debate next month.” Graham is the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, which oversees contributions to the IAEA. A copy of the letter can be found here and text of the letter is below. #### Dear Secretary Kerry: Following up on my letter of August 11, 2015, I wanted to bring to your attention an article that was published today by the Associated Press. In the article, it is reported that Iran will be allowed to “employ its own experts and equipment in the search for evidence for activities that it has consistently denied – trying to develop nuclear weapons.” The article goes on to discuss how International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) “staff will be reduced to monitoring Iranian personnel as these [sic] inspect the Parchin site… beyond being barred from physically visiting the site – the agency won’t even get photo or video information from areas Iran says are off-limits because they have military significance.” If accurate, these revelations expose yet another major shortcoming in the deal. When I coauthored the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 with Senators Corker, Menendez, and Cardin, we included a requirement to share any IAEA side agreements with Congress. We included this language precisely because we feared a scenario under which the effectiveness of the entire deal was predicated on a weak or secret deal between the IAEA and the Iranians. While the Administration has still failed to comply with this provision of the law, at the very least, today’s revelation only underscores the need for the IAEA to share with Congress the text of any and all side agreements with the Iranians. I reiterate that I intend to condition and/or withhold voluntary contributions to the IAEA in fiscal year 2016 should they not be provided prior to the congressional debate next month. I look forward to your response.
08.13.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has put the Obama Administration on notice that he will push to cut off United States contributions to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) unless the ‘side agreements’ made with Iran over its nuclear program are released to the Congress. In a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, Graham stressed the importance these side agreements have on the pending legislative action in Congress. “As an indication of how serious I view the provision of copies of these side agreements to our national security, I intend to condition and/or withhold voluntary contributions to the IAEA in fiscal year 2016 should they not be provided prior to the congressional debate next month,” wrote Graham. Graham is the Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, which oversees contributions to the IAEA. Graham was also one of the primary authors of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which required President Obama to submit any nuclear deal with Iran to the Congress for review. A copy of the letter can be found here and text of the letter is below. #### Mr. Secretary: As Chairman of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs with oversite of our contributions to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), I respectfully request the Administration to provide in a timely manner to the Congress any and all copies of side agreements between Iran and the IAEA associated with the Iran nuclear deal. Given anticipated legislative action on this controversial deal in the Senate next month, firsthand information on IAEA side agreements are vital to both the debate and decision making process for all Members – irrespective of their views of Iran or the merits of the deal. There is precedent for the IAEA to share side agreements between the Agency and the Iranian government. In 2007, the IAEA made the document, “Understandings of Islamic Republic of Iran and the IAEA on the Modalities of Resolution of the Outstanding Issues” public. Additionally, the 1974 text of the Agreement between Iran and the Agency for the Application of Safeguards in Connection with the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons is available for all to review on the IAEA website. As an indication of how serious I view the provision of copies of these side agreements to our national security, I intend to condition and/or withhold voluntary contributions to the IAEA in fiscal year 2016 should they not be provided prior to the congressional debate next month. You may recall that S. 1725 (the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, 2016) provides $88 million for voluntary contributions to the IAEA in title V under the heading “Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining and Related Programs”, a portion which supports IAEA Iran activities. I anticipate that at some point these funds will be under discussion as part of a continuing resolution or omnibus appropriations bill, and I will work with my colleagues in the Senate and House of Representatives to take appropriate action regarding IAEA voluntary contributions based on the provisions of these agreements. I encourage you to make this request a priority within the Administration and in dealings with the IAEA, and to raise the necessity of providing all such side agreements to the Congress in any upcoming IAEA Board of Governors meetings. I appreciate your considering my views, and I look forward to hearing from you on this matter.
08.05.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement today on President Obama’s speech regarding the Iranian Nuclear Agreement: “President Obama's speech today is just another example of his reliance on endless strawmen to divert attention from his failed policies. It is particularly galling to hear the President try to defend his nuclear agreement with Iran by claiming that its critics also supported the war in Iraq. Having presided over the collapse of our hard-won gains in Iraq, the rise of the most threatening terrorist army in the world, the most devastating civil war and humanitarian catastrophe in generations in Syria, the spread of conflict and radicalism across the Middle East and much of Africa, a failed reset with Russia, and escalating cyber-attacks and other acts of aggression for which our adversaries pay no price, the President should not throw stones from his glass house.” “In addition to jousting with strawmen, the President also repeated his reliance on false choices. No one believes that military force can and should solve all problems. No one believes that diplomacy, including diplomacy with adversaries, is tantamount to weakness. What we object to is the President's lack of realism -- his ideological belief that diplomacy is good and force is bad, which has repeatedly resulted either in failed deals or bad deals. The alternative to this deal was never war; it was greater pressure on Iran and insistence on a better agreement.” “President Obama’s deal with Iran empowers one of our chief antagonists and the world’s most radical Islamist regime with a pathway to the bomb, missiles to deliver it, money to pay for it, and the means to acquire a new military arsenal. Instead of dismantling Iran’s nuclear program, this agreement would lock it in place. Instead of weakening this radical regime, a regime with American blood on its hand, this agreement would make Iran stronger. Before the deal, Iran was able to destabilize Yemen, Iraq, Syria, and Lebanon. After this deal, Iran’s power in the region will only be enhanced as it ultimately becomes a member of the nuclear club. A more powerful Iran with a bomb in the Ayatollah’s hands is a direct threat to the United States and an existential threat to our allies in Israel.” “President Obama clearly does not understand the Middle East and has made one blunder after another. He was wrong when he ignored sound military advice to leave a residual force in Iraq. He was wrong when he turned down the advice of his national security team when they urged him to help Free Syrian Army fighters when it could have made a difference. He was wrong when he failed to enforce his own red lines against Bashar Assad. He was wrong when he declared ISIL a “Junior Varsity team." He was wrong when he built a presidential campaign around a message of “Bin Laden is dead and al Qaeda is decimated.” And he is wrong about this deal with Iran.” “Those of us who have warned President Obama about his past mistakes are warning him again about the consequences of this deal with Iran. We hope the American people realize this deal should be rejected and will weigh in to have their voice heard.” #####
07.29.2015	
07.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Turkey and the fight against ISIL. “Turkey’s decision to assist the fight against ISIL is a step in the right direction. The establishment of a humanitarian zone is consistent with what I have been advocating for in Syria for over three years. “However, if reports that Turkey has bombed Kurdish-held villages in Syria are true, the President’s feckless approach to fighting ISIL is again showing its consequences. One of my biggest fears is that the President’s mishandling of Syria would ignite regional tensions and expand the conflict. A conflict between Turkey and the Kurds only benefits ISIL and Assad and further plunges the region into chaos. This ultimately compromises our national security. “I urge the president to come up with a regional coordinated strategy that would decisively deal with both ISIL and Assad to stop the bloodletting in Syria. Our ineffective approach to Syria and Iraq continues to throw the region into chaos and is creating the perfect launching pad for an attack on the United States.” ####
07.24.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has pushed to the top of the Senate agenda an amendment to reauthorize the Export-Import (EX-IM) Bank of the United States for another four years. A vote on the amendment is expected in the coming days. The EX-IM Bank, which plays an instrumental role in helping American manufacturers sell American-made products overseas, saw its charter expire at the beginning of July. A message on the Bank website says, “Due to a lapse in EX-IM Bank’s authority, as of July 1, 2015, the Bank is unable to process applications or engage in new business or other prohibited activities.” (http://www.exim.gov/authority-has-lapsed/) “We cannot unilaterally disarm while competitor nations keep their banks open and operating,” said Graham. “As a matter of fact, China’s export credit agencies have financed more than the United States, Germany, Canada and the United Kingdom combined. Just one of China’s EX-IM Banks has authorized more financing in the last two years ($670 billion) than our EX-IM Bank has since its founding eight decades ago ($600 billion). “Would I like to live in a world where there were no EX-IM Banks?” questioned Graham. “Sure. But I refuse to live in a world where we close our EX-IM Bank and China keeps theirs open. I am not doing that. That is unilateral surrender.” Graham noted EX-IM is crucial to many of the top manufacturing companies in South Carolina and across the nation. In the Palmetto State, EX-IM financing is critical to Boeing’s 787 production facility in North Charleston and General Electric’s gas turbine production in Greenville. Approximately eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners that have been built in South Carolina are eligible for EX-IM financing. The facility employs more than 7,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs. “If our EX-IM Bank and its competitive financing go away permanently, the United States will lose market share and it will cost us jobs,” concluded Graham. “Other nations are cheering the ill-conceived decision to close the doors to EX-IM while they keep their export banks open for business.” Established in 1934, the Bank guarantees loans and credit to businesses otherwise unable to operate through private lenders. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank's transactions each year directly benefit small businesses, and the Bank supports more than 205,000 American jobs. In 2013, the Bank returned more than $1 billion to the United States Treasury. #####
07.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has joined U.S. Senator Joni Ernst (R-Iowa) and 47 Senators in a letter to Secretary Sylvia Burwell of the Department of Health and Human Services, requesting answers to the controversial video released by the Center for Medical Progress. The disturbing video shows senior Planned Parenthood Federation of America executives describing, in horrific detail, how its organization takes part in the harvesting of the organs of unborn babies. The letter asks Secretary Burwell not to impede any investigations into this matter. “The footage raises a number of questions about the practices of the organization, including whether they are in compliance with federal laws regulating both the use of fetal tissue and partial-birth abortions,” wrote Graham. “The footage also prompts important policy questions surrounding the issue of abortions permitted so late in pregnancy – sometimes even later than five months – that an unborn baby’s organs can be identified and harvested.” Graham is the lead sponsor in the Senate of the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act which would limit abortions after 20 weeks post fertilization. ###### ***Find full text of the letter here.
07.21.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to the comments President Obama made in Pittsburgh at the VFW convention about his efforts to destroy ISIL. President Obama said: “What we can do and what we are doing is to pound ISIL from the air…but have no doubt we will degrade and ultimately destroy this barbaric terrorist organization.” Graham responded: “President Obama’s remarks about the status of his efforts to destroy and degrade ISIL are not grounded in reality. The fact is we do not have a strategy to deal with ISIL’s safe havens in Syria and the aggressive air campaign described by the President will never completely destroy the terrorist group. “While the president touts imaginary gains against ISIL and other terrorist organizations, the threats against our country continue to grow. It’s past time President Obama abandon his failed strategy and go on the offensive. The stronger we allow ISIL to become over there, the more likely we are to get hit here at home. “We need more American ground capacity in Iraq to ensure success by the Iraqi security forces. We also must work with regional partners to form a regional army to deal with ISIL’s safe havens in Syria. This too will require limited U.S. military participation. “The president’s declared statement that ‘Assad must go’ has proven to be nothing more than rhetoric. And until Assad leaves, the Syrian conflict will only grow. But unfortunately for our national security and the region as a whole, at this rate Assad will be in power after President Obama leaves office.” #####
07.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the United Nations Security Council’s approval of the nuclear deal with Iran. “The Iranian deal may be good enough for the United Nations but it's a terrible deal for the United States. Taking it to the UN before Congress reviews it is an affront to the American people and further evidence of a weak president trying to sell a bad deal. Congress is not bound by today’s UN decision. I look forward to a full and complete debate in the coming weeks.” ####
07.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Bob Menendez (R-New Jersey) today introduced the 2015 North Korea Sanctions Act that would strengthen and expand sanctions against the regime in North Korea and those who might wish to assist them. “North Korea is a reckless, provocative regime that has the capacity to destabilize the world even more than they’re doing today,” said Sen. Graham. “Their capacity and desire to create upheaval, by spreading dangerous weapons throughout the world, must result in a higher price to be paid." “The malicious actions and relentless pursuit of nuclear weaponry by North Korea must be prevented at every turn,” said Sen. Menendez. “This bipartisan legislation will strengthen the hand of the Administration to continue holding back the threat posed by the terrible regime in North Korea. We must utilize every tool at our disposal to prevent support from reaching the dictatorial regime and limit the ability of its leaders to enjoy any benefit of their brutal repression.” The Senators introduced the bill following repeated violations of commitments by North Korea to end and dismantle its nuclear weapons development program and the perpetual brutal oppression on the vast majority of the North Korean people. Both Senators note that North Korea remains a significant threat to regional and global stability.The 2015 North Korea Sanctions Act: · Expands the ability of the Administration to sanction property and seize funds of the people or organizations that provide support to the regime. · Expands the ability of the Administration to sanction support for cyber attacks or cyber vandalism. · Enhances the ability of humanitarian organizations to provide life-saving assistance to reduce the suffering of the North Korean people. Full text of the 2015 North Korea Sanctions Act can be seen here. ####
07.09.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the South Carolina Legislature’s vote in favor of removing the Confederate Battle Flag from Statehouse grounds. “This is a historic day in South Carolina. I want to congratulate the leadership and members of the South Carolina State Legislature for voting to remove the Confederate Battle Flag from Statehouse grounds and put it in a museum. After the horrific tragedy in Charleston, our state could have gone down one of two paths – division or reconciliation. I am thankful we chose the path of reconciliation. “To the families of the Charleston Nine, you are the true heroes of this historic moment in South Carolina. To all the members of the state legislature and Governor Haley, I say well done.” #####
07.07.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Martin Dempsey about the Obama Administration’s counter-ISIL strategy during a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing. “Terrorist groups like ISIL are rich and growing while President Obama runs out the clock on his time in office,” said Graham. “President Obama states ISIS must now be turned back and Syria’s Bashar al Assad must go. But he has no strategy for achieving these goals. His recent announcement of additional troops amounts to nothing more than duct tape, a desperate attempt to hold together a crumbling Middle East just long enough for his successor to step in.” WATCH/LISTEN: GRAHAM: “General Dempsey, would you agree that there are more terrorist organizations with more safe havens, with more weapons, with more capability, with more men to strike the homeland than any time since 9/11?”GENERAL DEMPSEY: “Yes.”http://bit.ly/1JMvumc GRAHAM: “Do you believe that ISIL is expanding in other countries as we speak?”GENERAL DEMPSEY: “Yes.”http://bit.ly/1fkTYGu GRAHAM: “What’s more likely – President Obama leaves office in 2017 or Assad goes first?”SECRETARY CARTER: “Well, I certainly hope it’s Assad.”http://bit.ly/1JMxDOM #####
07.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the South Carolina Senate’s 37-3 vote to remove the Confederate Battle Flag from State House grounds. The South Carolina House of Representatives will now take up the bill. “The overwhelming bipartisan vote by the South Carolina State Senate was the right and necessary thing to do for the future of our state. The Senate’s decision will allow us to go forward as a state more united and with the realization that all of us must come together after the horrific tragedy in Charleston. The next step is for the South Carolina House of Representatives to act, and I believe they will act in a similarly responsible manner.” #####
07.01.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded news that the Charleston Port Harbor Post-45 Deepening Project will receive $1.303 million in Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED) funding from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ work plan allocations for Fiscal Year 2015. This allocation of funds will allow the preconstruction phase of the project to begin immediately. Last week, the Army Corps’ Civil Works Review Board (CWRB) unanimously approved the port deepening project, keeping the project on schedule. This vote was a necessary condition for receiving today’s allocation and will allow the Port to be eligible for the remainder of PED funding in Fiscal Year 2016 and be ready for full construction dollars in Fiscal Year 2017. “Today’s $1.3 million allocation is fantastic news for the Port of Charleston and for expediting the deepening project,” said Graham. “I again applaud the Army Corps of Engineers for amending its FY 2015 work plan to include funding for the Port. This money is yet another sign of the Port’s value to the country as a whole and a welcome step toward ensuring construction and eventual completion.” Graham is a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee and serves on the Energy and Water Subcommittee. He was an early and ardent advocate for deepening Charleston Harbor and continues the fight to secure federal authorization and funding for the project. #####
06.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement today on nuclear negotiations with Iran: “Yesterday, an unnamed senior administration official told reporters that the United States would not insist upon access to Iranian military sites in nuclear negotiations with Iran ‘because the United States of America wouldn't allow anybody to get into every military site, so that's not appropriate.’ “With the Iranian nuclear negotiations in a critical phase, this statement should alarm us all. There is no place in this negotiation for moral equivalence. That thinking was wrong in the Cold War, and it is wrong today. Iran is not like any other nation, least of all the United States. Iran has a proven record of cheating on its nuclear program. And it continues to be the leading state sponsor or terrorism while expanding its malign activities in the Middle East, as evidenced in Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, and Yemen. Iran must be held to different, more rigorous standards. “Preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon requires a complete and accurate accounting of Iranian’s nuclear program, including its possible military dimensions, as well as effective international monitoring of Iranian personnel, sites, equipment, and materials involved in its nuclear activities. Without access to this information, it would be impossible to monitor and verify a nuclear agreement with Iran. President Obama appeared to recognize this reality today when he said that ‘if the inspections regime is inadequate, then we’re not going to get a deal.’ The question is whether he will actually enforce this red line.” ####
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said the Obama Administration should suspend nuclear negotiations unless Iran repudiates provocative statements and actions taken this week regarding their nuclear program. Graham noted the recent actions include: • This week the Supreme Leader of Iran, Ayatollah Khamenei, said on state-run Iranian television “all economic, financial and banking sanctions, implemented either by the United Nations Security Council, the United States Congress or the Administration, must be lifted immediately when the deal is signed.” Graham supports a gradual, not immediate, relaxation of sanctions to ensure Iranian compliance with any agreement. • The Iranian Parliament and the Guardian Council earlier this week approved legislation that bars international inspectors from access to Iranian military sites as part of any nuclear deal. Graham has pushed for a complete accounting of past Iranian work on nuclear weapons to ensure the potential military dimensions of the program are understood and can be monitored to ensure compliance. “Secretary Kerry, now is the time for you and President Obama to send a clear message to the Iranians,” said Graham. “Repudiate these two statements or we will not negotiate any further.” http://bit.ly/1fG8Lvi “How can you lift sanctions and go forward and give them money until you know exactly what they’ve been up to in the past?” questioned Graham. http://bit.ly/1fG8Sa9 “God help us all if we enter into a deal with this regime that’s not sound, with every ‘I’ dotted and every ‘T’ crossed because the Iranians have been cheating, lying about their nuclear ambitions for well over a decade. And at the end of the day, you can’t trust the Iranians.” http://bit.ly/1KdcMTf ##### NOTE: After the floor speech, Graham also sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry detailing his concerns (here).
06.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded news that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ Civil Works Review Board (CWRB) unanimously approved the Charleston Harbor Post-45 Deepening Project by a vote of 5-0. The vote advances the project one-step closer to construction and sets in motion the completion of the Chief of Engineers report by September 2015, which is needed to proceed to actual construction. It will also allow the Port to be eligible for Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED) funding from the federal government in Fiscal Year 2016. “The Port of Charleston is one major step closer to construction.” said Graham. “I applaud the Army Corps for voting to approve the project. I also appreciate the Corps for inviting me to take part in today’s meeting to advocate for Charleston Harbor deepening. Today’s vote highlights the value of the port to the country as a whole and marks an all-important step toward ensuring construction and eventual completion. “Today’s accomplishment wouldn’t have been possible without the leadership of our State’s Ports Authority and state legislature. In particular, I appreciate Senator Larry Grooms for his important testimony before the board.” Graham is a member of both the Senate Appropriations Committee and Energy and Water subcommittee. He was an early and ardent advocate for deepening Charleston Harbor and has fought repeatedly to secure federal authorization and funding for the project. #####
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Dianne Feinstein (D-California), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), Dan Coats (R-Indiana), and Thom Tillis (R-North Carolina) today introduced their bipartisan legislation, Restoration of America's Wire Act, which restores the long-standing interpretation of the Wire Act. The senators noted on December 23, 2011, the Department of Justice (DOJ) published an opinion that reversed the long-standing interpretation that the Wire Act banned all forms of Internet gambling. DOJ determined the Wire Act only banned online sports betting. This decision opened the door to online gambling in states which previously had not allowed some forms of gaming. In the aftermath three states are currently offering some type of online gaming, and up to ten additional states are currently considering doing the same. Courts have split on the legality of DOJ’s ruling — the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals has said the Wire Act only applies to sports betting while district level courts have said the Wire Act applies to all online gambling. The issue has not yet been before the Supreme Court. “In 1999, South Carolina outlawed video poker and removed over 33,000 video poker machines from within its borders,” said Senator Graham, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “Now, because of this decision by the Obama Administration, virtually any cell phone or computer in South Carolina could become a video poker machine. A major rewrite of a long-standing federal law like this should be made by the people’s elected representatives in Congress and signed into law by the president, not done administratively.” “Internet gambling is very troubling—many online gambling sites don’t screen for underage gamblers and do nothing to prevent money laundering, fraud or other criminal acts,” said Senator Feinstein. “Gambling sites are easily accessible and I believe Congress has a responsibility to prevent abuses from occurring. That’s why I support the Restoration of America’s Wire Act, which would prohibit nearly all forms of Internet gambling.” "With the stroke of a pen, the Justice Department in 2011 reversed decades of interpretation of the Wire Act - going around Congress and defying the plain text of the law. Since then, the Internet has become the ‘Wild West' of gambling, which presents a significant problem for law enforcement when it comes to shutting down illegal activity related to online gaming," said Senator Ayotte, who worked extensively on gambling issues during her time as New Hampshire's Attorney General. "This legislation restores the Wire Act so that there is authority to address crime that occurs with regard to Internet gambling and preserves the ability of traditional retail lottery sales by brick and mortar stores.” “I am pleased to co-sponsor this bipartisan legislation that restores a law to its true, original interpretation,” said Senator Tillis. “Not only does this bill reverse the Department of Justice’s poor interpretation of the Wire Act¸ it includes a provision that ensures North Carolina’s education lottery will continue to operate, securing future funding for our children.” “Expanded gambling presents many challenges, especially on the Internet where safeguards to protect people from fraud and addiction are harder to enforce,” said Senator Rubio. “In 2011, the Obama-Holder Justice Department completely bypassed Congress and unilaterally decided to re-interpret the law to open the door to a widespread expansion of online gambling. Congress should restore existing prohibitions on Internet gambling before beginning a public debate about next steps.” “I join with Senator Graham on this important legislation to ensure the Department of Justice can no longer reinterpret existing law to allow online gambling,” said Senator Coats. “Appropriate regulation should remain in place to protect American families from money laundering, addictive wagering and universally accessible gambling with little screening or accountability.” The Restoration of America’s Wire Act: • Returns the Wire Act to where it was in 2011 before the Department of Justice reinterpreted the long-standing statute; • Traditional, retail store lottery sales will not be affected, and • Gaming establishments, in states where gaming was legal prior to 2011, will not be affected. ####
06.22.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today urged that the Confederate Battle Flag be removed from the South Carolina State House grounds. “In the worst of tragedies, we have seen the best of South Carolina. Today, I am urging that the Confederate Battle Flag be removed from statehouse grounds to an appropriate location. “After the tragic, hate-filled shooting in Charleston, it is only appropriate that we deal once and for all with the issue of the flag. “The love and forgiveness displayed by victims of this horrific, racially motivated shooting, along with all the people of Charleston, is an example to us all. The victims’ families and the parishioners of the Mother Emanuel AME Church reflect everything good about the Christian religion and the people of South Carolina. “I hope that, by removing the flag, we can take another step towards healing and recognition – and a sign that South Carolina is moving forward.” ####
06.18.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the horrific shooting at Emanuel African Methodist Episcopal (AME) Church in Charleston. “Our prayers are with the families of the victims and the people of Charleston. We are all heartbroken by this tragedy. “To the families of the victims, please know that you are being prayed for and loved by so many in the community and across the nation. I pray that God will provide you healing in the coming days. “There are bad people in this world who are motivated by hate. Every decent person has been victimized by the hateful, callous disregard for human life shown by the individual who perpetrated these horrible acts. “Our sense of security and well-being has been robbed and shaken.” ####
06.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his vote against the McCain-Feinstein Amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act. The measure passed by a vote of 78-21. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and has more than 30 years of experience in military law as a Judge Advocate in the Air Force. Graham said: “My position on these issues has long been clear, I oppose torture and have led the fight against interrogation practices which do not live up to our values. However, I do not believe it is wise to have the Army Field Manual serve as the sole interrogation program available to our nation. “In the War on Terror it is imperative we have interrogation techniques that are lawful, classified and beyond the Army Field Manual. High Value Targets (HVTs) possess valuable intelligence and we should not limit ourselves to the Army Field Manual which is published online and was never meant to be the exhaustive, exclusive system governing interrogation. The Army Field Manual was written for our uniform services to make sure they were in compliance with the Geneva Conventions and the Law of War. “Finally, I share the amendments’ supporters goal of requiring humane treatment of enemy combatants in prohibiting torture, but this amendment went beyond that objective.” ##### BACKGROUND:2007: Graham Opposes Effort to Apply Army Field Manual to CIAhttp://1.usa.gov/1MZGxXu
06.11.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was joined by pro-life and pro-family leaders today in introducing the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act in the United States Senate. Graham said: “There are only seven countries that allow wholesale abortions at the 20-week period including China and North Korea. The United States should not be in that club. “I don’t believe abortion, five months into pregnancy, makes us a better nation. I look forward to leading this long-overdue effort and pushing for a roll call vote in the Senate. “Today is the start of a journey, much like the one we used to pass the Unborn Victims of Violence Act and the Partial Birth Abortion Ban. I have no doubt the legislation will one day be passed by Congress and signed into law. “America is at her best when she’s standing up for the least among us and the sooner we pass this legislation into law, the better. We are on the right side of history.” ##### • At the age of 20 weeks post fertilization, scientific evidence tells us an unborn child can feel pain. Pain medication is administered directly to the unborn child in second-trimester fetal surgery, in addition to anesthesia. The unborn child shows physical, chemical, brain and stress responses demonstrating pain at this stage of development. • The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is based in science, has overwhelming public support, and is necessary to protect unborn children from painful and untimely deaths. • Companion legislation passed the U.S. House of Representatives in May by a vote of 242-184. BACKGROUNDER: PAIN-CAPABLE UNBORN CHILD PROTECTION ACT At the age of 20 weeks post fertilization, scientific evidence tells us an unborn child can feel pain. Pain medication is administered directly to the unborn child in second-trimester fetal surgery, in addition to anesthesia. The unborn child shows physical, chemical, brain and stress responses demonstrating pain at this stage of development. The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is based in science, has overwhelming public support, and is necessary to protect unborn children from painful and untimely deaths. Summary of Provisions: • The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act would make it illegal for any person to perform, or attempt to perform, an abortion without first making a determination of the probable post-fertilization age of the unborn child. • If the post-fertilization age of the unborn child is determined to be 20 weeks or greater, an abortion shall not be performed, unless – o It is necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman; o The pregnancy is a result of rape and the woman has received medical treatment or counseling at least 48 hours prior to the abortion; or if she chooses to do so, has made a report to law enforcement; or o The pregnancy is a result of rape or incest against a minor and the abuse is reported to either social services or law enforcement. • In the case of the exceptions – o the abortion may only proceed in a manner that provides the best opportunity for the unborn child to survive unless that would pose a greater risk of death or serious bodily injury to the pregnant woman; and o the abortion provider must receive informed consent from the pregnant woman, informing her of the child’s age, a description of the law, and the woman’s rights under the law. • A woman on whom an abortion was performed in violation of this Act may bring a civil action against the abortion provider in court to recover damages. • The abortion doctors are required to submit annual data to the National Center for Health and Statistics providing statistical information about abortions carried out after 20 weeks post-fertilization age. • The criminal punishment for a violation of this Act is imprisonment of up to five years, fines, or both. • The Act makes clear that a woman who receives an illegal abortion in violation of this act may not be prosecuted. #####
06.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate vote to end debate on reauthorization of the Export-Import (EX-IM) Bank. The vote to end debate was defeated 31-65. The roll call vote, to table an amendment to reauthorize the EX-IM Bank, was seen as a test of strength in the Senate for the pro-bank reauthorization forces. “This was an important vote for the EX-IM Bank and South Carolina’s manufacturing economy. This is a critical issue for companies like Boeing in North Charleston, General Electric in Greenville, and a host of other manufacturers throughout our state. “I’m very pleased we were able to muster 65 votes in support of EX-IM Bank. This shows there is an overwhelming bipartisan majority for reauthorization. It also shows the Senate opposes unilaterally disarming and allowing China and other nations to gain yet another unfair competitive advantage over American manufacturers. “I look forward to continuing to push forward on reauthorization of the EX-IM Bank. We must soon get legislation reauthorizing the bank to the president’s desk for signature into law. American jobs are on the line.” #####
06.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to President Obama saying, “we don’t yet have a complete strategy” to deal with ISIL. Graham said: “The threat posed by ISIL is growing exponentially, and President Obama’s lack of a strategy is Commander-in-Chief malpractice. “Radical Islam, in its most vicious form, is gathering momentum. They have more safe havens, more capabilities, more money, and more weapons than at any time since 9/11. “Today, they are large, rich, and entrenched. We must make them small, poor, and on the run. “It’s long past time we upped our game to confront this dangerous and growing threat to the American homeland.” #####
06.04.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded news that the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has officially set June 25 as the date the Civil Works Review Board (CWRB) will review the final feasibility study and issue its recommendation on the Charleston Harbor Post-45 Deepening Project. “This is great news for the Port of Charleston and for keeping the deepening project on track. In football terms—we’ve moved the ball down the field and are now in the red zone.” said Graham. “The port is invaluable to the state of South Carolina and the country as a whole. This announcement from the Corps is another crucial step forward in helping us secure funding and advance to construction.” Upon conclusion of its review, the CWRB will issue a Chief of Engineers report which is needed to proceed to the next phase of the project – actual construction. The June 25 date is important because it ensures the final ‘Chief’s report’ is on schedule to be completed by September 2015. This will allow the Port to be eligible for Preconstruction Engineering and Design (PED) funding from the federal government in Fiscal Year 2016. Graham is a member of both the Senate Appropriations Committee and Energy and Water Subcommittee. He was an early and ardent advocate for deepening Charleston Harbor and has fought repeatedly to secure federal authorization and funding for the project. #####
05.28.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is retiring after more than three decades of service to the United States Air Force. “I’ll turn 60 this summer which is the mandatory retirement age for the Air Force Reserves,” said Graham, who holds the rank of Colonel in the United States Air Force Reserves and is assigned as Senior Individual Mobilization Augmentee to The Judge Advocate General. “Although I would cherish the opportunity to continue to serve, I know that the time has come for me to end my service and transfer to the retired reserves.” “It’s been one of the great honors of my life to serve in the Air Force in some capacity for more than three decades,” continued Graham, who just completed another short tour of duty in Afghanistan over the Memorial Day recess. “The Air Force has been one of the best things that has ever happened to me. It identified and developed my talent, and helped me become useful to my country. It offered me adventure and showed me the world. It gave me a purpose bigger than myself. It put me in the company of patriots. It’s been almost like family to me. I’m going to miss it an awful lot, and I wouldn’t leave if they weren’t making me.” Graham compiled a long and distinguished career in the Air Force. He served on active duty for six and a half years (1982-1988), including four years in Europe. Graham also served in the South Carolina Air National Guard (1989-1995) before joining the U.S. Air Force Reserves (1995-present). Graham first rose to prominence when he uncovered and exposed major problems with the Air Force drug testing procedures at Brooks Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas. The mishandling of samples had led to false positives and the dismissal from the Air Force of service members who had not used drugs. His work was later showcased in a 1984 60 Minutes piece and he was also awarded The Air Force Commendation Medal for his work in uncovering problems with the program. “Of all the Area Defense Counsel within the USAF Judiciary, Captain Graham deserves recognition as having made the most significant, overwhelming and positive impact upon the administrative and judicial due process entitlements afforded to Air Force military members,” wrote Lt. Colonel Robert E. Reed of the US Air Force of Graham in February 1984. “He coupled tireless efforts and unparalleled knowledge while investigating and litigating the various procedures and scientific methodologies involved in the DOD Drug Urinalysis Program. The fruits of his labor caught the attention of officials within the highest echelons of the Department of Defense, Air Force and the Judge Advocate General.” From 1984-1988, Graham was assigned overseas and served at Rhein-Main Air Force Base in Germany. “During this period, Captain Graham’s professional skill and unrivaled ability to turn conflict and friction into agreement and cooperation resulted in major contributions to the state of discipline in the United States Air Forces in Europe,” according to the citation accompanying the Meritorious Service Medal awarded to Graham. “The singularly distinctive accomplishments of Captain Graham while serving his country reflect great credit upon himself and the United States Air Force.” In 1989, Graham joined and served in the South Carolina Air National Guard. During the first Gulf War in the early 90's, Graham was called to active duty and served state-side at McEntire Air National Guard Base as Staff Judge Advocate where he prepared members for deployment to the Gulf region. “Major Graham is truly an outstanding officer and career professional,” wrote Colonel Jerry H. Risher, of the South Carolina Air National Guard (SCANG) in Graham’s 1992 performance report. “His untiring efforts during the Desert Storm mobilization provided expert advice and guidance on legal affairs for approximately 800 personnel. His exceptional ability and energetic approach to accomplish each task inspires all who work with him.” As senator, Graham continued to serve in uniform. During congressional and holiday breaks, Graham often pulled short-term reserve duty in Iraq and Afghanistan where he worked on Rule of Law issues. Last summer while serving another stint on reserve duty in Afghanistan, Graham was presented with the Bronze Star Medal for his “exceptionally meritorious service.” The commendation covered the period of August 2009 to July 2014 for his service as Senior Legal Advisor during Operation Enduring Freedom. According to the commendation, “During his active duty training periods, he provided expert advice and a long term perspective about rule of law development and detention operations. He participated in 60 missions in a combat environment advising six general and flag officers during engagements with key members of the Afghan Criminal Justice Sector. ….Colonel Graham’s distinctive accomplishments are in keeping with the highest honors and traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, combined Joint Interagency Task Force 435, and the United States Air Force.” #####
05.21.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was pleased with the agreement reached in the Senate that will allow the body to vote on reauthorization of the Export-Import (EXIM) Bank. “I’ve never felt better about the opportunity to reauthorize EXIM Bank than I do today,” said Graham. “I want to thank Majority Leader McConnell and my Senate colleagues for working together to ensure a vote on the bank’s reauthorization in June before its charter expires. “However, the most important aspect of the agreement is we will also have the opportunity to vote on EXIM reauthorization attached to the Highway Trust Fund reauthorization,” said Graham. “I’m confident the combination of these two votes will demonstrate strong bipartisan support for the bank and will ultimately lead to its reauthorization.” Graham noted EXIM is crucial to many of the top manufacturing companies in South Carolina, including Boeing’s 787 production in North Charleston and General Electric’s gas turbine production in Greenville. Approximately eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners that have been built in South Carolina are eligible for EXIM financing. The facility employs more than 7,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs. “I commend Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott for their tireless efforts to support United States' manufacturers by working to reauthorize the U.S. Export Import Bank,” said Beverly Wyse, Boeing South Carolina vice president and general manager. “Our senators realize how critical the Export Import Bank is to South Carolina jobs—because of the Ex-Im Bank we are able to build airplanes in South Carolina to sell to customers all over the world. Jobs and economic development in South Carolina should be a top priority for all our elected officials. I thank Senators Graham and Scott for looking beyond Washington politics and doing what is right for the people of their state.” “Senator Graham really went to bat for South Carolina manufacturers to secure a path forward on Export Import Bank reauthorization,” said Shane Long, Greenville Gas Turbine Plant Manager for General Electric (GE) Power and Water. “This Bank is a critical tool in allowing GE to win against global competitors. His commitment to US manufacturers is critical to the 3500 jobs at the Greenville and Piedmont GE facilities and the thousands of other workers who rely on exports in this state.‎” “The biggest beneficiary of closing down the Bank will be China. If EXIM and its competitive financing go away, the United States will lose the market share we have today,” said Graham. “I’m not willing to unilaterally disarm when all of our competitors have EXIM Banks. As a matter of fact, China's EXIM Bank is bigger than the banks of the United States, France, England, and Germany combined.” “Would I like to live in a world where there were no EXIM Banks?” questioned Graham. “Sure. But the world I refuse to live in is one where we shut our EXIM Bank down and China keeps theirs open. I am not doing that. That is unilateral surrender.” Established in 1934, the Bank guarantees loans and credit to businesses otherwise unable to operate through private lenders. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank's transactions each year directly benefit small businesses, and the Bank supports more than 205,000 American jobs. In 2013, the Bank returned more than $1 billion to the United States Treasury. #####
05.20.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) took to the Senate floor last night to demand a vote on reauthorization of the Export-Import (EX-IM) Bank before it expires on June 30th. The Bank is crucial to many of the top manufacturing companies in South Carolina, including Boeing’s 787 production in North Charleston and General Electric’s gas turbine production in Greenville. Approximately eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners that have been built in South Carolina are eligible for EX-IM financing. The facility employs more than 7,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs. Established in 1934, the Bank guarantees loans and credit to businesses otherwise unable to operate through private lenders. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank's transactions each year directly benefit small businesses, and the Bank supports more than 205,000 American jobs. In 2013, the Bank returned more than $1 billion to the United States Treasury. “Here is what I am worried about: If our Bank expires, then the market share we have today because we have competitive financing goes away, and the biggest beneficiary of closing down the Bank will be China. I’m not going to subject American manufacturers to trying to sell their products overseas without EXIM financing while all their competitors have an EXIM bank. As a matter of fact, China's bank is bigger than the banks of the United States, France, England, and Germany combined.” http://bit.ly/1LlKftI “To the people who are trying to make this the scalp for conservatism, I think you’ve lost your way. This Bank makes money for the taxpayers. This Bank doesn't lose money. This Bank allows American manufacturers who are doing business in the developing world to have a competitive foothold against their competitors in China and throughout Europe who have access to EXIM financing. All we are talking about is an American-made product sold in the developing world where you cannot get traditional financing.” http://bit.ly/1PWJRT6 “The EXIM Bank has been around for decades. Ronald Reagan was for the EXIM Bank. The EXIM Bank is directly responsible for helping to sell Boeing aircraft made in South Carolina. Seventy percent of the production in South Carolina is eligible for EXIM financing. There are thousands of small businesses which benefit from manufactured products sold in the developing world through EXIM financing.” http://bit.ly/1Sdirwe “Would I like to live in a world where there were no EXIM Banks? Sure. But the world I am not going to live in is where we shut our EXIM Bank down and China keeps theirs open. I am not doing that. That is not trade. That is just idiotic. That is unilateral surrender.” http://bit.ly/1Fo7Vf1 “Come to South Carolina and tell the people at Boeing and all of their suppliers – and go to the Greenville GE plant that hires thousands of South Carolinians and all of their small business suppliers – why it is a good idea for America to shut down a bank that makes money for the taxpayers that allows us to be competitive. Tell them how you think that is a good way to grow our economy. Tell those people who have good jobs in South Carolina – and who will surely lose market share because we closed our Bank down – how proud they should be of your ideological purity.” http://bit.ly/1c4Y0Ak “You will not be able to shut this Bank down without a vote. If you feel that good about your position, let's have a vote on the floor of the Senate and on the floor of the House. The one thing we will not do is let the Bank die without a debate and a vote, and that debate and vote must come before June 30 because the damage will have been done.” http://bit.ly/1SdiKau “I will not sit on the sidelines and watch jobs in my State be lost because of some ideological crusade, the biggest beneficiaries of which, in my view, would be China and our European competitors. If you really do care about China's effect in the world marketplace, shutting the Ex-Im Bank down in America and allowing China to keep theirs open is a deathblow to American manufacturers that sell in the developing world.” http://bit.ly/1Gpua6e COMPLETE VIDEO AVAILABLE: http://bit.ly/1efFl6x ####
05.15.2015	WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has signed onto legislation to help fight synthetic drugs. The Synthetic Abuse and Labeling of Toxic Substances (SALTS) Act would make it easier to prosecute the sale and distribution of new synthetic drugs that are “analogues” – or substantially similar to current illegal drugs. “Synthetic drugs are illegal and dangerous,” said Graham. “But because of the wording in the statute, it is easy for people to get around the law and continue to sell these harmful substances. Our bill will give law enforcement the flexibility it needs to make sure individuals who sell these drugs can’t skirt the law by changing a label.” Current law provides the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) with a mechanism to prosecute the sale and distribution of analogue drugs. However, the law specifically says that an analogue drug does not include any substance “not intended for human consumption.” This makes the prosecution of offenders difficult as synthetic drugs often explicitly state that they are “not intended for human consumption.” This bill amends the Controlled Substances Act to require consideration of a number of factors when determining whether a controlled substance analogue was intended for human consumption, including the marketing, advertising, and labeling of a substance, and its known use. The bill also says that the existence of evidence that a substance was not marketed, advertised, or labeled for human consumption, should not stop prosecutors from being able to establish based on all the evidence that the substance was in fact intended for human consumption. The bipartisan legislation is also supported by Senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minnesota) and Dianne Feinstein (D-California). #####
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded the House of Representatives for passing the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which requires President Obama to submit any deal with Iran regarding its nuclear program to the Congress for review. Graham was one of the original authors of the legislation. Last week it passed the Senate 98-1 and today passed the House of Representatives 400-25. The legislation will now be sent to President Obama who has reluctantly said he will sign it into law. “As one of the primary authors of this legislation, I’m very proud of the House of Representatives for passing the important legislation,” said Graham. “Iran cannot be trusted. This legislation ensures the American people will have the opportunity to understand the details of any deal that may be entered into with the Iranians regarding their nuclear program. "The American people, and their elected representatives, will be able to look at the content of the agreement, debate the consequences, and vote as to whether or not it's a good deal for the United States. I believe any deal should be verifiable and include conditions to ensure Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon. A good deal with Iran would be a blessing while a bad deal would be a nightmare. I cannot think of a worse scenario for our national security than a bad deal with Iran.” ##### Republican Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee on Graham’s work on the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act: “I want to thank Senator Graham for his pushing to make sure that we got to this point. There’s no question and look you have been on this for months. You have pursued this. You have sold this publicly. You’ve worked with us as we caused this to evolve to get the number of votes we may get to actually cause this to become law. I don’t know if anybody in our caucus or anybody in the Senate that has more of a foreign policy, national security background, no one. And I want to thank you for your efforts to ensure that we do everything we can to make sure we have a voice in this agreement.” https://youtu.be/XB3lpl98YUc?t=10m44s #####
05.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of a measure designed to punish countries such as China who unfairly manipulate the value of their currency. The legislation is opposed by the Obama Administration. “I’m very pleased the Senate overwhelmingly passed this legislation which I helped author,” said Graham. “Our legislation would impose duties and tariffs on countries like China who intentionally manipulate the value of their currency to gain a competitive advantage over American manufacturers. “The manner in which China and other foreign countries manipulate their currency hurts the American worker and is an undisputed illegal trade practice,” continued Graham. “I hope the House of Representatives will soon take up and pass this important legislation. When it comes to trade, China cheats. This bill fights back.” The measure, which passed the Senate by an overwhelming 78-20 vote, requires the United States Department of Commerce to investigate all allegations of illegal currency manipulation by foreign countries. If illegal manipulation is found, new import duties would be placed on imports from the country in question. The legislation now goes to the House of Representatives. ######
05.13.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded the House of Representatives for passing H.R. 36, the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. Graham is the lead sponsor of the measure and will soon introduce the legislation in the Senate. “There are seven countries who allow on-demand abortions at 20-weeks, and I don’t believe the United States should be in that club,” said Graham, noting that the United States is in company with countries like China and North Korea in allowing the practice. “Over time, we’re going to win on this issue just like we did on another pro-life bill I authored, the Unborn Victims of Violence Act. I believe we are on the right side of history. “I think America is at its best when we are standing up for the least among us. This debate is long overdue. “We now know that an unborn child at the twentieth week of pregnancy can feel pain. In fact, anesthesia is administered directly to unborn children in second trimester fetal surgery. Given these facts and my strong support for life, I believe there is a compelling interest in protecting these unborn children who are among the most vulnerable in our society. “The House has passed this legislation on two separate occasions, yet the Senate has not taken a vote. I welcome this debate in the Senate and look forward to talking about who we are as Americans and what makes us special as a country.” #####
05.11.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Volvo Car Corporation selecting Berkeley County, South Carolina for its first manufacturing facility in the Western hemisphere. The new $500 million factory is expected to create 2,000 new jobs over the next decade and up to 4,000 jobs by 2030. “This is another great day for South Carolina. I spoke with Volvo’s senior leadership several weeks ago and reaffirmed our interest in bringing them to South Carolina. I’m very pleased with the decision announced today. I think it will be a mutually beneficial relationship, for the company and the state, for years to come. “I want to thank Governor Haley, Commerce Secretary Hitt, and all the members of Team South Carolina for their hard work on this project. This decision by Volvo says all you need to know about our state’s workforce and opportunity we provide. South Carolina is already home to many of the nation’s leading manufacturers, and we look forward to adding Volvo to the South Carolina family. “We are proud to welcome Volvo to South Carolina – the home of Smiling Faces, Beautiful Places.” #####
05.07.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded the Senate’s passage of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act, which requires President Obama to submit any deal with Iran regarding its nuclear program to the Congress for review. The Senate voted 98-1 in support of the legislation. Graham said: “Iran cannot be trusted. With passage of this legislation, the American people will have the opportunity to understand the details of any deal that may be entered into with the Iranians regarding their nuclear program. "The American people, and their elected representatives, will be able to look at the content of the agreement, debate the consequences, and vote as to whether or not it’s a good deal for the United States. I believe any deal should be verifiable and include conditions to ensure Iran never acquires a nuclear weapon. I cannot think of a worse scenario for our national security than a bad deal with Iran. "As one of the primary authors of this legislation, I am incredibly pleased this day has finally arrived. I want to thank Senators Corker, Cardin, and Menendez for their leadership in helping push this legislation through the Senate. Now I hope the House of Representatives will soon pass the legislation and we can place it on the President's desk for his signature into law." #####
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passage of the first GOP budget to pass both the House of Representatives and Senate in a decade. Graham said: "While not perfect, I'm proud the Budget Resolution I supported will strengthen the military and lead to a balanced budget without raising taxes. "I was also pleased we were able to maintain an incredibly important provision I authored which increases defense spending. The passage of this provision is one of my proudest accomplishments in the Senate. "I have long believed that the first obligation of the federal government is the defense and protection of our nation. Under my provision, we increase spending in the Overseas Contingency Operations Account to $96 billion, a $38 billion increase over the original allocation of $58 billion. "In addition to financing American military operations in places like Afghanistan and against ISIL, this increased funding will be used to restore military readiness and advance important modernization programs. It will also help the United States military retain its military superiority in protecting our national security. "In 2011, when Congress passed and President Obama signed the sequester into law, ISIL did not exist as a major threat. Today, there are more terrorist organizations with more capabilities, more arms, more recruits, and more safe havens to attack the United States than any time before 9/11. I believe the passage of this provision will be welcome news to those charged with protecting our nation. "Finally, passing this budget is a major accomplishment for the new Republican majority in Congress. Now the budget process continues, and I look forward to an appropriations process where we must continue to fund our vital national priorities in a responsible manner." #####
05.06.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has co-sponsored bipartisan legislation to provide for a temporary, emergency authorization of defense articles, defense services, and related training directly to the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG). This legislation would allow the U.S. to provide direct assistance to the KRG, a critical partner in the fight against ISIL. The companion bill was introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives and has broad bipartisan support across the ideological spectrum. The legislation would give the President temporary emergency authority to provide weapons and training directly to Iraqi Kurdish Peshmerga forces. The three-year authorization seeks to reduce delays in arming Peshmerga forces to fight ISIL, while in consultation with the Iraqi government. “I am glad to lend my support to this legislation that would provide direct assistance to the Kurdish forces in Iraq,” said Graham. “This legislation will allow lethal and non-lethal military assistance to our most reliable military partner within Iraq. Because of problems in Baghdad, I believe it is in our national security interest to reinforce the Kurds who have proven themselves as effective fighters against the common enemy of ISIL.” About the Legislation: • Since the First Gulf War, the Iraqi Kurds and their Peshmerga forces have played a vital role in supporting US interests and a free Iraq despite limited means of doing so. Approximately one million displaced Iraqis and Syrians have taken refuge in the Iraqi Kurdistan Region. • Currently by law, the U.S. must provide support to the Iraqi Kurds through the Iraqi central government in Baghdad. • This legislation provides a three-year authorization for the U.S. to provide weapons directly to Iraqi Kurdish Peshmerga forces in the fight against ISIL. • States it is the policy of the United States to provide direct assistance to the Kurdistan Regional Government to combat ISIL. • Preserves the President’s ability to notify the Iraqi government before weapons, equipment, defense services, or related training is provided to Iraqi Kurdish forces. • Ensures accountability by requiring a report to Congress on U.S. weapons provided to the Iraqi government which have ended up in the hands of Iranian controlled/supported Shia militias. #####
05.05.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded President Obama’s decision to nominate Marine General Joseph F. Dunford, Jr. as the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. “General Dunford is a proven leader, commanding forces in Afghanistan, with a deep understanding of the national security challenges we face. President Obama's selection of General Dunford to become the next Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is outstanding.” ####
04.30.2015	
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – South Carolina’s United States Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott have introduced legislation to rename the Hollings Judicial Center in Charleston as the J. Waties Waring Judicial Center. The request to rename the facility, located at 83 Meeting Street, was made by former South Carolina Senator Ernest F. “Fritz” Hollings for whom the facility is currently named. “I’m proud to be sponsoring legislation to rename the Hollings Judicial Center in honor of J. Waties Waring,” said Senator Graham. “The request to rename the center came as a personal request from Senator Hollings, and I think it speaks volumes about his character and leadership.” “I am excited to see the entire Congressional delegation come together to honor Judge Julius Waties Waring,” Senator Scott said. “Although not widely celebrated during his lifetime, Judge Waring’s contributions to the Civil Rights movement were incredibly important. History will not forget his efforts, and I am proud we are able to honor his memory in this way. I also want to thank Senator Hollings for his selfless request to change the name of the courthouse – he is truly a man of integrity and character." Nominated to the bench by President Franklin Roosevelt, Waring served as a federal judge in Charleston and played an important role in the early stages of the American civil rights movement. #####
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on the floor of the United States Senate in support of Corker-Menendez-Graham-Kaine legislation which would require President Obama to submit any nuclear deal with Iran to the Congress for review. • “I don’t trust the Iranians.” https://youtu.be/XB3lpl98YUc?t=1m47s • “Of all the things we will do Mr. President, probably in our political lifetime, I can’t think of anything more important than getting the Iran nuclear ambitions right.” https://youtu.be/XB3lpl98YUc?t=8s • “There are aspects of amendments that are pending that I would embrace in a New York minute. But I believe that some of these amendments, no matter how much I support the concept, would break apart a bipartisan coalition that’s taken a year to form.” https://youtu.be/XB3lpl98YUc?t=3m57s • “We’ve got a Democratic president who I think wants a deal way too badly.” https://youtu.be/XB3lpl98YUc?t=1m57s • “What’s a bad deal? A bad deal would be one that would result in a North Korean outcome where you lock in a capacity in the hands of the Iranians to be monitored by the international community and one day they break out and you wake up and they’ve got a bomb. A bad deal would be too much capacity in the hands of the Iranians that would spook the Sunni Arabs to want to go buy a bomb of their own. I cannot tell you the consequences to the world and our nation if you have a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. That’s what a bad deal leads to.” https://youtu.be/XB3lpl98YUc?t=29s Senator Bob Corker (R-Tennessee) on Senator Graham’s Work: “I want to thank Senator Graham for his pushing to make sure that we got to this point. There’s no question and look you have been on this for months. You have pursued this. You have sold this publicly. You’ve worked with us as we caused this to evolve to get the number of votes we may get to actually cause this to become law. “I don’t know of anybody in our caucus or anybody in the Senate that has more of a foreign policy, national security background, no one. And I want to thank you for your efforts to ensure that we do everything we can to make sure we have a voice in this agreement.” https://youtu.be/XB3lpl98YUc?t=10m44s #####
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has cosponsored the National Criminal Justice Commission Act of 2015, bipartisan legislation that would create a National Criminal Justice Commission to review the criminal justice system from top to bottom and propose reforms to address serious issues facing our nation’s criminal justice system. The legislation would establish a 14-member, bipartisan National Criminal Justice Commission charged with completing an 18-month, comprehensive review of the national criminal justice system, including federal, state, local, and tribal criminal justice systems, and with issuing recommendations for changes in oversight, policies, practices and laws to reduce crime, increase public safety, and promote confidence in the criminal justice system. The Commission would be made up of Presidential and Congressional appointees, including experts on law enforcement, criminal justice, victims’ rights, civil liberties, and social services. “This is a long overdue measure,” said Graham, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee’s Crime and Terrorism Subcommittee. “The men and women representing law enforcement understand the need for this legislation, and I appreciate them pushing Congress to move forward on this important issue. I think the nation will be better off with this essential top-to-bottom review of the most pressing issues facing our nation’s criminal justice system.” Recent incidents and civil unrest have highlighted the need for a top-to-bottom evaluation of our criminal justice system. The transparent and bipartisan National Criminal Justice Commission would provide a better understanding of community relationships with law enforcement and the administration of justice through our court system, and identify effective policies to address a broad range of issues in the criminal justice system including crime reduction, incarceration, and prisoner reentry. The National Criminal Justice Commission Act of 2015 is supported by a broad coalition of criminal justice organizations, including law enforcement, crime victims, and criminal justice reform advocates. Endorsements for the National Criminal Justice Commission Act of 2015 include: Jonathan F. Thompson, Executive Director and CEO of the National Sheriffs’ Association said: “The National Sheriffs’ Association applauds Senators Peters, Graham and Cornyn for introducing this bill to establish a National Criminal Justice Commission. We believe it is in the best interest of the nation to have a transparent system going forward.” Fraternal Order of Police National President Chuck Canterbury said: “The President's Task Force on 21st Century Policing recommended that Congress establish a national commission of law enforcement and other experts to review and examine all facets of our nation's criminal justice systems to improve our national justice system. The FOP agrees and we support legislation introduced by Senators Peters, Graham and Cornyn that would establish such a commission. The commission will undertake a comprehensive analysis of the administration of justice in our nation today and make recommendations which have the unanimous support of the commission. The goal here is to improve not only policing in the U.S., but our nation's criminal justice system as a whole.” Association of Prosecuting Attorneys President and CEO David LaBahn said: “The Association of Prosecuting Attorneys - the only national prosecutors association to represent and support prosecutors and their deputies at the local, county, state and federal level - strongly supports the introduction of the National Criminal Justice Commission Act. It has been 50 years since there was a holistic review of the national criminal system and this effort is long overdue. We applaud Senators Peters, Graham and Cornyn for the introduction of this crucial legislation.” Chief Richard Beary, President of the International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) said: “I commend Senators Peters, Cornyn, and Graham for introducing this important legislation. For over 20 years, the IACP has called for the creation of a National Commission on Criminal Justice to develop across-the-board improvements to the criminal justice system, in order to address current challenges and to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the entire criminal justice community. The National Criminal Justice Commission Act of 2015 will do just that. It is imperative that we explore all aspects of the criminal justice system and determine what needs to be revamped and develop a strong set of recommendation to address the broad range of new and emerging challenges that confront law enforcement today.” #####
04.29.2015	WASHINGTON -– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on Iran’s seizure of the Maersk Tigris, a Marshall Islands-flagged cargo ship transiting the Strait of Hormuz:“Iran’s seizure of the Maersk Tigris, a Marshall Islands-flagged cargo ship transiting the Strait of Hormuz, is a serious and deliberate provocation against the United States and the international community. Under the Compact of Free Association, the United States is responsible for the defense of the Marshall Islands. This incident comes just days after an Iranian naval patrol intercepted and surrounded a U.S.-flagged cargo ship in the same area. This act is another display of Iran’s contempt for the rules-based international order and a threat to the freedom of navigation in one of the world’s most vital sea lanes.” #####
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the Senate’s vote to confirm Loretta Lynch as the next U.S. Attorney General. “The best thing for the country is to have a new Attorney General and close the book on Eric Holder,” said Graham. “I also believe presidents should have latitude in picking nominees for their Cabinet, and Ms. Lynch is well-qualified for the job. My goal is to have a Republican president nominate the next Attorney General so we will not be forced to choose between Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch.” ####
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made these statements on the death of American citizen Warren Weinstein and Italian Giovanni Lo Porto who were captured and held hostage by al-Qaeda. Graham also commented on the death of Adam Gadahn and Ahmed Farouq, American citizens who joined al-Qaeda.On the Deaths of American Warren Weinstein and Italian Giovanni Lo Porto:“Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families of Mr. Weinstein and Mr. Lo Porto. While I do not yet know all the details, I do believe al-Qaeda should and will bear ultimate responsibility for the death of these two innocent men.”On the Deaths of Adam Gadahn and Ahmed Farouq, American Citizens Who Joined Al-Qaeda: “Gadahn and Farouq, two American citizens who joined al-Qaeda, got what they deserved. “Gadahn served as a chief spokesman for al-Qaeda while Farouq was a top-level operative in the organization. “Based upon their direct and material support for al-Qaeda and affiliated terrorist groups, both men were subject to being killed or captured under the Law of War. Any American citizen who joins al-Qaeda or affiliated terrorist groups are subject to being killed under the Law of War. A decision to join groups like al-Qaeda or affiliated terrorist organizations is made at one’s own peril.” #####
04.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, along with Congressman Joe Wilson (SC-02), today issued the following statement in response to the release of The Aerospace Corporation’s recent study on the cost to construct and operate the Mixed Fuel Fabrication (MOX) Facility in South Carolina: “We have grave concerns with The Aerospace Corporation’s recent assessment of the cost to construct and operate the MOX Facility. Having already spent $4.4 billion on the Project to achieve roughly sixty-five percent completion, we find it difficult to understand how completing and operating the Project will cost another $47.5 billion. “A week before the House Armed Services and Appropriations Committees consider appropriations for this facility – we are concerned with the Obama Administration’s intentions to fulfill our international obligations. MOX will serve as our country’s means by which to honor a nuclear nonproliferation agreement with the Russian Federation. At a time when tensions are high between our two nations, we cannot afford walk away from our side of the Agreement. “In the very near future, we look forward to an in-depth briefing by the Aerospace Corporation as to how they came to their findings. Additionally, it is imperative the contractor (CB&I), DOE, and The Aerospace Corporation sit down and come to agreement on a final cost for the Project. This is essential to ensuring the Project is finished and that taxpayer money is not squandered in the process. We look forward to working with all parties to ensure MOX construction moves forward so the United States can honor its international nonproliferation obligations while simultaneously providing a path to move weapons material out of the Palmetto state.” ###
04.21.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has released a list of eight foundational principles he believes should be mandatory for any acceptable nuclear agreement with Iran. “I have long warned about the dangers posed by the Iranian nuclear program and why any deal should dismantle the Iranians' ability to ever produce a nuclear weapon,” said Graham. “Let's be clear - when it comes to Iranian nuclear ambitions, we cannot allow confusion to exist.” Graham’s Foundational Principles for any Nuclear Agreement with Iran: • Iran must not be allowed an enrichment capability greater than the practical needs to supply one Iranian commercial reactor.• Closure of all hardened and formerly secret sites. Iran must come clean on all outstanding IAEA issues, particularly possible military dimension (PMD) issues.• Intrusive anytime, anywhere inspections of all Iranian military and non-military facilities.• Sanctions relief and access to funds currently in escrow must be phased in and fully conditioned on IAEA certification that Iran is in full compliance with the deal and has demonstrated sustained compliance with the deal over time.• There must be a clear and explicit process for the snapback and re-imposition of sanctions if Iran violates the terms of the deal.• No research and development on advanced centrifuges.• Removal of all enriched uranium out of Iran.• Certification by the President that before any restrictions on Iran’s nuclear program are lifted Iran has changed its aggressive behavior towards states in the region and no longer meets the qualifications to be designated a state sponsor of terrorism. ####
04.17.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) released the following statement today on remarks made by General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, diminishing the possible fall of Ramadi, the capital of Anbar province in Iraq, to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL):“Chairman Dempsey’s statement that Ramadi ‘is not symbolic in any way,’ has ‘not been declared part of the caliphate,’ and is not ‘central to the future of Iraq’ is a gross mischaracterization. Disregarding the strategic importance of Ramadi is a denial of reality and an insult to the families of hundreds of brave young Americans who were killed and wounded during the Surge fighting to free Ramadi from the grip of Al-Qaeda. 150,000 Iraqi men, women, and children, mostly Sunnis, are fleeing ISIL’s murderous advance on Ramadi. General Dempsey does not seem to appreciate that the fall of Ramadi would be seen by Iraqi Sunnis as a failure of the Baghdad government to protect them, and could deal a major blow to political reconciliation efforts that are essential to defeating ISIL. Yet apparently, the current U.S. strategy is to defend an oil refinery in Beiji, but abandon the capital of pivotal Anbar province to ISIL.”Note: Army statistics alone indicate that 187 Army soldiers were killed and over 700 were wounded in Ramadi between August 2005 and March 2007.#####
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today praised the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for passing legislation he co-authored, S. 615, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (Corker-Menendez-Graham). The legislation, which passed the committee unanimously by a 19-0 vote, will now move to the Senate for full consideration. “I’m extremely pleased with the committee’s unanimous vote in favor of our legislation. Given the different interpretations of the framework offered by the Iranians and Obama Administration, it’s imperative any final deal involving the Iranian nuclear program be reviewed by Congress. “We need to ensure when the final agreement is brought forward all the ‘i’s’ are dotted and ‘t’s’ are crossed. The Iranians cannot and should not be trusted. “The overwhelming vote in committee is a testament to the body’s commitment to coming together and demanding we have a say in lifting economic sanctions Congress created. I appreciate the work of Chairman Bob Corker (R-TN) and Ranking Member Ben Cardin (D-MD) in pushing this legislation through committee. “This is one of the most significant foreign policy decisions our nation has faced in decades, and I’m very pleased my colleagues on both sides of the aisle voted in favor of Congress' right to review this deal.” #####
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Obama’s decision to remove Cuba from the list of state sponsors of terrorism. “This is yet another example of President Obama viewing the world through rose-colored glasses. “President Obama is trying to find redeeming qualities in the Cuban regime regardless of the facts. But the facts are clear, there has been no change in the nature of the Castro brothers’ regime.” #####
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today urged the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations to pass legislation he co-authored, S. 615, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act (Corker-Menendez-Graham). President Obama has threatened to veto the Graham-backed legislation which would allow Congress to review and vote on any nuclear agreement with Iran.Graham said:“As one of the original authors, I strongly support this incredibly important legislation. Either with President Obama’s signature – or over his objections – this legislation should immediately be pushed into law.“I have long warned about the dangers posed by the Iranian nuclear program and why any deal should dismantle the Iranians’ ability to ever produce a nuclear weapon. Based upon recent comments made in Tehran, it seems like the Ayatollah and President Obama are talking about two separate agreements.“Let’s be clear – when it comes to Iranian nuclear ambitions, we cannot allow confusion to exist. We must ensure that every ‘i’ is dotted and every ‘t’ is crossed.“The American people deserve to know what is in any nuclear deal with Iran. In addition, Congress should have a say in lifting the economic sanctions which Congress created. Every Member of Congress needs to listen, speak, and be accountable for what I believe will be one of the most significant foreign policy decisions our nation has faced in decades.“Finally, I appreciate the work of my Senate colleagues, Senators Corker, Menendez, and Kaine, in pushing forward on this legislation. I believe there will be a strong bipartisan majority in the Senate supporting our bill.”#####
04.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement regarding President Obama’s upcoming meeting with Cuban President Raul Castro at the Summit of the Americas.“President Obama is truly writing new chapters in American foreign policy. Unfortunately, these latest chapters are ones of America and the values we stand for – human rights, freedom, and democracy – in retreat and decline.“President Obama’s foreign policy has been one appeasement toward autocratic dictators, thugs, and adversaries after another. Is it any wonder that on President Obama’s watch our enemies are emboldened and our friends demoralized?“This week we saw this in action as Cuban government-backed thugs attacked peaceful Cuban pro-democracy advocates in Panama. The Summit of the Americas presents President Obama with a historic opportunity to stand with those independent members of Cuban civil society who are promoting the universal ideals of freedom and liberty, and instead he will use his time to meet with an entrenched dictator Raul Castro. President Obama should take the effort to publically condemn the attacks and meet with these freedom fighters.“There can be no doubt that President Obama’s failing foreign policy has greatly diminished America’s influence in the world.”#####
04.10.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement regarding Iranian supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei’s accusations the Obama Administration is lying about the negotiated framework for a nuclear deal.Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.“The Ayatollah and President Obama appear to be talking about two separate agreements and unfortunately, I can’t say I’m surprised. President Obama wants a deal way too badly, and his Administration has been trying to sell a deal which may not actually exist.“The Ayatollah should be told – in no uncertain terms – that should we come to an actual agreement between both parties, sanctions relief will not be immediate. Any realistic agreement must preclude sanctions relief from being granted until Iran proves it has ended its military nuclear program.“Finally, I will never support an agreement with Iran that does not allow for snap inspections – anytime and anywhere. The ‘anytime-anywhere’ inspection should be a given in light of Iran’s history of cheating, and it would be incredibly dangerous not to require Iran to abide by an ‘anytime-anywhere’ inspections regime.”#####
04.08.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the shooting death of Walter Scott.“Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family of Walter Scott. The horrific video is very difficult to watch and deeply troubling on many fronts.“I have full confidence this incident will continue to be investigated by the relevant authorities, the legal process will proceed, and ultimately, justice will be done.“I also know the actions of the officer in this situation do not accurately reflect on the many valuable contributions made by thousands of law enforcement officers in South Carolina and across our nation.”#####
04.02.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Iranian nuclear negotiations. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee.“I have been very consistent and straightforward when it comes to the manner in which we should address Iranian nuclear ambitions.“I believe any agreement with Iran should require that they dismantle their nuclear weapons program and infrastructure, and forbid them ever having the pathway to develop a nuclear weapon. I believe sanctions relief should not be granted until Iran comes clean and fully reveals the past and present military dimensions of its nuclear program. I believe steps should be taken to ensure that Iran’s nuclear program is to be used solely for peaceful purposes and never allowed to evolve into a program allowing Iran to develop a nuclear weapons capability.“I look forward to reviewing the details and fine print of the deal announced today in Switzerland. Based upon the statements made and press reports, there appears to be major confusion and uncertainty over exactly what the deal entails. There also appears to be major differences of opinion over what impact the deal will have on the Iranian’s drive to develop a nuclear weapon. While I will reserve judgment until the details are known, it is notable how far from the White House’s initial negotiating principals we appear to be.“Given the magnitude of this potential agreement and based on the obvious conflicts in interpretation, it is increasingly imperative Congress review any deal before it is finalized and before congressional sanctions are lifted.“I also categorically reject President Obama’s construct that if Congress does not accept this agreement it means war. My biggest fear is a bad deal, which makes Iran a nuclear threshold state, will lead to an arms race in the Middle East. In addition, it will put our closest ally in the region, Israel, at great risk.“The impact of a bad deal with Iran is unimaginable to our own national security, the region as a whole, and our allies. We simply cannot take President Obama’s word that it is this or war.”#####
04.01.2015	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on the Iran nuclear negotiations:“We appreciate the diligent efforts to find a diplomatic solution to Iran’s nuclear ambitions. However, it is clear the negotiations are not going well. At every step, the Iranians appear intent on retaining the capacity to achieve a nuclear weapon. Without significant change, we have little confidence the negotiations will end well.“Regardless of the outcome, Iran’s threat to regional security and stability endures. Any hope that a nuclear deal will lead Iran to abandon its decades-old pursuit of regional dominance through violence and terror is simply delusional. The Obama Administration’s failure to recognize and counter this threat has only served to expand Iranian influence.”####
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passage of the Senate budget.Graham said:"While not perfect, I'm proud the Budget Resolution I supported will strengthen the military and lead to a balanced budget without raising taxes."I was also pleased we were able to maintain an incredibly important provision I authored which increases defense spending. The passage of this provision is one of my proudest accomplishments in the Senate."I have long believed that the first obligation of the federal government is the defense and protection of our nation. Under my provision, we increase spending in the Overseas Contingency Operations Account to $96 billion, a $38 billion increase over the original allocation of $58 billion."In addition to financing American military operations in places like Afghanistan and against ISIL, this increased funding will be used to restore military readiness and advance important modernization programs. It will also help the United States military retain its military superiority in protecting our national security."In 2011, when Congress passed and President Obama signed the sequester into law, ISIL did not exist as a major threat. Today, there are more terrorist organizations with more capabilities, more arms, more recruits, and more safe havens to attack the United States than any time before 9/11. I believe the passage of this provision will be welcome news to those charged with protecting our nation."Finally, passing this budget is a major accomplishment for the new Senate Republican majority. We returned regular order to the Senate and pushed for up-or-down votes on numerous amendments so the American people could clearly see where their elected officials stand. Now the budget process continues and I look forward to an appropriations process where we must continue to fund our vital national priorities in a responsible manner." #####
03.27.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) this week introduced bipartisan legislation to boost jobs in American textile manufacturing by cracking down on illegal imports and other forms of textile import fraud. The Textile Enforcement and Security Act would strengthen trade enforcement on textile and apparel imports and give Customs and Border Protection (CBP) new tools to crack down on fraudulent textiles.“This common sense bill will add significant protections for textile workers by strengthening existing customs enforcement mechanisms and creating new tools to combat fraud,” said Graham. “We owe it to the hard working men and women of the textile industry to protect their product against those who seek to take advantage of lax enforcement. This bill does exactly that, and I look forward to seeing its provisions become law.”“We can rebuild our nation’s textile and apparel industry and create jobs by making sure foreign competitors are playing by the same rules,” said Brown. “The textiles industry has the potential to create jobs and boost America’s manufacturing sector. But in order for this industry to remain competitive, we must crack down on customs fraud by putting more trained specialist at our ports. This bill would not only punish those who cheat our trade agreements, it would also provide a boost to small manufacturers and businesses in Ohio and across the country who produce high-quality apparel.”“As a U.S. textile manufacturer employing over 5,000 workers at facilities in 8 states, Parkdale Mills strongly supports the additional resources and tools provided to Customs and Border Protection (CBP) by the Textile Enforcement and Security Act (TESA). When all companies in our free trade regions are held to the same standard, workers at Parkdale can compete with anyone in the world. However, when others cheat the system and break established trade rules, they gain an unfair advantage that severely hurts U.S. investment, production, and exports,” said Anderson Warlick, President and CEO of Parkdale Mills. “CBP must be equipped to identify and stop bad actors who seek to circumvent the rules that underpin our free trade agreements. TESA ensures that CBP has qualified and well-trained specialists, and the 21st century tools necessary to ensure that U.S. trade agreements work for U.S. workers and companies. Parkdale Mills commends Senators Lindsey Graham and Sherrod Brown for their leadership in reintroducing TESA in the Senate, and urges others in Congress to support this important measure that tackles customs fraud and abuse and supports U.S. manufacturing.”The Textile Enforcement and Security Act would strengthen trade enforcement of textile and apparel imports by: • Requiring seizure of textile and apparel imports if the product’s country of origin is not verified or is falsified; • Requiring CBP to use the fines collected from textile and apparel import violations to pay for training of specialists in textile and apparel enforcement; • Requiring specific staffing levels at the Textile Enforcement Branch; • Requiring CBP to certify that a certain number of import specialists at the 15 largest US ports are trained to prevent textile and apparel import fraud; • Requiring the Treasury to publish in the Federal Register the names of persons outside the United States who have violated textile and apparel custom laws; and • Requiring CBP and the Department of Commerce to establish an electronic verification system for tracking textile and apparel imports under Free Trade Agreements (FTA). #####
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the President of Afghanistan, Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai’s address to Congress and the future of Afghanistan.“President Ghani is one of my oldest and closest friends in Afghanistan. I’ve known him for years and find him to be understanding of who we are as Americans. President Ghani recognizes and is deeply appreciative of the many sacrifices Americans have made in that country.“I appreciate his work in tackling corruption in Afghanistan and working to create functioning institutions. President Ghani is part technocrat, part visionary leader – an incredibly hard combination to find in any country.”On American Troop Withdrawal from Afghanistan:“I implore President Obama to adopt a conditions-based withdrawal, not a hard deadline. If President Obama moves to a hard deadline, we will put at risk all we have fought for and our homeland will again be exposed to future attacks.“While I’m encouraged by reports that the Obama Administration may slow the rate of its military drawdown in Afghanistan this year, I remain deeply concerned by reports that the Administration is holding to an arbitrary calendar date for its significant drawdown plan next year – rather than relying on conditions on the ground. Such a course would put at immediate risk all gains achieved over thirteen years of war in Afghanistan.“Our Afghan partners are stepping up to lead the fight to secure their country against insurgents and terrorists. Afghan forces are making real progress, but they will not have reached full capability by the end of 2016. A continued U.S. commitment is essential to help train, advise, and assist Afghan forces in certain critical military areas, including intelligence, logistics, combat aviation and airlift, and special forces. These are the same capabilities that Iraqi forces were missing when the United States precipitously withdrew at the end of 2011. We must not repeat this mistake. But that is exactly what will happen if President Obama insists on withdrawing from Afghanistan whether the job is done or not.“A residual force in Afghanistan is a front-line defense for the United States. I’ve always believed our national security interests will not be judged by the day we leave Afghanistan, but by what we leave behind.#####
03.24.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) spoke on the Senate floor last night about President Obama's White House Chief of Staff calling the Israeli presence in the West Bank an ‘occupation.'On Saturday, Graham spoke by telephone with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and congratulated him on his recent electoral victory and discussed the ‘unbreakable bonds' between the United States and Israel.LINDSEY GRAHAM QUOTES: On the Security of Israel: "Today, Israel is surrounded by radical Islamists, unlike at any time I can remember." - https://youtu.be/2POx-fuuJCQ?t=1m36s On Israel as an ‘Occupying' Power: "The language used by the Chief of Staff of the President of the United States is exactly what Hamas uses. So now our administration is taking up the language of a terrorist organization to describe our friends in Israel. Here is a question to the American people: Would you withdraw from the West Bank, given the situation that exists today on the ground between the Israelis and the rest of the region? Would you at this moment in Israel's history completely withdraw from the West Bank, given the experience in Gaza?" - https://youtu.be/2POx-fuuJCQ?t=1m44s On Prospects for a Two-State Solution: "I talked with the Prime Minister [Netanyahu] Saturday and I congratulated him on a decisive victory and I look forward to working with him. He told me very clearly that he believes a two-state solution is not possible as long as the Palestinian Authority embraces Hamas, which controls the Gaza strip and is a terrorist organization by any reasonable definition. Who do you make peace with, Mr. President? What kind of deal can you make when almost half the Palestinian people are in the hands of a terrorist organization who vow to destroy you every day? What kind of deal is that? "Do I want a two-state solution? Yes, I would like a two-state solution, where the Palestinians recognize the right of Israel to exist and they have the ability to chart their own destiny. They are not anywhere near there. The Palestinian community is broken into two parts. The Hamas terrorist organization controls the essential part of the Palestinian community. They will not recognize Israel's right to exist. They are using the territory they hold as a launching pad for attacks against Israel routinely. These are the people who launch rockets from schoolyards and apartment buildings trying to blame Israel for being the bad guy when they respond." - https://youtu.be/2POx-fuuJCQ?t=2m53s On the Iranian People ‘Speaking Out' in Favor of a Nuclear Deal: "So, Mr. McDonough, President Obama, you are completely delusional about the world as it is. You are negotiating with an Iranian regime, and in the President's New Year's greeting he called on the Iranian people to speak out in support of a nuclear deal. Mr. President, don't you understand that in Iran you can't speak out; that if you do speak out and petition your government you can get shot or put in jail? You don't understand that? You are talking to people as if they have a voice. You are talking about the regime as if they are some kind of rational actor. In that same New Year's greeting, the President complimented the regime, headed up by the Ayatollahs, as being cooperative in terms of their nuclear negotiations with the P5+1. What the President didn't mention is that this very regime that is spreading terror, unlike at any time in recent memory, is involved in the toppling of four Arab capitals. They are wreaking havoc on the neighborhood. As we are negotiating on their nuclear deal, they are still the largest state sponsor of terrorism. They called for death to America 2 days ago." - https://youtu.be/2POx-fuuJCQ?t=4m37s On the Current Status of US-Israel Relations: "So when I thought it couldn't get any worse, it has. Let me put the Obama administration on notice. You may not like the fact that Prime Minister Netanyahu won, but he did, and here is what you need to understand. If you are recalculating the administration's support for Israel in terms of how you handle resolutions in the United Nations, you need to understand that Congress will recalculate how we relate to the United Nations if you stand on the sidelines and let the U.N. take over the peace process. - https://youtu.be/2POx-fuuJCQ?t=6m19s "So I say to the Obama administration: Israel is not the problem. The Israeli people have not killed one American soldier. The Israeli people are in a dispute about their survival with the Palestinian people. The Israeli people gave land to the Palestinians, and in return they got 10,000 rockets, and you want them to do it again. Can't you understand why Israel may not want to withdraw from the West Bank given the history of Gaza? If you can't, you are completely blind to the world as it is, and your hatred and your disgust and your disdain for the Prime Minister has clouded your judgment." - https://youtu.be/2POx-fuuJCQ?t=7m53s
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on reports that the Obama Administration is holding to an arbitrary calendar date - rather than conditions on the ground - for the final U.S. withdrawal from Afghanistan: "While we have been encouraged by word that the Obama Administration may slow the rate of its military drawdown in Afghanistan, we are deeply concerned by reports that the Administration is holding to an arbitrary calendar date for the final U.S. withdrawal, rather than one based upon conditions on the ground. Such a course would put at immediate risk all gains achieved over thirteen years of war in Afghanistan."Our Afghan partners are stepping up to own the fight to secure their country against insurgents and terrorists. Afghan forces are making real progress, but they will not have reached full capability by the end of 2016. Our continued commitment will help to train, advise, and assist Afghan forces in intelligence, logistics, combat aviation and airlift, and special forces. These are the same capabilities Iraqi forces were missing when the United States precipitously withdrew at the end of 2011. We must not repeat this mistake. But that is exactly what will happen if President Obama insists on withdrawing from Afghanistan whether the job is done or not."#####
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued the following statement on Obamacare five years after it was signed into law. "Obamacare isn't getting better with age. "Five years after it became law, we've seen millions of Americans lose the health care coverage they were promised they could keep, while many other Americans have had their work hours and incomes reduced because of Obamacare. I've opposed Obamacare from Day One and oppose it still today. I believe we should ‘Repeal and Replace' or allow Americans to ‘Opt-Out' of Obamacare as I fear the worst is still to come." #####
03.23.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is among a bipartisan group of senators who have introduced the Export-Import Bank Reform and Reauthorization Act of 2015, which will reauthorize the Bank's charter until September 30, 2019. Without congressional action, the Bank's authorization will expire this summer on June 30th.“I strongly support reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank,” said Graham. “For Congress to risk allowing the Bank to close is a matter of ideology trumping common sense. Closing the Bank right now would amount to unilateral disarmament by the United States and would hang American workers out to dry. It’s decisions like these that make Americans extremely frustrated with Washington.“China’s export credit agencies financed more last year than the United States, Germany, Canada, and the United Kingdom combined. I refuse to unilaterally surrender American jobs and competitiveness by abolishing an agency which actually makes money for the American taxpayer. Reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank is one of the most important things we can do for job creation and American business this year.”Established in 1934, the Ex-Im Bank guarantees loans and credit to businesses otherwise unable to operate through private lenders. Nearly 90 percent of the Bank's transactions each year directly benefit small businesses, and the Bank supports more than 205,000 American jobs. In 2013, the Bank returned more than $1 billion to the United States Treasury.Graham noted both small and large businesses in South Carolina have benefitted from the Ex-Im Bank. One of the most prominent examples is The Boeing Company, which opened the 787 Dreamliner production facility in North Charleston. The facility employs more than 7,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs.Approximately eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners that have been built in South Carolina are eligible for Ex-Im financing. And approximately four out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners built in Charleston since April 2012 have been financed by Ex-Im.####
03.21.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after speaking with the Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu. Graham is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations of the Senate Appropriations Committee.Graham said:"I greatly enjoyed my conversation today with the Prime Minister of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu. I passed along my heartfelt congratulations on his electoral victory, as he is expected to be asked by President Rivlin to form a new government. We also discussed the 'unbreakable bonds' that exist between Israel and the United States."I assured the Prime Minister of Congress' intent to look closely at any Iranian nuclear deal as there remains strong bipartisan support for that approach. I have long believed and made clear that Congress should look at any Iran deal before we lift additional sanctions. I strongly agree that Iran with a nuclear capability poses a direct threat to the security of Israel and the United States."I also indicated to the Prime Minister there would be bipartisan resistance to Palestinian efforts to join the International Criminal Court (ICC). I told the Prime Minister it has been long held United States policy that Palestinian attempts to join the ICC, in an effort to marginalize Israel's ability to defend herself, remains, in my view, a deal-breaker in terms of our assistance to the Palestinians."Finally, the Prime Minister expressed gratitude for the assistance Israel has received from the United States through the years. I let the Prime Minister know that there were many in the Congress, both Republicans and Democrats, who have Israel's back."#####
03.20.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) today introduced and passed an amendment that would increase spending on defense. The vote in the Senate Budget Committee was 12-10.The Graham-Ayotte amendment increases spending in the Overseas Contingency Operations Account by $38 billion, up to $96 billion, from the original allocation of $58 billion. In addition to financing American military operations in places like Afghanistan and against ISIL, this increased funding will be used to restore military readiness and advance important modernization programs-allowing the United States military to retain its military superiority and protect our national security."I have long believed that the first obligation of the federal government is the defense of our nation," said Graham, a member of the Senate Budget Committee. "In 2011, when Congress passed and President Obama signed into law the blind across-the-board budget cuts known as sequestration, ISIL did not exist as a major threat. The increase in funding, which now means the Senate GOP budget spends more on defense than President Obama's, will allow our military to be more prepared to deal with the growing threats to our homeland. I'm pleased to say we were able to accomplish this goal without raising taxes. There are more terrorist organizations with more capabilities, with more arms, with more recruits, with more safe havens to attack the United States than any time before 9/11. I believe the passage of this amendment will be welcome news to those charged with defending our nation.""The Director of National Intelligence recently said that in his 50-year plus career in the intelligence community, he couldn't think of a time ‘more beset by challenges and crises around the world' than today," said Ayotte, a member of the Senate Budget Committee and chair of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Readiness and Management Support. "American troops are deployed overseas in Afghanistan and combating the threat we face from ISIS and other terrorist groups, and we have a responsibility to provide them with the very best training and equipment available. At a time when the threats to our nation are growing, this amendment provides necessary funding to protect our servicemen and women and keep our country safe.""I am pleased by the passage of the amendment to increase funding for national defense, which every uniformed military leader has testified is absolutely essential to protecting America's national security," said U.S. Senator John McCain (R-Arizona). "I refuse to ask the brave young Americans in our military to defend this nation with insufficient resources that would place their lives in unnecessary danger. Using OCO to prevent this scenario is not my preference, but it is infinitely better than the current defense spending caps, and it could help to avert a looming disaster for our military. Beyond this year's budget resolution, it will remain my highest priority as Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee to achieve a long-term, bipartisan solution that responsibly funds defense once and for all. Meeting our constitutional duty to provide for our nation's defense requires no less."Finally, the senators noted the passage of the amendment today was a step in the right direction but does not fully fix the problem. The House of Representatives and Senate have additional work to do in the coming months when it comes to replacing the Budget Control Act's budget limits and replenishing defense funding.######
03.19.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced The Manufacturing Universities Act of 2015 to ensure we meet the growing demands of 21st century manufacturing by strengthening our universities’ engineering programs.The bill directs the Department of Commerce to designate 25 universities as ‘Manufacturing Universities’ in an effort to better align educational offerings with the needs of advanced manufacturers. The resources provided to designees would be used to bolster universities’ efforts to prioritize engineering and manufacturing curricula specifically related to targeted industries.“This is an incredibly important issue for our states’ institutions of higher education and manufacturing industries,” said Senator Graham. “I look forward to working on additional, innovative ways to ensure our manufacturing sector thrives and maintains its international competitiveness in the years to come.”The Manufacturing Universities Act of 2015, also supported by Senators Chris Coons (D-Delaware), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York), and Tammy Baldwin (D-Wisconsin), would establish a program within the Commerce Department’s National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) charged with designating 25 schools as ‘Manufacturing Universities.’ Designated schools would receive $5 million per year for four years to meet specific goals, including focusing engineering programs on manufacturing, building new partnerships with manufacturing firms, growing training opportunities, and fostering manufacturing entrepreneurship. The program would be run by the Director of the NIST, in coordination with the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, and the Director of the National Science Foundation, among others.“The Manufacturing Universities Act recognizes the critical role that research universities play in sustaining and growing the manufacturing industry sector, which is also one of South Carolina’s leading employers,” said Dr. James P. Clements, President of Clemson University. “We at Clemson University are excited about the opportunities this legislation could create to support advanced manufacturing workforce development, research and university-industry collaborations that foster innovation and entrepreneurship.”“I want to thank Senators Graham and Coons for their leadership in recognizing the critical role research universities play in the development of the American workforce and our future economic prosperity,” said Harris Pastides, President of the University of South Carolina. “The Council on Competitiveness has said that our country must foster innovation and rapid commercialization and has named manufacturing as a key initiative. At USC, we are responding to the call and leading the way with new initiatives like our Office of Economic Engagement and McNair Center for Aerospace Innovation and Research. We’re committed to providing our students with the classroom and experiential learning opportunities to succeed in a high tech economy and engaging industry to understand and meet the needs of next-generation manufacturing. Federal support for closing the innovation deficit is crucial and the Manufacturing Universities Act can help ensure America’s workforce remains the best educated and most competitive for generations to come.”This bipartisan legislation has been endorsed by Clemson University, the University of South Carolina, Association of American Universities, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, The Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, the Precision Metalforming Association, the National Tooling & Machining Association, the University of Delaware, Delaware State University, University of Pennsylvania, Temple University, Drexel University, the University of Missouri System, the University of Illinois, the University of California, Davis, the University of California, Irvine, Boston University, the University of Rochester, the Rochester Institute of Technology, the State University of New York (SUNY) System, Kent State University, the University of Wisconsin, the University of Connecticut, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Clarkson University, Dow, DuPont, and Siemens.#####
03.17.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has issued the following statement on today's elections in Israel."I want to congratulate the people of Israel on a successful and peaceful election. The Israeli people, by their casting of ballots and voting for their leaders, showed the power of democracy in action. I eagerly await the final results and the organization of a new government in Israel."Israel and the United States have a long and valued friendship and alliance. We also have common values and share common enemies. I look forward to continuing to build on a strong US-Israel relationship as we both seek to address the rise of radical Islam and the threat posed to both our nations by the Iranian nuclear program."###
03.16.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on media reports that the Obama Administration may slow down its withdrawal from Afghanistan:“We are encouraged by media reports that the Obama Administration may slow its withdrawal from Afghanistan, potentially allowing a greater U.S. force to continue critical counterterrorism and training missions together with our Afghan partners. If these reports are true, this would be a welcome step in the right direction, one supported by our nation’s top military commanders given the conditions on the ground.“However, we remain concerned that the Administration appears intent on maintaining President Obama’s calendar-driven deadline to withdraw all U.S. troops from Afghanistan by the end of next year. Such a course would invite the same disaster we have seen in Iraq: a vacuum filled by instability and terror that would ultimately threaten the United States.“History will judge President Obama’s legacy not by the day we leave Afghanistan, but by what we leave behind. Continuing to train, advise, and assist the Afghan security forces and to meet our mutual counterterrorism objectives is critical to sustaining Afghanistan’s security and protecting the United States.”###
02.26.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued the following statement on why he supported U.S. Attorney General nominee Loretta Lynch at today’s Senate Judiciary Committee hearing.“It's time to turn the page on Eric Holder's tenure as Attorney General,” said Graham. “We need a fresh start in the position, and this is an opportunity for our nation to move forward.“Ms. Lynch is well-qualified and comes recommended by those who have dealt with her on both sides of the aisle. During her service as U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, she dealt with high profile terrorism cases and I believe she understands the national security threats we face.”####
02.18.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on the fall of Debaltseve to Russian-backed Ukrainian separatists:"The fall of Debaltseve to Russian-backed Ukrainian separatists should be all the evidence we need to proclaim the failure of the recent ceasefire agreement in Ukraine. Since yesterday, this delusional piece of paper has done nothing to stop the death of dozens more Ukrainian soldiers and the surrender of more of Ukraine's sovereign territory to Vladimir Putin and his proxies."Putin has achieved his military objectives in Debaltseve, and I fear that Western leaders, rather than facing the harsh reality of Russian actions, will allow Putin to claim that he is abiding by the terms of the ceasefire. In reality, he will use the weeks and months ahead to consolidate his latest gains, to continue arming and training his proxy army, to destabilize the Ukrainian government and economy, to try to divide the transatlantic alliance, and to prepare for his next military offensive, which will likely occur in Mariupol. Persisting with the illusion of a ceasefire will only give Putin the cover he wants to plan his next act of aggression inside of Ukraine."And yet Western leaders, including the President of the United States, continue to cling to any available excuse not to provide defensive arms and other much-needed military assistance to the Ukrainian government. As President Obama continues to ‘consider' lethal assistance, Putin continues to act with lethal force to achieve his military objectives in Ukraine."Ukrainians have the will to resist this aggression, and are not asking anyone to do their fighting for them. They only ask that the defenders of democracy to give them the means to resist the onslaught of a dictator. Shame on us for failing them."####
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of legislation that would restrict transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay in order to best protect Americans and our national security. The legislation passed through the Senate Armed Services Committee by a vote of 14-12. "In light of the Taliban 5 and other provocative releases made by the Obama Administration, it's only appropriate that we call a time-out," said Graham. "The Obama Administration seems more concerned about fulfilling their campaign promise to close Gitmo than protecting our national security. Now is not the time to be sending radical Islamic terror groups reinforcements from Gitmo." The bill, introduced by Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and cosponsored by Graham, suspends international transfers of high and medium risk detainees, prohibits the transfer of any Guantanamo detainee to Yemen, extends the current prohibition on transfers to the U.S., and increases transparency regarding the risk assessments of the remaining Guantanamo detainees. The legislation: • Extends the Prohibition on Construction or Modification of Facilities in the United States. Extends the prohibition on construction or modification of facilities in the U.S. to house current Guantanamo detainees for two years. • Extends the Prohibition on Transfers to the United States. Extends the standard prohibition on the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S for two years from enactment. The provision would permit the administration to place new detainees at Guantanamo for law of war detention and interrogation and then bring them to the United States. • Suspends International Transfers of High and Medium Risk Detainees. Prohibits international transfers of Guantanamo detainees who have ever been designated or assessed by Joint Task Force Guantanamo to be a high or medium risk to the U.S., our interests, or our allies for two years from enactment. • Prohibits Transfers to Yemen. Prohibits the transfer of any Guantanamo detainees to Yemen for two years from enactment. • Establishes a Higher Standard for International Transfers. Repeals the current international transfer provision (Section 1035 of FY 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)) the administration has used to transfer Guantanamo detainees and replaces it with the tough but reasonable standards from Section 1028 of the FY 2013 NDAA, which includes a national security waiver. If the administration can meet these commonsense requirements, over the next two years, the administration could transfer detainees internationally (but not to Yemen) who have never been designated or assessed as a high or medium risk to the U.S., our interests, or our allies. • Increases Transparency. Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit an unclassified report providing details on current Guantanamo detainees who have at any point been designated or assessed by Joint Task Force Guantanamo as a high or medium risk threat to the U.S., its interests, or its allies. "There are more terrorist organizations with more safe havens, more resources, more members, and more capabilities to strike the American homeland now than there were before 9/11," said Graham. "For the United States to be releasing hardened jihadists from Gitmo, at this stage in the War on Terror, is dangerous and should be vigorously opposed." ####
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of legislation that would restrict transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay in order to best protect Americans and our national security. The legislation passed through the Senate Armed Services Committee by a vote of 14-12. "In light of the Taliban 5 and other provocative releases made by the Obama Administration, it's only appropriate that we call a time-out," said Graham. "The Obama Administration seems more concerned about fulfilling their campaign promise to close Gitmo than protecting our national security. Now is not the time to be sending radical Islamic terror groups reinforcements from Gitmo." The bill, introduced by Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and cosponsored by Graham, suspends international transfers of high and medium risk detainees, prohibits the transfer of any Guantanamo detainee to Yemen, extends the current prohibition on transfers to the U.S., and increases transparency regarding the risk assessments of the remaining Guantanamo detainees. The legislation: • Extends the Prohibition on Construction or Modification of Facilities in the United States. Extends the prohibition on construction or modification of facilities in the U.S. to house current Guantanamo detainees for two years. • Extends the Prohibition on Transfers to the United States. Extends the standard prohibition on the transfer of Guantanamo detainees to the U.S for two years from enactment. The provision would permit the administration to place new detainees at Guantanamo for law of war detention and interrogation and then bring them to the United States. • Suspends International Transfers of High and Medium Risk Detainees. Prohibits international transfers of Guantanamo detainees who have ever been designated or assessed by Joint Task Force Guantanamo to be a high or medium risk to the U.S., our interests, or our allies for two years from enactment. • Prohibits Transfers to Yemen. Prohibits the transfer of any Guantanamo detainees to Yemen for two years from enactment. • Establishes a Higher Standard for International Transfers. Repeals the current international transfer provision (Section 1035 of FY 2014 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA)) the administration has used to transfer Guantanamo detainees and replaces it with the tough but reasonable standards from Section 1028 of the FY 2013 NDAA, which includes a national security waiver. If the administration can meet these commonsense requirements, over the next two years, the administration could transfer detainees internationally (but not to Yemen) who have never been designated or assessed as a high or medium risk to the U.S., our interests, or our allies. • Increases Transparency. Requires the Secretary of Defense to submit an unclassified report providing details on current Guantanamo detainees who have at any point been designated or assessed by Joint Task Force Guantanamo as a high or medium risk threat to the U.S., its interests, or its allies. "There are more terrorist organizations with more safe havens, more resources, more members, and more capabilities to strike the American homeland now than there were before 9/11," said Graham. "For the United States to be releasing hardened jihadists from Gitmo, at this stage in the War on Terror, is dangerous and should be vigorously opposed." ####
02.11.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the United States is closing our embassy in Yemen and evacuating diplomats from the country. Graham is the Chairman of the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Subcommittee which has oversight over State Department operations. Graham said: "It's long been clear Yemen was not the ‘success story' that President Obama once claimed it to be. Today's news is an unfortunate, yet totally predictable, development which confirms that fact. Given the deteriorating security situation in Yemen, the State Department was left with no alternative but to withdraw American diplomats from the country and close our embassy. "Yemen has been of strategic importance to the United States, and I fear these latest developments will create a vacuum that will ultimately benefit al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). AQAP is a committed enemy of the United States and is believed to have been responsible for the recent terror attacks in Paris. AQAP continues to harbor a burning desire to attack the United States, and we must remain vigilant in protecting ourselves from them. "Finally, our nation continues to be weakened by the Obama Administration's lack of an overall strategy to deal with the threat posed by radical Islam. Yemen is but the latest, yet I fear probably not the last, example of President Obama's failing foreign policy. #####
02.09.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Obama's reluctance to provide defensive weapons to Ukraine. "President Obama's continual weakness in the face of aggression is making the world a more dangerous place. His reluctance to provide defensive weapons - which Ukraine desperately needs to protect themselves against Russian intervention - is another low point in a presidency which has many to choose from. "In the Budapest Memorandum, Ukraine agreed to relinquish its nuclear arsenal while Russia, the United States, and the United Kingdom pledged to respect the independence and sovereignty of Ukraine's borders. But this latest episode once again shows that under President Obama's leadership it is better to be America's enemy than her friend. It's a sad fact that our enemies are seldom challenged while our friends are constantly undercut and abandoned. "The Ukrainian people do not have time for President Obama's "strategic patience." It is time for President Obama to quit equivocating and quickly provide Ukraine the defensive weapons it needs." #####
01.29.2015	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after voting in support of constructing the Keystone XL pipeline. "I was proud to vote today in support of the Keystone XL pipeline. "I was one of the first members of the United States Senate to visit the Canadian oil sands to see first-hand how this resource could benefit our country. The choice is simple - build the pipeline, create jobs in the United States, and lessen our dependence on oil from the Middle East. We need oil and Canada has the means to deliver it to us. There's nothing more common-sense than expanding our long-standing, mutually beneficial relationship with Canada. "The fate of Keystone XL is in President Obama's hands. If he rejects the pipeline it will be one of the most short-sighted decisions in memory." #####
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism, and Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, along with eight of their Republican colleagues on the Judiciary Committee, today sent this letter to current U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder and U.S. Attorney General nominee Loretta Lynch demanding answers about the current extradition of two Yemeni al-Qaeda members from Saudi Arabia to the United States for prosecution in an Article III civilian court. The two Yemenis, Shaddiq Al-Abbadi and Ali Alvi, are charged with conspiring to kill U.S. soldiers fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq and for providing material support to al-Qaeda. "It appears in this case that the U.S. government relied on foreign governments to detain and interrogate the Yemenis and share that information with the United States," wrote Graham and Grassley. "In the case of Al-Abbadi, it took almost five years after his initial capture for this Administration to take him into custody. And when it did, the Administration decided to pursue an Article III prosecution, transfer him to New York, read him his Miranda rights, and give him an attorney. This is no way to fight a war. "Rushing to prosecute al-Qaeda terrorists picked up on foreign battlefields or in foreign countries unnecessarily limits the life-saving intelligence that could be collected by our military. Unfortunately, this is a recurring theme under the current Administration. The United States cannot criminalize the war for ideological purposes. We must use every tool at our disposal to defeat our radical enemy." The text of the letter is below. #### Dear Attorney General Holder: On January 20, 2015, the Department of Justice announced that two members of al-Qaeda from Yemen, Saddiq Al-Abbadi, also known as "Sufiyan al Yemeni," and Ali Alvi, also known as "Issa al Yemeni," had been brought to the United States from Saudi Arabia for prosecution in an Article III civilian court. According to the complaint filed in the Eastern District of New York in April 2009, the two Yemenis are charged with conspiring to kill U.S. soldiers who were fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq and providing material support to al-Qaeda. According to press reports and the complaint, Al-Abbadi was in direct contact with al-Qaeda's most senior leaders, served as senior logistical and facilitation officer for al-Qaeda's Shadow Army, and maintained close contact with al-Qaeda cells all over the world. He was also involved in the recruitment into al-Qaeda of a United States citizen, and both Yemenis frequented al-Qaeda safe-houses throughout the Middle East, and have contacts with al-Qaeda and its affiliates in Iraq, Yemen, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iran, and Chechnya. Based on this information, it is clear to us that Al-Abbadi and Alvi were treasure troves of intelligence. Nevertheless, and even though it is reported that Al-Abbadi was taken into custody in Pakistan in May 2009 with the assistance of the U.S. government and after the federal complaint had been issued, the U.S. government apparently did not seek to take custody, detain him under the law of armed conflict, and permit the U.S. government to interrogate him directly for any and all intelligence information. This had been the practice in the prior Administration and resulted in the detention and interrogation of senior al-Qaeda operatives like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and Faraj al-Libi, who are both presently detained at Guantanamo. Instead, it appears in this case that the U.S. government relied on foreign governments to detain and interrogate the Yemenis and share that information with the United States. In the case of Al-Abbadi, it took almost five years after his initial capture for this Administration to take him into custody. And when it did, the Administration decided to pursue an Article III prosecution, transfer him to New York, read him his Miranda rights, and give him an attorney. This is no way to fight a war. While we want nothing more than to see terrorists brought to justice, we have numerous concerns about this Administration's policies on the detention, interrogation, and prosecution of terrorists. First, we fear the potential loss of intelligence when the Administration elects to outsource the detention and interrogation of terrorists to foreign governments, perhaps due to a political aversion to the U.S. detaining them at Guantanamo. We are also concerned when terrorists are transferred directly to Department of Justice control and prosecuted in Article III courts immediately after they are taken into U.S. custody. Finally, we continue to have concerns with this Administration's reluctance to use military commissions to prosecute foreign terrorists who were involved in attacks against U.S. military forces in Afghanistan and Iraq. We have the utmost confidence in, and respect for, our federal law enforcement investigators and prosecutors, but their mission is different from that of our Armed Forces. Accordingly, the Department of Justice has a different set of tools at its disposal, and is seeking a different, albeit complimentary, outcome. Rushing to prosecute al-Qaeda terrorists picked up on foreign battlefields or in foreign countries unnecessarily limits the life-saving intelligence that could be collected by our military. Unfortunately, this is a recurring theme under the current Administration. The United States cannot criminalize the war for ideological purposes. We must use every tool at our disposal to defeat our radical enemy. Therefore, we would like to know: (1) why did the U.S. government not seek to detain and interrogate these individuals immediately following their capture by a foreign government; (2) why were these individuals transferred to the custody of the Department of Justice for prosecution instead of to the custody of the Department of Defense for military detention and interrogation; and (3) why did this transfer to U.S. custody take so long? In addition, the Department of Justice announced that on January 24, 2015, another alleged terrorist, Faruq Khalil Muhammed ‘Isa, charged in a 2011 complaint with the murder of five American soldiers in Iraq, was extradited from Canada to the United States for an Article III trial. Therefore, to better understand these decisions and to ensure that the Congress provides adequate oversight over the Administration's decisions going forward, we request that the Department of Justice identify all non-U.S. citizens affiliated with al-Qaeda and who were involved, in any way, in attacks on U.S. troops and who have been brought (or are in the process of being brought) into the United States to face charges in an Article III court. We also request copies of all charging documents to include indictments and/or federal criminal complaints, and arrest warrants, in each identified case. In light of the importance of this issue and the upcoming hearing on the President's nominee for Attorney General, we respectfully request that you provide us this information no later than 10:00am on Wednesday, January 28, 2015. We look forward to your response.
01.21.2015	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) released the following statement regarding President Obama's State of the Union Address this evening: "We are pleased that President Obama addressed a number of issues on which Republicans and Democrats can work together in the coming year. The President rightfully underscored the importance of free trade to bolster American economic competitiveness around the world. And in the wake of recent cyberattacks, we are eager to work with the President and our colleagues in Congress to pass much-needed cybersecurity legislation. "However, on critical national security issues, President Obama's speech tonight was an unfortunate demonstration of how strategically listless his Administration now is. "The President's pronouncement of a ‘smarter kind of American leadership' must be puzzling to any American who has watched the news in the past six years. The Middle East is in tumult, and a wave of terrorist threats is gathering new momentum. Russia has dismembered a sovereign European state. China's assertiveness continues to rattle American allies in Asia. Taliban attacks are increasing as the President continues his calendar-based withdrawal from Afghanistan. "American leadership is clearly not ‘smarter' under President Obama - it is dangerously absent. "Nowhere is this clearer than with respect to the crisis in Iraq and Syria. President Obama's speech tonight was further evidence of the shameful lack of a coherent Administration strategy to achieve his stated goal of degrading and ultimately destroying the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). Despite the President's claims of progress in the campaign against ISIS, this terrorist army continues to gain thousands of recruits and now controls significantly more territory in Syria than when U.S. airstrikes began there six months ago. "In September 2014, President Obama referred to Yemen as a model for the campaign against ISIS. And yet, Al-Qaeda continues to use Yemen to facilitate global terrorism, as we saw in the barbaric attacks in Paris. And now, Iranian-backed Houthi rebels are pushing Yemen to the brink of collapse. If the President uses the same failed strategy in Syria that he holds up as a model in Yemen, we can expect the same results: a failed state, reduced American influence, and more safe havens for violent Islamic extremists committed to attacking America and our allies. "America needs and deserves more than wordplay and half measures dressed up as ‘smart' leadership. America needs a reality-based national security strategy, and the resources and resolve to see it through. "But no strategy can succeed under the mindless mechanism of sequestration. President Obama's own military commanders have repeatedly warned of the strategic folly of cutting $1 trillion from our national defense at a time when threats to our security continue to multiply. However, the President failed tonight even to mention sequestration, the damage it has already done to our military capabilities and readiness, and the dangerous vulnerabilities it will create if it is not rolled back. Sadly, on this vital issue, as on so many others, the leadership of our commander in chief is nowhere to be seen." ####
01.21.2015	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the State of the Union Address. "The President's address was a lost opportunity and shows a man out of touch on both domestic and foreign policy. "On domestic policy, instead of laying out an agenda that would help garner bipartisan support, the President repeatedly chose to head down the partisan road. He apparently missed the November elections where Republicans won big -- in every corner of the country -- by campaigning against his ideas which were, in his own words, ‘on the ballot.' "On the foreign policy front, the President is in denial and America is growing weaker under his leadership. Radical Islam, a term this President and Administration have been reluctant to use, is on the march. I fear the President's refusal to define the war for what it is is a mistake and dangerous. "There are more terrorists, more organizations with more weapons, more safe havens and more terror capabilities now than there were before 9/11. And let's be clear, these groups would prefer nothing more than to hit us here at home - in the United States - than anywhere else in the world. "President Obama should acknowledge radical Islam cannot be appeased. Radical Islamists have no limits when it comes to destruction and the taking of human life. They are motivated by a religious doctrine which requires them to convert or destroy all who are opposed to their religious views. In essence, they are pursuing a master religion for the world as the Nazi's tried to pursue a master race. Both concepts are inherently evil and should suffer the same fate. "In addition, the Iranians continue to pursue nuclear weapons capability. A nuclear-capable Iran represents a threat to our strongest ally in the region, Israel, as well as to our own national security given Iran's record of sharing military technology with terrorist organizations. "The question for the country now is - can a conservative, Republican Congress work with a liberal Democratic president to move our nation forward? The answer should be yes. I believe it must be yes. "If we work together to find common ground, I believe we can achieve results for the American people. We can make our tax code flatter and simpler and address some of the many problems associated with our crumbling infrastructure. Working together, we can stop the Iranian nuclear threat and make America safe and secure from the threat of terrorism. "I hope President Obama will decide to change course and work with Republicans in the Congress to address the great challenges we face, both here at home and abroad." #####
01.15.2015	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement today regarding the Administration's announcement last night that it has transferred four Guantanamo detainees to Oman and one to Estonia: "As this week's transfer demonstrates, the Administration continues to transfer Guantanamo detainees while providing virtually no details to the American people regarding the risk the detainees present to our country and our allies, as well as the detainees' affiliations with terrorist groups and the conditions of their transfer. "Of the five Yemenis transferred this week, four were sent to Oman, which shares a border with Yemen. According to a public report, Said Kouachi-one of the terrorists in the Paris attacks-is suspected of using a trip to Oman to slip into Yemen for terror training in July 2011. If that report is accurate, we just sent four Guantanamo detainees, with potential ties to al Qaeda, to Oman-the same country that reportedly served as the jumping off point for Said Kouachi to travel to Yemen for terrorist training. "The lack of details provided to the public by the administration about these terrorists demonstrates the need for the transparency with the American people our legislation would require. "If the detainees the administration has been transferring are truly not a threat to the American people, the administration should provide the unclassified details our legislation requires for the 32 detainees whom the administration has transferred since May." Earlier this week, Senators Graham, Ayotte, McCain, and Burr introduced legislation that would restrict transfers of detainees from Guantanamo Bay in order to best protect Americans and our national security. The Detaining Terrorists to Protect America Act of 2015 would suspend international transfers of high and medium risk detainees, prohibit transfers of Guantanamo detainees to Yemen, extend the current prohibition on transfers to the U.S., and increase transparency regarding risk assessments of the remaining Guantanamo detainees. ####
01.14.2015	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement to celebrate South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley's inauguration for a second term. "I'm honored and excited to be part of Governor Haley's inauguration," said Graham. "It's a big day for the state of South Carolina, Governor Haley, her family, and her many supporters. I look forward to continue working with Governor Haley to get things done as she continues to recruit new businesses and high-paying jobs to our state. South Carolina is in good hands under her leadership." ####
01.10.2015	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on the handling of the investigation into former CIA Director David Petraeus: "While the facts of the case involving General David Petraeus remain unknown and are not suitable for comment, it is clear that this investigation has been grievously mishandled. "It is outrageous that the highly confidential and law enforcement-sensitive recommendation of prosecutors to bring charges against General Petraeus was leaked to the New York Times. It is a shameful continuation of a pattern in which leaks by unnamed sources have marred this investigation in contravention to fundamental fairness. "No American deserves such callous treatment, let alone one of America's finest military leaders whose selfless service and sacrifice have inspired young Americans in uniform and likely saved many of their lives." ###
01.09.2015	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey), Chuck Schumer (D-New York), and Mark Kirk (R-Illinois) today made this statement on the Palestinian Authority's (PA) decision to join the International Criminal Court (ICC). "The Palestinian Authority's (PA) decision to join the International Criminal Court (ICC) is deplorable, counterproductive, and will be met with a strong response by the United States Congress. "Israel, like the United States, is not a member of the ICC and therefore is not subject to its jurisdiction. Further, existing U.S. law makes clear that if the Palestinians initiate an ICC judicially authorized investigation, or actively support such an investigation, all economic assistance to the PA must end. In light of this legal requirement, Congress will reassess its support for assistance to the PA and seek additional ways to make clear to President Abbas that we strongly oppose his efforts to seek membership in the ICC. If the ICC makes the egregious mistake of accepting the Palestinian Authority as a member, given that it is not a state, Congress will seek ways to protect Israeli citizens from politically abusive ICC actions. "Palestinian leaders will no doubt try to do to the ICC what they have done to international organizations like the UN Human Rights Council - take an organization with laudable goals and undermine its credibility by turning it into a political battering ram against Israel. The ICC and its members would be making a terrible mistake if they allow their important global role to be compromised. "Today there is no viable Palestinian state, and nothing will bring about that goal other than direct negotiations. Rather than committing to direct negotiations with Israel for a sustainable, realistic two-state compromise, President Abbas seeks to launch unilateral, politicized investigations of Israel citizens. He would do better to commit to the exacting, demanding work of diplomacy. As an immediate demonstration of his intentions, President Abbas should end Palestinian actions to join the ICC and pledge to re-enter negotiations with Israel for an enduring, realistic solution to this ongoing conflict. We renew our calls for the Palestinian Authority to end its pact with Hamas, a recognized terror organization that is committed to Israel's destruction and whose charter calls for the murder of Jews." #####
01.07.2015	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on this morning's terrorist attack in Paris which has left at least 12 people dead. "Our thoughts and prayers are with the victims, the families, and the French people in the wake of this horrendous attack. "Simply stated, radical Islam - through extreme violence and intimidation - is trying to replace our way of life with theirs. I have no doubt they will ultimately fail, but the question is how many will be injured or killed before that day arrives? "Here at home, we must use this horrific attack as an opportunity to reevaluate our own national security posture. I fear our intelligence capabilities, those designed to prevent such an attack from taking place on our shores, are quickly eroding. Through a combination of poor policy choices made by the Obama Administration regarding detention and interrogation policies, and budget cuts approved by the Congress with President Obama's support, I believe our national security infrastructure designed to prevent these types of attacks from occurring is under siege. "President Obama should immediately change his interrogation and detention policies as we are gradually losing the ability to detect, disrupt and prevent future terrorist attacks. In addition, it is time to restore the necessary funding to our intelligence-gathering and national security operations. "I fear we can expect and must prepare for more attacks like this in the future. ISIL is well-funded and has an entrenched command structure that is actively inspiring terrorist attacks throughout the world. And while President Obama has the right goal in destroying ISIL, I fear the policies he is using are grossly insufficient and leave our homeland increasingly exposed. "Finally, we should acknowledge that radical Islamists have no limits when it comes to destruction and the taking of human life. That is why it remains imperative that we never allow radical Islamic terrorists to acquire weapons of mass destruction. While today's attack in Paris involved conventional weapons, I fear the terrorist attacks of the future could be even more lethal and even more tragic if these organizations acquire chemical, biological or nuclear weapons. Denying them this capability is the challenge of the time." #####
12.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports North Korea is behind the recent cyber-attacks against Sony Pictures Entertainment. "Cyber-terrorism is increasingly becoming the weapon of choice for rogue regimes and terrorist organizations. The Commander-in-Chief should immediately put our enemies on notice that they conduct these attacks against our nation and interests at their own peril. We should make it clear to our adversaries that when they attack our American companies and government institutions they will be held accountable. "Unfortunately, these latest attacks highlight our nation's vulnerabilities. Modernizing our cyber-security laws and working to protect our national interests against cyber-terrorism should be a top priority for Congress in the coming year. It's long overdue." #####
12.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Chuck Schumer (D-New York) sent this letter to Secretary of State John Kerry urging that the State Department veto any United Nations Security Council resolution that imposes a peace agreement on our friend and ally Israel, outside of direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. "There are multiple efforts in the United Nations Security Council to set parameters for final status negotiations, effectively imposing terms on our ally Israel in matters that are vital to its security and national interests," wrote Graham and Schumer. "We strongly urge you to make clear to all parties that the United States strongly opposes, and if need be will veto, any effort to bypass direct negotiations and impose peace terms on Israel through the United Nations. "A failure to decisively announce that we will veto any resolution from the United Nations that dictates the peace process runs counter to decades of American foreign policy and only gives momentum to these counterproductive proposals," concluded the senators. The text of the letter is below. ##### Dear Secretary Kerry: We write to express concern about ongoing efforts to impose the terms of a peace agreement on our friend and ally Israel outside of direct negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians. We urge you to make clear that the United States will veto any United Nations resolution and would oppose any efforts to bypass direct negotiations and impose peace terms on Israel through the United Nations Security Council and other international bodies. For decades, the United States has consistently opposed efforts to bypass direct negotiations and impose terms on Israel through the United Nations Security Council. As President Obama said to the United Nations General Assembly in 2011, "I am convinced that there is no short cut to the end of a conflict that has endured for decades... Peace will not come through statements and resolutions at the United Nations... Ultimately, it is the Israelis and the Palestinians, not us, who must reach agreement on the issues that divide them; on borders and on security, on refugees and Jerusalem." We strongly agree with this sentiment. Yet there are multiple efforts in the United Nations Security Council to set parameters for final status negotiations, effectively imposing terms on our ally Israel in matters that are vital to its security and national interests. We strongly urge you to make clear to all parties that the United States strongly opposes, and if need be will veto, any effort to bypass direct negotiations and impose peace terms on Israel through the United Nations. A failure to decisively announce that we will veto any resolution from the United Nations that dictates the peace process runs counter to decades of American foreign policy and only gives momentum to these counterproductive proposals. We thank you for your continued dedication to this issue and we look forward to supporting our government's efforts to bring both parties back to the negotiating table without preconditions.
12.17.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today made this statement on President Obama's plans to ease U.S. restrictions on Cuba and normalize diplomatic relations. "We agree with President Obama that he is writing new chapters in American foreign policy. Unfortunately, today's chapter, like the others before it, is one of America and the values it stands for in retreat and decline. It is about the appeasement of autocratic dictators, thugs, and adversaries, diminishing America's influence in the world. Is it any wonder that under President Obama's watch our enemies are emboldened and our friends demoralized? "Unfortunately, we fear the most damaging chapter to America's national security is still being written. We dread the day President Obama takes to the podium to announce a nuclear deal with the Iranian ayatollahs which does little, if anything, to deter their nuclear ambitions, placing our nation and our closest allies in even deeper peril." ####
12.15.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced that he has been appointed to continue his service on four powerful committees in the new Republican-controlled Senate which will convene next month. Graham's committee assignments for the 114th Congress will be: • Armed Services • Appropriations • Judiciary • Budget "This combination of committees will prove very beneficial to our state and give me the opportunity to shape conservative policy on many fronts," said Graham. "These committees will allow South Carolina a voice on policies impacting national security, the budget, and legal issues and provide us the capacity to ensure tax dollars are spent wisely and efficiently. "I'm also pleased that my colleague Tim Scott has been appointed to serve on the Finance Committee. It will give him and our state a strong voice on important policies affecting our nation." ####
12.12.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased with the funding provided for the Charleston Harbor deepening project and South Carolina's ports in the year-end spending bill, also termed the CR/Omnibus, which would fund most federal agencies through the end of FY 2015 and include a short term spending bill for the Department of Homeland Security. The legislation passed the House of Representatives last night and will be considered in the Senate today. Graham noted the South Carolina projects include: • $1.2 million for Charleston Harbor Deepening and Construction; • $695,000 for Charleston Harbor Deepening Feasibility study and continued investigation; • $13.1 million for Charleston Harbor operations and maintenance; • $5.93 million for Cooper River operations and maintenance; "Completion of the Charleston Harbor deepening project remains the number one issue for South Carolina's economy," said Graham. "The Port of Charleston is the Palmetto State's gateway to the world. That's why I have long believed that, when it comes to Charleston Harbor deepening, failure is simply not an option." Graham noted the legislation includes language for smaller ports like Georgetown which could help pave the way to operations and maintenance funding that would help restore the Georgetown Port to its authorized depth of 27 feet. The report language says, "Concerns persist that the administration's criteria for navigation maintenance do not allow small, remote, or subsistence harbors and waterways to properly compete for scarce navigation maintenance funds. The Corps is urged to revise the criteria used for determining which navigation projects are funded in order to develop a reasonable and equitable allocation under this account. The criteria should include economic impact that these projects provide to local and regional economies, in particular those with national defense or public health and safety importance." "The Georgetown Port can be another economic engine for the region, and the efforts we make in this legislation will pay dividends in the future," concluded Graham. ####
12.11.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - South Carolina's U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina) today said the Coast Guard's Air Facility Charleston will stay open until at least January 1, 2016. The provision continuing operation of the facility was included in S. 2444, the Coast Guard Authorization Act, which has now passed through the Congress and is being sent to President Obama. This past October, the Coast Guard announced abruptly that it would close air facilities in Charleston, South Carolina and in Newport, Oregon. The Coast Guard Authorization Act prohibits the Coast Guard from closing any Coast Guard air facilities that were in operation on November 30, 2014 or retiring, transferring, relocating or deploying an aviation asset from an air facility for the purpose of closing such facility through January 1, 2016. ####
12.11.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased with the funding provided for Savannah River Site (SRS) in the year-end spending bill, also termed the CR/Omnibus, which will fund most federal agencies through the end of FY 2015 and include a short term spending bill for the Department of Homeland Security. Graham said funding for the Site includes: • Language that prohibits the Department of Energy (DOE) from putting the MOX program in ‘cold-standby.' • $345 Million for continued construction of the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility. • $547 Million for Tank Cleanup; and • $135 Million for Salt Waste. "When the President submitted his budget request to Congress this year, he proposed a short-sighted plan that would in effect shutter MOX while other options were studied," said Graham. "I am proud that we were able to overcome this misguided effort and secure the additional funding and authority to continue construction of the MOX facility. In next year's budget request, I hope, and expect, to see a greater commitment from DOE to the state of South Carolina on MOX and the cleanup program. "The Administration and DOE need to make the cleanup and operations at SRS a priority," continued Graham. "While we were able to meet the funding request for tank cleanup efforts at the site, we need to do better. The Administration's plan will cause DOE to miss every tank cleanup milestone they agreed to with South Carolina." ####
12.10.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and twenty-two Republican Senate colleagues today expressed deep concern about the impact the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) proposed power plan would have on electricity prices and power grid reliability. In a letter to EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy, the senators called for the rule's withdrawal, citing unrealistic interim targets, a severely constrained timeline for implementation, and complications related to multi-state resources among the many concerns raised by stakeholders. "As proposed, the rule would have sweeping impacts that would not only raise Americans' electricity prices, but also jeopardize the reliability of our nation's power grid," the Senators wrote in the letter. "Our nation's families and businesses depend upon affordable, reliable electricity. Unfortunately, EPA's ESPS proposal will constrain Americans' energy choices and inflict significant economic harm without producing any tangible environmental benefits." Full text of the letter is available below: December 10, 2014 The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator Environmental Protection Agency U.S. EPA Headquarters - William J. Clinton Building 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy, We write to express serious concern regarding EPA's proposed existing source performance standards (ESPS) under Section 111(d) of the Clean Air Act and to identify some key issues that must be addressed in any final rule. As proposed, the rule would have sweeping impacts that would not only raise Americans' electricity prices, but also jeopardize the reliability of our nation's power grid. Among the biggest problems with the rule are the unrealistic interim targets, severely constrained timeline for implementation, and the complications related to multi-state resources. First, as both state environmental agencies and industry stakeholders have pointed out, the emission rate targets are front-loaded, requiring a disproportionate percentage of emission rate reductions in the early years of the program. These unrealistic reduction rates do not account for the time needed to accommodate the infrastructure changes needed to achieve them. Development of new generation and transmission resources takes time. Planning, design, siting, permitting, and construction can easily take as long as a decade. Comparing the interim emission rate reduction in 2020 (from the 2012 baseline) to the final emission rate reduction required by 2030, total emission rate reductions that must occur between the 2012 baseline and the 2020 emission rate target reach as high as 90%. The median reduction level is 66% for all states during that timeframe. Under EPA's second building block- prematurely shutting down coal-fired generation in favor of natural gas combined cycle generation, EPA's emission rate formula results in a 100% decrease in coal generation by 2020 in some states. Furthermore, this premature shutdown of coal fired generation will pose serious reliability risks to the electric grid and result in billions of dollars in stranded investment in expensive pollution control equipment that has been installed in order to comply with recent EPA regulations. For these reasons, we urge the elimination of the 2020 targets. Second, states have very little time to prepare and submit implementation plans-13 months from the time EPA issues a final rule with a possibility of a one-year extension for individual state plans or two-year extension for multi-state plans. This is simply not enough time for states to plan and prepare for such significant changes to their electricity generating portfolio, let alone address "beyond-the-fence" energy efficiency programs. Moreover, regional transmission operators must have time to evaluate and provide feedback on the state plans to address impacts on regional markets and ensure power reliability. As outlined in its 2014 Initial Reliability Review of EPA's Proposed Clean Power Plan, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation also needs time to assess resource adequacy and long-term reliability of the North American bulk power system. A third fundamental issue to be resolved is how EPA will account for electricity resources generated in one state but used in another. While EPA has promulgated state-based reduction targets, our electricity system is interconnected with many cross-state purchase agreements. EPA's current proposal fails to establish a workable regulatory framework for addressing these complicated, but critically important multi state issues. Our nation's families and businesses depend upon affordable, reliable electricity. Unfortunately, EPA's ESPS proposal will constrain Americans' energy choices and inflict significant economic harm without producing any tangible environmental benefits. We urge you to address the wide range of issues raised by stakeholders regarding this proposal, including the three key concerns we have identified above, should you choose to proceed with issuing any final rule. However, we strongly believe the best way to address the aforementioned concerns is by withdrawing this ill-conceived and overreaching rule in its entirety. ##### Joining Graham in signing the letter: Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.); John Boozman (R-Ark.); Richard Burr (R-N.C.); Saxby Chambliss (R-Ga.); Dan Coats (R-Ind.); Thad Cochran (R-Miss.); John Cornyn (R-Texas); Mike Crapo (R-Idaho); Deb Fischer (R-Neb.); Jeff Flake (R-Ariz.); Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa); John Hoeven (R-N.D.); Johnny Isakson (R-Ga.); Mike Johanns (R-Neb.); John McCain (R-Ariz.); Jerry Moran (R-Kan.); Rob Portman (R-Ohio); Jim Risch (R-Idaho); Pat Roberts (R-Kan.); Richard Shelby (R-Ala.); John Thune (R-S.D.); and Roger Wicker (R-Miss.).
12.09.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the release of a Senate Intelligence Committee report regarding the CIA's post-9/11 interrogation techniques. On Timing and Release of the Report: "The timing of the release is problematic given the growing threats we face. Terrorism is on the rise, and our enemies will seize upon this report at a critical time. Simply put, this is not the time to release the report. "I believe its release at this time is politically motivated. I have no doubts that it will create problems for our country and the men and women serving our nation around the globe." On Support for Investigating CIA Interrogation Techniques: "As a military lawyer for more than 30 years, I believe we can and must fight this war within our values. I supported the investigation of the CIA as the problems of interrogation policies were obvious to me. I do not condone torture and continue to believe abusive detention and interrogation techniques used in the past were counterproductive. I'm very happy the techniques in question are no longer utilized." On Obama Administration Detention and Interrogation Policies: "We have now gone from one extreme to the other. We've gone from waterboarding to reading Miranda Rights and providing taxpayer funded lawyers to foreign terror suspects within days of capture. In addition, we no longer hold and lawfully interrogate High Value Targets who can provide valuable intelligence to prevent future attacks. "The policies the Obama Administration has employed treats terrorists as common criminals, not enemy combatants. I'm convinced their criminalization of the war is causing our nation to lose valued intelligence which can help protect our nation." #####
12.03.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued the following statement in support of South Carolina's decision to sue the Obama Administration over President Obama's executive action on immigration. "This overreach by President Obama is breathtaking, and every American should be unnerved by the implications of this decision. The executive action is unprecedented and tramples on the concept of constitutional checks and balances. "I fully support Attorney General Wilson's efforts to challenge President Obama's executive order. The President does have prosecutorial discretion, but he does not have the power to confer legal status by executive fiat. It's one thing to delay or defer prosecutions. It's something else entirely to grant millions of people a legal status without going through Congress. "Attorney General Wilson is absolutely right to go after this presidential overreach, and I will be supportive in every way possible." ####
11.24.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the resignation of Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel. "I appreciate Secretary Hagel's life-long service to our country. He's a distinguished combat veteran who bravely served in Vietnam and someone who has always tried to do what he thought was best for our men and women in uniform. "I particularly appreciate his recent efforts to speak truth to power when it comes to our failing strategy in Syria and Iraq. Secretary Hagel's recent memo about how our strategy is failing and must be adjusted was welcome news to those of us who have harbored these thoughts for some time. It's clear to me Secretary Hagel realizes our failures in Syria have also greatly contributed to destabilization in Iraq and a more robust response is required. "Whether it was leaving a residual force behind in Iraq or assisting the Free Syrian Army at a time when it would have been most beneficial, our failing strategies in Iraq and Syria are President Obama's fault. On numerous occasions he has chosen to ignore sound military advice. "I hope President Obama will now do the same soul-searching regarding our failing strategies in Syria and Iraq. He too must be willing to make the necessary changes. "While I have had very public differences with Secretary Hagel on policy, I have always respected him as a person. I wish Secretary Hagel well and appreciate all he has done for our country." ##### On Possible Replacements as Secretary of Defense: "Three potential replacements who have been mentioned - Senator Jack Reed, Michele Flournoy, and Ashton Carter - are solid choices for this important position."
11.24.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), and John McCain (R-Arizona) today made the following statement on the extension of negotiations with Iran over their nuclear program. "One of the most important issues facing our nation and the world at large is how to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapons capability. While we strongly support diplomatic efforts to achieve a lasting, verifiable agreement with Iran that permanently ends Iran's nuclear weapons program, we must avoid negotiating a deal that puts the security of the United States or our allies at risk and fails to address Iran's decades-long history of cheating and subterfuge. "It is clear to us that Iranian insistence on having an enrichment program is problematic, and we fear it could lead to a repeat of the mistakes we made with North Korea. Years ago, the international community allowed North Korea a small nuclear program which was to be controlled and monitored by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). Unfortunately, the inspectors were thrown out and North Korea was able to develop and test nuclear weapons. We cannot repeat the same mistakes when it comes to the Iranian nuclear program. "A bad deal with Iran will start a nuclear arms race in the Middle East as Sunni Arab states will not allow Iran to hold a nuclear sword over their heads without responding in kind. In addition, a nuclear-capable Iran represents an existential threat to our strongest ally in the region, Israel, as well as to our own national security, given Iran's record of sharing military technology with terrorist organizations. "We have supported the economic sanctions, passed by Congress and signed into law by the president, in addition to sanctions placed on Iran by the international community. These sanctions have had a negative impact on the Iranian economy and are one of the chief reasons the Iranians are now at the negotiating table. However, we believe this latest extension of talks should be coupled with increased sanctions and a requirement that any final deal between Iran and the United States be sent to Congress for approval. Every Member of Congress should have the opportunity to review the final deal and vote on this major foreign policy decision. "If the P5+1 negotiates a good deal which successfully dismantles Iran's nuclear weapons program, it will receive an overwhelming vote in support. However, if it sets the stage for the creation of another North Korea, we will vote against it and expect Congress to reject it. "When it comes to the Iranian nuclear ambitions, we strongly believe the most prudent policy would be to verify, verify, verify....never trust." ####
11.21.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement opposing President Obama's effort to take executive action and unilaterally change immigration. Graham said: "I oppose President Obama's effort to unilaterally fix a broken immigration system by granting amnesty to five million illegal immigrants. "This is wrong. It's irresponsible. It will do damage to our efforts to fix a broken immigration system. This is a tremendous presidential overreach. "I will try to defund the effort for him to go it alone. We will challenge him in court. "I will continue to work to repair a broken immigration system in a bipartisan fashion. What the President has chosen to do has done great damage to our nation." ####
11.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - In a continued effort to ensure the safety of residents living and working in coastal areas, members of Congress from Oregon today joined South Carolina lawmakers in calling on the U.S. Coast Guard to keep facilities in South Carolina and Oregon from closing next month. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Ron Wyden (D-Oregon), Jeff Merkley (D-Oregon), and Representatives Mark Sanford (R-South Carolina), Tom Rice (R-South Carolina), Kurt Schrader (D-Oregon), Peter DeFazio (D-Oregon), Suzanne Bonamici (D-Oregon), and Earl Blumenauer (D-Oregon) signed the letter urging the Coast Guard to reverse its abrupt announcement from October that it would close facilities in Charleston, South Carolina and Newport, Oregon. Rep. Duncan Hunter (R-California), chairman of the House Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation, also signed the letter. "We believe that the United States Coast Guard's decision to close air facilities in Newport, Oregon and Charleston, South Carolina would needlessly endanger mariners in our respective states and we urge you to prevent the Coast Guard from doing so," the lawmakers wrote in the letter. While the Coast Guard claims that it will still be able to meet the national standard of a two-hour search-and-rescue response time, the lawmakers argue that fewer assets could lengthen response times and threaten the safety of local mariners. "While we strongly support efforts to spend federal dollars more efficiently, we cannot support budget cuts that needlessly jeopardize the lives of our constituents. We therefore urge you to reevaluate the Coast Guard's decision and to prevent the Coast Guard from closing these air facilities," they wrote. In response to previous calls from South Carolina and Oregon lawmakers, the Coast Guard announced it would delay the December 1 closure of the Charleston and Newport facilities until December 15. Charleston is one of the nation's busiest cargo ports and is home to a robust tourism industry as well as large shrimp, crab and oyster fleets. Newport houses National Oceanic and Atmospheric vessels and Oregon's largest commercial fishing fleet, in addition to research vessels from Oregon State University. ####
11.07.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and John McCain (R-AZ) today released the following statement on reports that President Obama sent a secret letter to Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei urging him to join the fight against ISIS: "It is outrageous that, while the cries of moderate Syrian forces for greater U.S. assistance fall on deaf ears in the White House, President Obama is apparently urging Ayatollah Khamenei to join the fight against ISIS. This is the same Iranian regime that has been complicit in the rise of ISIS by pushing a violent sectarian agenda throughout the Middle East -- backing radical Shia militias and politicians in Iraq, doing everything in its power to aid the killing machine of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, arming Hamas terrorists with advanced rockets in Gaza, and orchestrating Hezbollah's dispatch of thousands of fighters from Lebanon into Syria. "The Administration needs to understand that this Iranian regime cares more about trying to weaken America and push us out of the Middle East than cooperating with us. Until we recognize that reality, and formulate a regional strategy to counter the Iranian regime's malign influence, we will continue to harm U.S. national security interests, as well as our relationships with our closest regional allies and partners, in pursuit of the illusory goal of rapprochement with the current Iranian leadership. The consequences of this ill-conceived bargain would destroy the Syrians' last best chance to live in freedom from the brutal Assad regime." ####
10.20.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on the Administration's decision to resupply Kurdish forces in Kobani with arms, ammunition, and other supplies, and its continued lack of an effective strategy against ISIS: "We support the Administration's decision to resupply Kurdish forces in Kobani with arms, ammunition, and other supplies. This is a good step in a recent series of actions to increase U.S. efforts to prevent ISIS from taking Kobani. "At the same time, this tactical adjustment should not be confused for an effective strategy, which is still lacking. As U.S. efforts increase to help secure Kobani, ISIS continues advancing in Anbar province as well as on Baghdad and other strategically significant cities. We continue to urge the Administration to quickly adopt a comprehensive strategy and avoid the perils of gradual escalation - in Kobani and in the broader fight against ISIS in Iraq and Syria. This will only lead to an unnecessary loss of life and reduce our chances of success, as we have learned in other conflicts. "Degrading and ultimately destroying ISIS will require additional actions that we have long advocated, such as the deployment of U.S. Special Forces and military advisers on the ground to direct airstrikes and advise our local partners; the expansion of assistance for moderate Syrian forces, and the establishment of safe zones protected by no fly zones in Syria. Rather than preemptively ruling-out steps such as these for policy reasons, the President should take them now as appropriate to change the momentum on the ground against both ISIS and the Assad regime and to create conditions for a political transition and an end of the conflict in Syria. That is ultimately what it will take to destroy ISIS and keep America safe, and we cannot afford to delay any longer." ###
10.06.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- The National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) has awarded Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence. The award is based on Senator Graham's votes in the 113th Congress on issues that are critical to manufacturing in the United States. "Manufacturers in South Carolina and throughout the United States are making a comeback, creating jobs, making more products and making them better than ever before," said NAM Senior Vice President of Policy and Government Relations Aric Newhouse. "However, manufacturers are often disproportionately impacted by decisions made by policymakers in Washington. The NAM is proud to stand with lawmakers like Senator Graham who understand what is at stake and seek to implement policies that will foster innovation, growth and competitiveness." Key Votes included in the Voting Record are selected by small, medium and large manufacturing executives who serve on the NAM's Key Vote Advisory Committee. Additional information on the NAM Award for Manufacturing Legislative Excellence can be found here. According to the association, NAM is the largest manufacturing association in the United States, representing small and large manufacturers in every industrial sector and in all 50 states. Manufacturing employs more than 12 million men and women, contributes $2.08 trillion to the U.S. economy annually, has the largest economic impact of any major sector and accounts for two-thirds of private-sector research and development. #####
10.01.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Secret Service. "The testimony delivered by the Director of the Secret Service yesterday was not confidence-inspiring. What she described as mistakes were major security breaches. Now is not the time for our enemies to believe we cannot protect our nation's Commander in Chief. I appreciate the Director's service, but it's time for new leadership at the agency. "Additionally, it's time for an independent top-to-bottom review of the agency, its operations, and ability to fully carry out its mission." ####
09.30.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on President Ashraf Ghani and the new Afghan government for signing the Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA), and the need for President Obama to commit to a conditions-based drawdown and a residual force in Afghanistan: "We commend President Ashraf Ghani and the new Afghan government for signing the Bilateral Security Agreement (BSA). This important agreement will enable U.S. troops to remain in Afghanistan beyond this year. However, the BSA alone will not guarantee the security of either Afghanistan or America. That requires President Obama to revise his plan for an unconditional withdrawal from Afghanistan. We are already experiencing the dangerous consequences of the president's unconditional withdrawal from Iraq, and we cannot afford to make the same mistake in Afghanistan. We urge President Obama to commit to a conditions-based drawdown in Afghanistan and an enduring U.S. presence to further our counterterrorism mission and continue advising and assisting Afghan security forces. Failure to do so would endanger U.S. national security and risk squandering the hard-earned gains made possible by the sacrifice of so many brave young Americans." ###
09.24.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement regarding President Obama's speech to the United Nations General Assembly. "I believe today's speech was a missed opportunity by the President to detail a clear, decisive strategy to defeat radical Islam and deter aggressors like Putin," said Graham. "President Obama rightly said radical Islamists only understand the ‘language of force.' However, when President Obama then pledges not to use ground forces against ISIL, he emboldens the enemy. They hear what we, the United States, will not do to defeat them. "Finally, President Obama condemning Russia without arming Ukraine is just empty rhetoric. Putin doesn't fear or respect President Obama's words. He would respect a well-trained, well-armed Ukrainian army fighting for their freedom." ####
09.23.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on last night's air strikes against ISIS and the Khorasan Group in Syria: "We commend President Obama for ordering last night's air strikes against ISIS and the Khorasan Group in Syria, and the U.S. military for the skill and courage with which it carried out this operation. We especially salute our Arab partners for their historic and valuable involvement in our coalition effort. However, last night's air strikes should be just an opening salvo against ISIS in Syria. This will be a long, difficult campaign, and as ISIS regroups and adapts, we and our partners will ultimately need a limited presence of troops on the ground-not to invade and occupy Syria or Iraq, but to advise local forces, direct air strikes, gather intelligence, and conduct special forces operations, among other related missions. "To succeed, the Administration must also resolve a contradiction in its policy: its desire to deal with ISIS first and defer the challenge posed by the Assad regime for later. Unfortunately, we do not have that luxury. "We cannot pretend that moderate opposition forces in Syria will stop resisting a tyrant who has killed nearly 200,000 Syrians. Nor can we pretend that Assad will stop attacking moderate Syrian groups that remain committed to his ouster-especially when the United States and our partners still, correctly, share the same goal and will now be arming and training Assad's moderate opponents. The sooner the Administration wakes up to this reality the better. It must recognize that it is neither effective nor moral to train and equip thousands of Syrians to fight ISIS, but make no commitment to defend them from Assad's continued air strikes and barrel bombs. "Prior to last night's operation, President Obama threatened the Assad regime with military retaliation if it attacked U.S. and partner forces fighting ISIS in Syria. That threat was credible, and it worked. The President should now issue a similar threat to Assad: The air strikes and barrel bombs against our moderate opposition partners and civilians in Syria must stop, or else your air power will be destroyed. After last night's operation, no one can question our military capability to enforce this threat at limited risk to our personnel. The President must display the resolve that can make this threat credible. If he does not, our Syrian partners will have less incentive to join us in fighting ISIS, and Assad's wanton brutality will continue to create conditions in Syria that enable ISIS to grow stronger and more threatening." #####
09.23.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on President-elect Ashraf Ghani and Dr. Abdullah Abdullah agreeing to a national unity government in Afghanistan, and the need for conditions-based drawdown plan and commitment to residual force: "We commend President-elect Ashraf Ghani and Dr. Abdullah Abdullah for agreeing to a national unity government in Afghanistan, and thank Secretary of State John Kerry for his hard work to bring both sides together. We also commend the Afghan people for their patience with this process and commitment to a democratic future. It is now essential for the national unity government to take immediate steps to enhance its democratic legitimacy, without which stability and security in Afghanistan cannot endure. That means fulfilling the campaign pledges that led Afghans to vote in record numbers, especially better governance and fighting corruption. "We are confident that the new Afghan government can be, and wants to be, a close partner of the United States. Indeed, President-elect Ghani has said he intends to sign the Bilateral Security Agreement as one of his first acts. We strongly urge President Obama to replace his plan for unconditional withdrawal from Afghanistan with a conditions-based drawdown and a clear commitment to maintain a limited residual force. If the President repeats his mistakes from Iraq and withdraws all U.S. troops from Afghanistan based on a date certain on a calendar, we fear a similar failure will unfold in Afghanistan as we have seen Iraq: growing instability, harm to our partners, and direct threats to the United States." ###
09.19.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Chris Coons (D-Delaware), and Ben Cardin (D-Maryland), all members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, introduced legislation on Thursday to create innovative financing mechanisms, such as new development impact bonds, aimed at increasing private-sector investment in maternal and child health programs in developing countries. The Accelerating Action in Maternal and Child Health Act is an innovative concept centered on the notion that even a small early investment in the care of a mother or child will reduce healthcare costs over the long term. According to the World Health Organization, 6.6 million children under the age of 5 die each year from preventable or treatable causes, and more than 800 women die every day from complications during pregnancy and childbirth. The overwhelming majority of these deaths occur in the developing world, and countries in Africa have the highest burden. "Over the past two decades, child mortality has been reduced by nearly 50 percent and maternal mortality has been reduced by 40 percent, thanks in large part to United States Government action and intervention," Senator Graham said. "In the last three years, 24 priority countries - 10 of which are in Africa - have achieved an 8 percent reduction in under-5 mortality, saving 500,000 lives. This legislation is an innovative way to accelerate this trend." "Even after impressive progress in the quality of health care being offered to pregnant women, new mothers, and young children in some of the poorest parts of the world, it's clear that more help is needed," Senator Coons said. "We need to be investing more in USAID's remarkable public health work. America's foreign assistance needs to evolve and innovate to meet today's challenges and respect our nation's fiscal limitations. Innovative financing mechanisms like development bonds are a creative way to get the private sector more involved in global health and reduce the cost to taxpayers. This bill will help us help more young families survive and stay healthy." Senator Coons chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs. "Substantial U.S. investment in maternal and child health - both in the U.S. and around the globe - has saved millions of lives and delivered extraordinary results," Senator Cardin said. "In the 24 countries where USAID focuses on maternal and child health, we have reduced the number of preventable child and maternal deaths by half. But we cannot stop now. This bill ensures that our cost-effective and life-saving interventions can continue into the future." Senator Cardin chairs the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs. The Accelerating Action in Maternal and Child Health Act calls on USAID to establish a strategy to prevent maternal and child deaths in 24 priority countries in the developing world, and authorizes the design and establishment of innovative financing mechanisms. For example, USAID and private donors around the world would purchase the bonds with funds provided either to the host country or to the NGO administering the health program. Host governments or donors would pay the interest back on the bonds. As private-sector investment grows, the need for U.S. government investment would decline. "There is tremendous momentum on improving maternal, newborn, and child health worldwide, and we want to keep moving forward," said Mark Shriver, president of Save the Children Action Network. "Too many children die on the day of their birth and too many women's lives continue to be cut short every day from causes that are entirely preventable. It is clear we need to do more." According to the World Health Organization, the leading causes of maternal mortality in low-income countries are post-partum bleeding, infection, and hypertension. Amongst newborns, the leading causes are infections, premature birth, and asphyxia, and amongst children under age 5, the leading causes are respiratory infections (commonly from pneumonia), diarrhea, and malaria. Malnutrition is the underlying contributing factor in about 45 percent of all child deaths, making children more vulnerable to severe diseases. #####
09.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said this in response to Iraqi Prime Minister Haider al-Abadi saying there was no need for the United States or international coalition partners to send troops into Iraq to fight ISIL. "First, I'm disappointed to hear the Prime Minister currently does not believe American or international forces will be needed to fight ISIL in Iraq. I hope he will reconsider this decision in the days and weeks to come. "If the Prime Minister sticks with this position, I believe the chances of rolling back ISIL will be greatly diminished. It will also mean the war against ISIL will go on longer, more blood will be shed, and the chances of retaking lost territory captured by ISIL will decrease. "ISIL is a hardened enemy and I worry the Iraqi Prime Minister may be over-estimating the capability of the Iraqi military forces to degrade and destroy this global enemy. The Iraqi military is in shambles while the capability that American Special Forces provide is unmatched throughout the world. "Second, President Obama came into office committed to removing American troops from Iraq. Unfortunately, for our own national security interests, he was successful in that goal. Removing American troops from Iraq was a short-term political win for President Obama. But as we have now seen, it is proving to be a long-term national security loss for the United States. Today, the United States is currently seen, certainly in some Iraqi quarters, as a less than reliable ally. "In addition, how could the Prime Minister request ground troops after President Obama has publicly and repeatedly said he will not be sending them?" ######
09.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- The National Federation of Independent Business, the nation's leading small business association, today named U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) a Guardian of Small Business for his perfect 100 percent voting record on behalf of America's small-business owners in the 113th Congress. NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner praised Sen. Graham for "standing up for small business." In presenting the group's coveted Guardian of Small Business Award, Danner said, "Small-business owners are very politically active - paying close attention to how their lawmakers vote on issues and stand by those who stand for them." "The record shows that Sen. Graham is a true champion of small business, supporting key small-business votes in the 113th Congress," said Danner. "This award reflects our members' appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business." NFIB's "How Congress Voted," which serves as a report card for members of Congress, was also unveiled this week. The report presents key small-business votes and voting percentages for each lawmaker. The report is available: http://www.nfib.com/assets/HCV.pdf #####
09.17.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after speaking with the President of Liberia Ellen Johnson Sirleaf about combating the spread of Ebola. Graham is the top Republican on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. "Liberia is one of the United States' best friends on the African continent and, today, I spoke with President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf about the Ebola crisis plaguing her nation. "Ebola continues to do tremendous damage to the Liberian people and those in surrounding nations. President Sirleaf made it clear that she personally, along with the Liberian people, is truly appreciative of the recent decision by President Obama to send up to 3,000 American troops to help combat the spread of Ebola. The assistance and investment we are providing today will hopefully prevent a wider spreading of Ebola and allow us to contain this deadly outbreak. "As the ranking Republican on the Foreign Ops subcommittee, I support the deployment of United States forces, as well as funding, to try and contain this serious health care problem facing the African continent and the world at large. "Finally, I told President Sirleaf that the Liberian people, along with those in surrounding nations, are in the thoughts and prayers of many South Carolinians during these trying times." #####
09.10.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the President's proposed request for training members of the Syrian opposition. "There are risks associated with any decision, but today the biggest risk is to continue on the current path of doing nothing. ISIL now poses a direct threat to the American people and homeland and must be vanquished. "For over three years, brave people in Syria have been fighting against a brutal tyrant, Bashir al-Assad. Nearly 200,000 Syrians have lost their lives as Assad has unleashed his military on his own people. For three years, I have been calling to provide critical military assistance to the Free Syrian Army (FSA) to stop the siege. Unfortunately, for three years, the President has rejected this strategy and Syria has descended further into chaos. Seizing an opportunity, ISIL reconstituted itself from a diminished terrorist group in Iraq to become the largest, most well organized terrorist group on the planet, now headquartered in Syria. The ideal time to support the FSA was three years ago, at a time when it would have had the most return on investment. "It's clear to me the vast majority of Syrians don't like Assad and sure don't want to live under the thumb of ISIL. It's in our interests to support these Syrian opposition forces in their cause of defeating the ISIL terrorists who are reigning terror on them. "Therefore, if he makes the request tonight, I plan to support President Obama's decision to allow the Department of Defense to take over training of the Syrian opposition in place of the CIA. I will also support funding requests for training and arming the Syrian opposition to enhance our chances of success. "Someone has to fight ISIL inside of Syria to keep America safe. It is my hope that the House and Senate will support this request and provide the authorities and funding necessary to enhance our chances of success. "If we do not engage ISIL, the chances of being attacked here at home dramatically increase and I'd rather have willing Syrians do the fighting than have America go it alone." #####
09.08.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Russia-Ukraine cease-fire and President Obama's assertion that the cease-fire is a result of applied and future sanctions. "President Obama is wrong to say the cease-fire is a result of crippling sanctions and the threat of future sanctions. "Mr. President, make no mistake the cease-fire is a result of the Ukrainians being overwhelmed by Russian forces and abandoned by your administration. This type of political spin, or simple lack of understanding of how real-world situations unfold, is President Obama's biggest problem when it comes to inspiring confidence in his foreign policy. "The Obama Administration would not provide the Ukrainian government the weapons it needed to continue the fight. The Ukrainian military went from winning to being outmatched in a matter of days by the Russian invasion. "Unfortunately, the Obama Administration and our NATO allies sold Ukraine out. Putin is winning, we are losing." #####
09.02.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the reported execution of another American journalist, Steven Sotloff. "Our hearts and prayers go out to the family of Mr. Sotloff and all those who have suffered under ISIL's barbaric behavior. "However, condemnation is not enough to deal with this scourge. It is time we act decisively against ISIL wherever it resides. Whenever American air power has been employed, in coordination with reliable partners on the ground, ISIL has been devastated. It's a tactic that should be aggressively pursued both in Syria and Iraq. "Mr. President, if you can't come up with a strategy, at least tell us what the goal is regarding ISIL." #####
08.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced bipartisan legislation with Senator Chris Coons (D-Delaware) to help schools strengthen their engineering programs to meet the growing demands of 21st century manufacturing. The bill would designate 25 universities as ‘Manufacturing Universities' and provide incentives to better align educational offerings with the needs of modern manufacturers. The incentives would be used to revamp universities' engineering programs to focus on manufacturing engineering and curricula specifically related to targeted industries. "This is an incredibly important issue for our states' institutions of higher education and manufacturing industries," said Senator Graham. "I look forward to working with Senator Coons to explore additional innovative ways to create opportunities for our manufacturing sector to thrive." The Manufacturing Universities Act of 2014 would establish a program within the Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) charged with designating 25 schools as ‘Manufacturing Universities.' Designated schools would receive $5 million per year for four years to meet specific goals, including focusing engineering programs on manufacturing, building new partnerships with manufacturing firms, growing training opportunities, and fostering manufacturing entrepreneurship. The program would be run by the Director of the NIST, in coordination with the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, and the Director of the National Science Foundation, among others. "The Manufacturing Universities Act recognizes the critical role that research universities can play in sustaining and growing the manufacturing industry sector, which is also one of South Carolina's leading employers," said Dr. James P. Clements, President of Clemson University. "We at Clemson University are excited about the opportunities this legislation could create to expand our existing initiatives in advanced manufacturing workforce development and university-industry research collaborations." "I want to thank Senators Graham and Coons for their leadership in recognizing the critical role research universities play in the development of the American workforce and our future economic prosperity," said Harris Pastides, President of the University of South Carolina. "The Council on Competitiveness has said that our country must foster innovation and rapid commercialization and has named manufacturing as a key initiative. At USC, we are responding to the call and leading the way with new initiatives like our Office of Economic Engagement and McNair Center for Aerospace Innovation and Research. We're committed to providing our students with the classroom and experiential learning opportunities to succeed in a high tech economy and engaging industry to understand and meet the needs of next-generation manufacturing. Federal support for closing the innovation deficit is crucial and the Manufacturing Universities Act can help ensure America's workforce remains the best educated and most competitive for generations to come." This bipartisan legislation has been endorsed by the Association of American Universities, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, Clemson University, the University of South Carolina, the University of Delaware, Delaware State University, the University of Illinois, the University of Missouri, the University of Pennsylvania, Temple University, Drexel University, DOW Chemical, and DuPont. #####
08.12.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Chris Coons (D-Del.) have introduced bipartisan legislation to help schools strengthen their engineering programs to meet the growing demands of 21st century manufacturing. The bill would designate 25 universities as ‘Manufacturing Universities' and provide incentives to better align educational offerings with the needs of modern manufacturers. The incentives would be used to revamp universities' engineering programs to focus on manufacturing engineering and curricula specifically related to targeted industries. "This is an incredibly important issue for our states' institutions of higher education and manufacturing industries," said Senator Graham. "I look forward to working with Senator Coons to explore additional innovative ways to create opportunities for our manufacturing sector to thrive." "It's critical that our schools and universities equip students for success in manufacturing and contribute to the research and development that drives advanced manufacturing," said Senator Coons. "Although our economy has created over half a million manufacturing jobs over the last three years, hundreds of thousands remain unfilled because we don't have enough trained workers. We need our engineers to fill the growing demand for manufacturing workers and accelerate manufacturing's growth. This bipartisan bill would help us meet that challenge. By helping schools focus their engineering programs on advanced manufacturing skills, we can equip our next generation of engineers with the skills they need to thrive in the 21st century." The Manufacturing Universities Act of 2014 would establish a program within the Commerce Department's National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) charged with designating 25 schools as ‘Manufacturing Universities.' Designated schools would receive $5 million per year for four years to meet specific goals, including focusing engineering programs on manufacturing, building new partnerships with manufacturing firms, growing training opportunities, and fostering manufacturing entrepreneurship. The program would be run by the Director of the NIST, in coordination with the Secretaries of Defense and Energy, and the Director of the National Science Foundation, among others. "APLU applauds Senator Coons and Senator Graham for their leadership on manufacturing issues and for recognizing the potential of our nation's public research universities in contributing to the American manufacturing renaissance they envision," said Association of Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU) President Peter McPherson. "We strongly support this initiative as it helps pave the way for the advancement of high tech manufacturing efforts across the country." "The Dow Chemical Company supports S.2719, The Manufacturing Universities Act of 2014, sponsored by Senator Coons and Senator Graham," said Rob Vallentine, Director for STEM Education at Dow Chemical Company. "The bill is consistent with Dow's ongoing efforts to support and enhance manufacturing engineering programs at U.S. universities. We welcome the voices of Senator Coons and Senator Graham on this very important issue, and value their commitment to helping meet the workforce needs of American manufacturers." This bipartisan legislation has been endorsed by the Association of American Universities, the Association of Public and Land-grant Universities, the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, the University of Delaware, Delaware State University, Clemson University, the University of Illinois, the University of Missouri, the University of Pennsylvania, Temple University, Drexel University, DOW Chemical, and DuPont. ####
08.11.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after President Obama's address on ISIS and Iraq. "Yet another speech from President Obama without a strategy or vision to protect the homeland against an increasingly lethal ISIS threat. ISIS has repeatedly expressed its intent to kill Americans and they are gaining increased capability. President Obama should make it clear - ISIS is not just a threat to the Middle East, it is very much a threat to the American people and the homeland. "It's time we go on offense and hit ISIS where they reside. We need a sustained air campaign to slow momentum and diminish ISIS capability. "When it comes to Iraq, I agree with President Obama that the appointment of a new Iraqi Prime Minister is a step toward helping unify Iraq. I fear Prime Minister Maliki is simply incapable of bringing Sunni's back into a unified Iraqi government. It's time for him to go. A new prime minister at least creates the possibility Sunni Iraqi's will break from ISIS in Iraq. "However President Obama is wrong in believing that political reconciliation in Baghdad will address the threat posed to the region and us by ISIS. Disorder in Iraq is a threat, no doubt. But ISIS has goals and objectives which extend far beyond Baghdad. "From the American national security perspective, it is impossible to have a successful outcome in Iraq without hitting and diminishing ISIS. That seems to be a fact President Obama is incapable or unwilling to address." #####
07.30.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the announcement the Boeing 787-10 will be made exclusively in South Carolina. "Boeing's announcement to build the 787-10 series exclusively in South Carolina is great news for our state and a terrific vote of confidence in the South Carolina workforce," said Graham. "It will solidify Boeing's positon in South Carolina and continue to draw suppliers and jobs to our state." ####
07.30.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Dianne Feinstein (D-California), and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) have written Attorney General Eric Holder urging him to support their legislation to reverse the Justice Department's December 2011 reinterpretation of the 1961 Interstate Wire Act and restore its ban on Internet gambling. "Left on its own, the DOJ opinion could usher in the most fundamental change in gambling in our lifetimes by turning every smart phone, tablet, and personal computer in our country into a casino available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week," wrote the senators. "The FBI has warned it will open the door to money laundering and other criminal activity. And, it is bound to prey on children and society's most vulnerable. We note that a number of states are now considering authorizing Internet gambling, which poses a significant threat to states that have banned or limited gambling." "We have introduced legislation to restore the Act to the way it had been interpreted for the five decades preceding the DOJ opinion," continued the senators. "Since you have changed DOJ's interpretation of the Wire Act, opining that it only applies to sports-related betting, will you support the legislation we have introduced to respond to your re-interpretation of the statute?" ###### Full Text Below: The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder: In December 2011, the Department of Justice issued a legal opinion reversing 50 years of interpretation of the Wire Act. Lawyers there concluded the Act no longer bans gambling over the Internet as long as the betting is not on the outcome of a sporting event. Left on its own, the DOJ opinion could usher in the most fundamental change in gambling in our lifetimes by turning every smart phone, tablet, and personal computer in our country into a casino available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The FBI has warned it will open the door to money laundering and other criminal activity. And, it is bound to prey on children and society's most vulnerable. We note that a number of states are now considering authorizing Internet gambling, which poses a significant threat to states that have banned or limited gambling. We have introduced legislation to restore the Act to the way it had been interpreted for the five decades preceding the DOJ opinion. Since you have changed DOJ's interpretation of the Wire Act, opining that it only applies to sports-related betting, will you support the legislation we have introduced to respond to your re-interpretation of the statute? The clock is ticking. We must act before we find virtual casinos making gambling pervasive in our society, invading living rooms, bedrooms, and dorm rooms across the country; a result we know the DOJ does not want to see. We fully expect the Senate will act on our legislation this year, and it is our intent to do whatever we can to make that happen. With your help, and the backing of the DOJ, we are confident we can succeed in this effort. We look forward to working with you on this matter.
07.30.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 Washington - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Marco Rubio (R-FL), and Jeff Flake (R-AZ) today issued the following statement on Majority Leader Harry Reid's comments today regarding legislation to address the humanitarian crisis on the border: "Last year, we voted to pass immigration reform legislation through the United States Senate. While we continue to support the goals of comprehensive immigration reform, none of us would support - or have ever contemplated - including that bill or the DREAM Act in legislation urgently needed this year to address the current humanitarian crisis on our southern border. It is obvious that Majority Leader Reid's suggestion that the Senate could include comprehensive immigration reform in its border crisis bill is a blatant attempt to scuttle House Republicans' good-faith efforts to pass legislation addressing the issue this week. To be clear: Without our support - which he would not have - it would be impossible for Leader Reid to add comprehensive immigration reform or the DREAM Act to any border crisis bill this week. We encourage our colleagues in the House to move forward and pass legislation focused exclusively on addressing the current humanitarian crisis on the border, and finally test whether Democrats will work constructively with Republicans to solve this humanitarian crisis on our border, or play politics with an issue of urgent national importance." #####
07.24.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - With a four-month extension of Iran nuclear talks announced by the Obama administration last week, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), Marco Rubio (R-Fla.), John McCain (R-Ariz.) and James Risch (R-Idaho) introduced legislation today requiring congressional review of any final agreement with Iran. The bill also would prevent further extensions of the negotiations, strictly enforce Iran's compliance, and prevent implementation of a final agreement if a veto-proof majority of Congress disapproves of the deal. "Stopping Iran's nuclear ambitions through the P5+1 is the most important foreign policy decision in generations," said Graham. "The Iranians are pursuing a nuclear weapon, not peaceful nuclear power. The last thing the world needs is an agreement with Iran that allows them to maintain their nuclear breakout capability. This agreement should be sent to the Congress for review and Congress should have the ability to vote it down. Congress played a fundamental role in enacting sanctions against Iran and should have a say whether this agreement is strong enough to lift sanctions. President Obama felt he needed congressional approval to move forward in Syria and Congress should insist on being involved in any nuclear deal with Iran." "I strongly support vigorous diplomatic efforts to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran, but it must be clear that there will be no more extensions," said Corker, ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "Congress must weigh in on any final deal, ensure Iranian compliance is strictly enforced, and provide a backstop to prevent a bad deal from occurring. While this bill does not include new sanctions on Iran, it allows Congress to seek further sanctions if an acceptable final deal can't be reached." "I am more convinced than ever that these negotiations are unlikely to result in an agreement with Iran that prevents it from developing a nuclear weapon," said Rubio. "By unilaterally making major concessions to the Iranians, the administration is laying the groundwork for a very bad deal. It is essential that Congress have the opportunity to fully examine, debate and vote on any deal concluded with Iran. This issue is too important for U.S. national security for Congress' views to continue to be ignored." "We should seek every opportunity to try to stop Iran's nuclear weapons programs through diplomacy, but diplomacy cannot be an open-ended process that allows Iran to play for time while advancing its program and weakening sanctions," said McCain. "It must be clear that there will be consequences if Iran fails to reach an agreement or violates its obligations." "This important piece of legislation ensures Congress the opportunity to disapprove any nuclear agreement with Iran that does not contain airtight inspection and verification mechanisms," said Risch. "Additionally, if Iran at any time violates the terms of its nuclear agreements, this legislation rightly obligates the Obama administration to re-impose all previous sanctions and start over. Given Iran's history and bad faith on this issue, this legislation is absolutely necessary." The Iran Nuclear Negotiations Act of 2014 contains the following key provisions: • Congressional Review: The president must submit any comprehensive nuclear agreement with Iran to Congress within three days of concluding such an agreement. After a 15-day review period, Congress has another 15 days to introduce a joint resolution of disapproval, which would have expedited consideration in both the House and Senate. If the president fails to submit any final agreement to Congress or a joint resolution of disapproval is enacted into law, any sanctions that had been temporarily lifted would be re-imposed. • Making Sure Iran Doesn't Cheat: Within 10 days of the intelligence community receiving evidence that Iran has failed to comply with the terms of an agreement or cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the Director of National Intelligence must determine whether the information is credible and accurate and notify Congress. A determination that Iran has cheated would re-impose all sanctions that had been temporarily lifted. • No More Extensions: If the president does not submit a comprehensive final agreement to Congress, all sanctions relieved under the interim agreement would be immediately restored on November 28, 2014, four days after the end of the extension period. This allows the president to negotiate while ensuring the Iranians do not use the negotiations as a delaying tactic or a cover for advancing their program. ###
07.24.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Charles E. Schumer (D-New York) and Ben Cardin (D-Maryland) today wrote to President Obama about the negotiation of a cease-fire agreement in Israel. "Any cease fire should create a situation in which Israeli citizens no longer face the threat of brazen terrorist attacks," said the senators. "Israeli citizens have faced over 1800 rocket launches from Hamas since June. While Iron Dome has saved countless lives, over five million Israelis live in fear of incoming rockets fired indiscriminately from Gaza. Twenty-eight tunnels have been discovered by the IDF since the ground operation in Gaza began. Israel has an absolute right to defend its citizens and ensure the survival of the State of Israel. "The threats posed by Hamas rockets and tunnels whose only purpose is to kill and kidnap Israelis are intolerable, and Israel must be allowed to take any actions necessary to remove those threats. Any effort to broker a ceasefire agreement that does not eliminate those threats cannot be sustained in the long run and will leave Israel vulnerable to future attacks." ###### Full Text Below: President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC Dear Mr. President: We write to express our strong belief that any viable cease fire in Gaza must remove the threat to Israel posed by Hamas rockets and tunnels. Any cease fire should create a situation in which Israeli citizens no longer face the threat of brazen terrorist attacks. Israeli citizens have faced over 1800 rocket launches from Hamas since June. While Iron Dome has saved countless lives, over five million Israelis live in fear of incoming rockets fired indiscriminately from Gaza. Twenty-eight tunnels have been discovered by the IDF since the ground operation in Gaza began. Israel has an absolute right to defend its citizens and ensure the survival of the State of Israel. The threats posed by Hamas rockets and tunnels whose only purpose is to kill and kidnap Israelis are intolerable, and Israel must be allowed to take any actions necessary to remove those threats. Any effort to broker a ceasefire agreement that does not eliminate those threats cannot be sustained in the long run and will leave Israel vulnerable to future attacks. The Israeli military has taken great pains to avoid unnecessary civilian casualties. The IDF has used text messages, leaflet drops, phone calls, and other methods to clear out areas before attacks. The same cannot be said about Hamas. Their rockets have only one purpose: to kill as many innocent Israelis as possible. At the same time, they use their own civilians as human shields by placing missile launchers next to schools, hospitals, mosques, and private homes. The Hamas interior ministry has called on Gaza residents to ignore IDF warnings to get out of harm's way. The human toll in this crisis is tragic. Both Palestinian and Israeli civilians are dying because of the distorted priorities of the leaders of a terrorist organization whose primary goal is to destroy Israel. We must do everything possible to ensure they do not succeed.
07.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was pleased the Senate last night unanimously approved a resolution he introduced expressing support for Israel as it defends itself against unprovoked attacks from the Hamas terrorist organization. The resolution: • Reaffirms the United States' support for Israel's right to defend its citizens and ensure the survival of Israel; • Condemns the unprovoked rocket fire at Israel; • Calls on Hamas to immediately cease all rocket and other attacks against Israel; and • Calls on Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to dissolve the unity governing arrangement with Hamas and condemn the attacks on Israel. "Israel is under siege on multiple fronts," said Senator Lindsey Graham. "Hamas is a terrorist organization that has fired hundreds of rockets at Israel. This is truly an act of terrorism that needs to be condemned. "As the Prime Minister of Israel Benjamin Netanyahu said ‘The Israelis are using missiles to protect citizens. Hamas is using citizens to protect its missiles.' There is no moral equivalency between the parties. I'm very pleased the Senate spoke with one voice in condemning the barbaric actions of the terrorist organization Hamas and standing by America's best friend in the region, Israel." #####
07.17.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - South Carolina's U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott proposed hundreds of billions of dollars in federal spending cuts over the past year according to the National Taxpayers Union Foundation (NTUF). The NTUF recently released the results of a study which analyzed the fiscal impact of senators' legislative agendas. The study cross-referenced the cost and savings of legislation introduced in the Senate with each senator's sponsorship and co-sponsorship records. According to the NTUF report, Graham proposed $144 billion in net budget cuts while Scott supported $138 billion. #####
07.11.2014	WASHINGTON - South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley and U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott have written to congressional leaders in the House of Representatives and Senate expressing support for the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. "As elected officials from a state where thousands of hardworking families benefit from exports, we urge you to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im) before its charter expires this year," wrote Haley, Graham and Scott. "As the official export credit agency of the United States, Ex-Im is a vital export finance tool to the businesses in our state - at no cost to American taxpayers. "Ex-Im allows South Carolina businesses to compete globally on a level playing field. Without Ex-Im our local businesses would be forced into a global market with foreign competitors that receive extensive support from their own export credit programs. Allowing Ex-Im to expire will deliberately disadvantage American businesses and lead to increased unemployment." ##### Note: Copy of letter to congressional leaders is available online.
07.10.2014	Kevin bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), and Chuck Schumer (D-New York) today introduced a resolution expressing support for the State of Israel as it defends itself against unprovoked attacks from the Hamas terrorist organization. The resolution: • Reaffirms the United States' support for Israel's right to defend its citizens and ensure the survival of the State of Israel; • Condemns the unprovoked rocket fire at Israel; • Calls on Hamas to immediately cease all rocket and other attacks against Israel; and • Calls on Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas to dissolve the unity governing arrangement with Hamas and condemn the attacks on Israel. "The State of Israel is under siege on multiple fronts," said Senator Lindsey Graham. "Hamas is a terrorist organization that has fired hundreds of rockets at the State of Israel. This is truly an act of terrorism that needs to be condemned. I believe the Senate will speak with one voice in condemning the actions of the terrorist organization Hamas and standing by America's best friend in the region, the State of Israel. There is no moral equivalency between the self-defense actions of Israel and the barbaric actions of Hamas." "Israel has a right to self-defense in the face of indiscriminate violence and vicious attacks against civilian populations," said Senator Robert Menendez. "It is an appalling but often-used tactic by Hamas to launch rockets indiscriminately at Israeli population centers. Nobody should be surprised that a terrorist organization is once again resorting to terror to harm innocent Israelis, and exposing Palestinian civilians to danger while doing so. Hamas is a terrorist organization that rejects a two-state solution and celebrates the kidnapping and murder of innocent civilians; it cannot be a partner in a Palestinian unity government." "Israel is our closest and most reliable ally in the Middle East, and we stand with Israel and their right to defend themselves against terrorist organizations that deliberately target civilians," said Senator Ayotte. "Israel is entitled to take the steps necessary to protect itself from destructive rocket attacks from Hamas that are aimed at all Israeli civilians, regardless of their religion," said Senator Schumer. "This resolution supports Israel as it protects itself in a manner that values the safety of Palestinian civilians even as its own civilians face indiscriminate attacks from terrorists. It is time for Mahmoud Abbas to do the right thing and break ties with Hamas." #####
06.18.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Appropriations Energy & Water subcommittee, applauded the passage of its FY 2015 appropriations bill which contains funding for the Charleston Harbor Deepening Feasibility Study and design and construction of the Charleston Port. "This is a very good day for the Port of Charleston," said Graham, a member of the subcommittee. "I'm pleased my Republican and Democrat Senate colleagues understood the value of the Port of Charleston and fully funded the port even though the Corps of Engineers, as a whole, received a budget reduction. We also added language to the bill that will streamline moving from the study phase to the engineering and design phase of this project. I think this speaks volumes about the value of the Charleston Port to the state, region, and country as a whole." Graham noted the legislation contains $695,000 for continuing the Army Corps of Engineers feasibility study of deepening Charleston Harbor, $1.572 million for future harbor deepening construction, and $13.149 million for continued harbor operations and maintenance. Graham was an early and ardent advocate for deepening Charleston Harbor and has fought repeatedly to secure federal authorization and funding for the project. The legislation passed through subcommittee yesterday and is expected to pass the full committee this week. ####
06.17.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) announced the Senate Appropriations Energy & Water bill contains over $400 million for the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility at Savannah River Site. The legislation passed through subcommittee today and is expected to pass the full committee later this week. Graham, who is a member of the Senate Appropriations Energy and Water Subcommittee, has been a long-time supporter of the MOX program and worked to secure the funding. He noted several reasons the Senate legislation is notable: • Additional MOX Funding: The Energy and Water subcommittee appropriates $400 million for the MOX program. The Senate funding is $204 million above President Obama's budget request; • 'Cold-Standby' Option Dismissed: The subcommittee funding makes clear the money needs to be used for construction of the MOX facility and not place the facility in ‘cold standby.' The legislation is expected to be considered by the full Senate later this year. #######
06.03.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Palestinian Authority-Hamas unity government. "I'm extremely disappointed to hear that President Abbas, the leader of the Palestinian Authority, has decided to form a unity government with Hamas, a violent terrorist organization. This decision undercuts any hope of a viable peace process. "I do not believe it is in our national security interest to begin a dialogue with a government that includes a terrorist organization committed to the destruction of the state of Israel. "Secretary Kerry's statement that the Obama Administration will continue to work with this new government is very disturbing and inappropriate. I will be joining Democrats and Republicans in efforts to suspend all aid to the Palestinian Authority as long as they continue this unity government or until Hamas recognizes the state of Israel and rejects terrorism. "For our country to be supporting this new unity government sends the worst possible signal to terrorist organizations and is incredibly insensitive to the people of Israel." ####
06.02.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today wrote Senate Armed Services Committee Chairman Carl Levin and Ranking Member Jim Inhofe to request an immediate hearing on the exchange of five high-ranking Taliban leaders for the release of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl. Graham's letter is below. Dear Chairman Levin and Ranking Member Inhofe: I write today requesting an immediate hearing on the exchange of five high-ranking Taliban leaders for the release of Sergeant Bowe Bergdahl. While I appreciate an American was released from captivity, this decision by the Obama Administration has serious implications for our future national security. The five terrorists released were the hardest of the hard-core. They held positions of great importance within the hard-core anti-American Taliban, including the Chief of Staff of the Taliban Army and the Taliban Deputy Minister of Intelligence. They have American blood on their hands and surely as night follows day they will return to the fight. In effect, we released the "Taliban Dream Team." The United States is less safe because of these actions. I fear President Obama's decision will inevitably lead to more Americans being kidnapped and held hostage throughout the world. There are also questions about why the Administration failed to comply with the law. We need a thorough review of this decision and I urge you to hold a hearing on this matter as it has profound implications for our national security. With President Obama's announcement of a total withdrawal from Afghanistan by 2016 - basically canceling an insurance policy to protect our homeland - and now releasing five Taliban leaders, it's safe to say last week was a great week for the Taliban. Thank you for your consideration on this most important matter. ####
05.27.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement on President Obama's announcement on Afghanistan today, which includes withdrawing all U.S. troops from the country by the end of 2016: "The President's decision to set an arbitrary date for the full withdrawal of U.S. troops in Afghanistan is a monumental mistake and a triumph of politics over strategy. This is a short-sighted decision that will make it harder to end the war in Afghanistan responsibly. "The President came into office wanting to end the wars he inherited. But wars do not end just because politicians say so. The President appears to have learned nothing from the damage done by his previous withdrawal announcements in Afghanistan and his disastrous decision to withdraw all U.S. forces from Iraq. Today's announcement will embolden our enemies and discourage our partners in Afghanistan and the region. And regardless of anything the President says tomorrow at West Point, his decision on Afghanistan will fuel the growing perception worldwide that America is unreliable, distracted, and unwilling to lead. "The alternative was not war without end. It was a limited assistance mission to help the Afghan Security Forces preserve momentum on the battlefield and create conditions for a negotiated end to the conflict. The achievement of this goal, and the withdrawal of U.S. troops in Afghanistan, should be determined by conditions on the ground, not by the President's concern for his legacy. "All wars end. The question is how they end. The war in Iraq has ended in tragedy. And it is difficult to see how we can succeed in Afghanistan when the President tells our enemies that our troops will leave by a date certain whether they have achieved our goals or not." ###
05.22.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - Today, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) voted in support of and applauded the Senate Armed Services Committee's markup of the FY15 National Defense Authorization Act. At Senator Graham's request, this legislation contains important provisions that reverse the Obama Administration's reckless decision to put the MOX Fuel Fabrication at Savannah River Site (SRS) in ‘cold standy.' Graham, who is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has been a long-time supporter of the MOX program. He noted several reasons the Senate legislation is notable: • Additional MOX Funding: The Senate Armed Services Committee authorized $145 million more than President Obama requested in his budget (total $341 million); • ‘Cold-Standby' Option Dismissed: The Committee clearly states the money needs to be used for construction of the MOX facility and not place the facility in ‘cold standby.' "The Obama Administration's decision to suspend construction on the MOX facility is both ill-conceived and dangerous," said Graham. "The Senate Armed Services Committee took the first step in rejecting the Obama Administration's reckless efforts to put MOX in ‘cold standby.' "The Obama Administration refuses to face the reality there is no viable alternative to MOX," said Graham. "In 2000 we first signed an agreement with the Russians where we identified the MOX program as the disposition path for the 34 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium held by the U.S. in excess of our defense needs. The Russians have agreed to reduce their plutonium stockpile by the same amount. Now is not the time to change course on the MOX program and try to renegotiate anything with the Russians. "We are working in a collaborative way to reduce the life cycle cost of the MOX program," said Graham. "It is possible to reduce costs, but scrapping the MOX program is a non-starter." The legislation is expected to be considered by the full Senate later this year. #######
05.22.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said both the Charleston Harbor Deepening project and Georgetown Port will benefit from passage of the Water Resources Development Act. The legislation passed the Senate 91-7. It has already passed the House of Representatives and will now be sent to President Obama for his signature. "This is incredibly good news for both Charleston and Georgetown," said Graham. "We all know how important the Charleston Harbor deepening project is both to the local community and the entire state. The provisions we worked hard to include in this legislation will allow the Charleston Port to move from the study phase to the design and construction phase without interruption. This is another big step forward." Graham was an early and ardent advocate for deepening Charleston Harbor and has fought repeatedly to secure federal authorization and funding for the project. He noted the provisions included in the legislation: • Charleston Harbor deepening project can no longer be stalled for an indefinite period of time while waiting for the Congress to act (creates options for projects to move forward); • allows for federal reimbursement of construction and Operation & Maintenance costs under certain conditions; • changes eligibility for federal Operation & Maintenance funding from 45 to 50 feet; and • retains important language to help smaller, emerging harbors to more effectively compete for federal funding. "The Georgetown port will also benefit from the changes we made which will allow ports like Georgetown to aggressively compete for federal funding," said Graham. "Georgetown has different needs than Charleston and we addressed them in a manner which will help the local community be prepared to compete and win in the future." "Finally, I truly appreciate the work my friend and colleague, Senator Tim Scott, has done to move these projects forward," said Graham. "In the House, it was a team effort with the entire delegation supporting these critical provisions. The South Carolina delegation, House and Senate, worked together as a team and were able to deliver for the state. I'm proud of our work." ####
05.15.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released a letter signed by 37 Senators pressing for Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to establish a Senate Select Committee to investigate Benghazi. "In light of the recent decision by Speaker Boehner to form a Select Committee to investigate the Benghazi terrorist attacks, we ask you to reconsider your decision not to create a similar committee in the Senate," wrote the senators. "This approach would bridge jurisdictional gaps and allow us to better understand what happened. The American people, and especially the families of the fallen, deserve to know more." "The attacks on our compounds involved multiple parts of our government," wrote the senators. "The Department of State, Department of Defense, and several intelligence agencies were involved. While we appreciate the recent bipartisan review of the Benghazi terrorist attacks by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, which included both majority and minority views, unfortunately, Congressional oversight committee action has been largely confined to jurisdictional bounds. As a result, the committees only have a partial view of the facts." The Senators' letter is below. Dear Leader Reid: Since the terrorist attacks on our compounds in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012 that killed four brave Americans, there have been numerous hearings and requests for information by Congressional oversight committees. Congressional oversight is crucial to understanding what happened before, during, and after the attacks, so we can be sure we do everything in our power to prevent future attacks. The attacks on our compounds involved multiple parts of our government. The Department of State, Department of Defense, and several intelligence agencies were involved. While we appreciate the recent bi-partisan review of the Benghazi terrorist attacks by the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, which included both majority and minority views, unfortunately, Congressional oversight committee action has been largely confined to jurisdictional bounds. As a result, the committees only have a partial view of the facts. Equally important, last week's disclosure of an email from Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Communications Ben Rhodes dated September 14, 2012, serves as reminder that the investigation is far from complete. This email, highlighting the Administration's effort to shape the narrative, should have been provided to the appropriate oversight committee months ago, but sadly was released on April 18, 2014, only following a judicial order. The release of this document, almost 20 months after the attacks, illustrates why there is doubt in Congress that the Administration has provided all relevant information to the oversight committees. In light of the recent decision by Speaker Boehner to form a Select Committee to investigate the Benghazi terrorist attacks, we ask you to reconsider your decision not to create a similar committee in the Senate. This approach would bridge jurisdictional gaps and allow us to better understand what happened. The American people, and especially the families of the fallen, deserve to know more. We urge you to act now. #####
05.13.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - On the first anniversary of the conviction of Kermit Gosnell, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today pressed Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to allow a vote on legislation Graham introduced, S. 1670, The Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. Graham took to the Senate floor and made a unanimous consent request to bring his Pain Capable legislation, along with a competing measure, The Women's Health Care Protection Act, up for debate and votes. Democrats, who control the Senate, refused the request. Graham's legislation seeks to protect unborn babies at 5 months of pregnancy - more than halfway to term. The competing measure would effectively abolish all abortion-related regulations passed by states. "Senate Majority Leader Reid has shut down the Senate in unprecedented fashion," said Graham. "On the first anniversary of the Kermit Gosnell verdict, he should allow a vote on this important legislation. I'm confident there is bipartisan support for my bill and that is why Senator Reid is afraid to allow it to come up." Graham noted that the United States is one of just seven countries worldwide which permits elective abortion after 5 months, more than halfway through pregnancy (20 weeks post-fertilization). He also noted that science and technology have advanced tremendously since 1973 and that we now know that an unborn child at the twentieth week of pregnancy can feel pain. In fact, anesthesia is administered directly to unborn children in second trimester fetal surgery. "The Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is the new front in protecting the rights of the unborn," said Graham. "I'm very proud to be leading this charge and look forward to making the Senate vote on this important legislation." #####
05.06.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-9106 WASHINGTON - Senator Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), co-chairs of the Senate National Guard Caucus, are leading a bipartisan group of 19 senators in introducing the National Commission on the Future of the Army Act, to establish an independent panel that will be responsible for analyzing the major changes to the U.S. Army proposed in the President's budget. Leahy said, "The Army's budget for Fiscal Year 2015 puts us on a path to major, irreversible changes to Army capacity and capability that cannot be ignored by the Congress, particularly in the Reserve Component. Neither the Active nor the Reserve Component can be rebuilt cheaply, so as the Congress considers how best to approach the structure of our Army in order to retain the capability of the Total Army, it is essential we remain unbiased by requesting an independent review." Graham said, "The changes fundamentally alter what it means for the National Guard to be a combat reserve of the Army, and they would render the nation's operational reserve insufficient in its ability to retain gains in experience and readiness the reserve has achieved over a decade of deployment." The Commission legislation will allow several of the Army's proposed cost-avoidance measures to move forward, while permitting time for the Commission to study the major changes that have been proposed. In addition to tasking the Commission with considering overall size and force mix of the Army, the senators in the bill ask for an evaluation of force generation assumptions. Leahy added, "The policies put into place during 13 years of war are not the same as those that will be needed post-drawdown, and determining the right modifications is essential to planning for the use and structure of the Army of the next decade. We look forward to working with members on both sides of the aisle to ensure that we fund a balanced Army, and that we do not repeat past mistakes by needlessly discarding away the depth of our forces." As original cosponsors, the bill includes: Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) Senator Barbara A. Mikulski (D-MD) Senator Thad Cochran (R-MS) Senator Jon Tester (D-MT) Senator Lamar Alexander (R-TN) Senator Ron Wyden (D-WY) Senator James E. Risch (R-ID) Senator Christopher A. Coons (D-DE) Senator Mike Johanns (R-NE) Senator John E. Walsh (D-MT) Senator Mike Crapo (R-ID) Senator Joe Donnelly (D-IN) Senator Mike Lee (R-UT) Senator Edward J. Markey (D-MA) Senator Pat Roberts (R-KN) Senator Joe Manchin III (D-WV) Senator Chuck Grassley (R-IA) Senator Benjamin L. Cardin (D-MD) Comments Of Cosponsors Senator Mikulski: "I am pleased to be an original co-sponsor of Senator Leahy's and Senator Graham's National Commission on the Future of the Army Act. It is time for a national Commission on Army Force Structure to defend the Guard against budget cut attacks. I want the National Guard to have a seat at the table while the Army makes decisions on the National Guard's future fate in this more frugal fiscal environment. A robust National Guard means a more safe and secure Nation, protecting lives and livelihoods. The National Guard is always on the job protecting us at home and abroad whenever there is danger or disaster. That's why I'm standing sentry to support the men, women and families of the National Guard." Senator Tester: "Montanans serve our nation at some of the highest rates in the country. With more than a decade of deployment experience, our National Guard has been instrumental in protecting our state and our nation. We need to fully consider the value of the Army Guard as we adjust to future missions and make smart fiscal decisions. Our bill will do just that." Senator Risch: "I fully support an independent commission to review the Army's decision and make recommendations to Congress. Although a commission would force a pause in the decision process, a pause is better than a hasty move that could have negative implications on the National Guard and our nation's overall war-fighting ability." Senator Wyden: "In basketball, it pays to keep every player well-trained and ready to go at a moment's notice. But by trying to take the National Guard's attack helicopters, the Army sure seems like it's asking Congress to put the Guard on the bench. My colleagues and I are simply calling for an outside commission to conduct a full, independent review before the Army pushes ahead with such a controversial proposal." Senator Walsh: "As a 33-year veteran of the Montana National Guard I know firsthand how important our guard and reserve components are for our state and nation. This bill will take a close look into the proposed changes to the Army National Guard as we transition out of conflict. It is essential to the security of this country that we have strong citizen soldiers like those I served alongside in the Montana National Guard." Senator Crapo: "Our nation's budget challenges have forced the Army to consider restructuring its Army Aviation units. Many Idahoans have contacted me to express their concern that the Army's current proposals do not adequately consider the national security value and contribution of the Guard and Reserves. I share their view that this Commission is necessary to ensure that the Army's fiscal constraints do not compromise our military readiness and capability. Senator Donnelly: "As the Army begins to transition to a leaner force, it is critical that we find the appropriate balance between the active component and reserve component, including our National Guard, to protect our country and maintain the most effective military in the world. This bipartisan bill would allow for the Army and National Guard to make changes they need to stay on budget, while holding any major, irreversible cuts until we have the commission's input. We need to have the fullest picture possible before moving forward with force structure changes that would be very expensive to reverse." Senator Lee: "We all understand the enormous budgetary constraints that the Army is currently facing. There are tough decisions that have to be made, and everyone will have to share the burden. The decisions about the force mixture of the Army must be made in an informed, careful process and with all options weighed in a transparent and accountable fashion - it is too important to our national security to do otherwise. Active Army, Army National Guard, and Army Reserves are necessary components of our combat and combat support systems, and I believe this commission will provide a comprehensive analysis and thoughtful recommendations to Army and to Congress." Senator Markey: "Massachusetts cannot afford to reduce the readiness and effectiveness of the Massachusetts Army National Guard by eliminating 650 soldier positions as included in the Army budget request. We need an independent review of this request to ensure that the Massachusetts Army National Guard will be able to appropriately respond to emergencies and support its federal mission. The National Commission on the Future of the Army Act is essential for that to happen, and I commend Senators Leahy and Graham for their leadership." Senator Manchin: "As a former Governor, I know firsthand the incredible value of our National Guard," Senator Manchin said. "These dedicated men and women have performed admirably alongside active units not only throughout the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, but also in countless regions around the world. That is why I remain concerned that the Army's proposed cuts and modifications to the National Guard threaten to diminish their capabilities as a vital piece of America's combat reserve force. Our nation is facing tremendous budgetary pressures and I cannot accept that cutting our most efficient and cost effective fighting forces is the correct course of action. I believe that the Army's proposal does not account for the true value of the National Guard and emphasizes short-term gains. I support an unbiased examination by a commission, external to the Department of Defense, and I hope that a thorough investigation will provide clarity and strengthen the Army's combat power." Senator Roberts: "As a Marine, I stand in strong support of the men and women of the Kansas National Guard and believe an outside, independent Commission is in the best interest of our nation's security. It is imperative that the capabilities that make the National Guard a unique asset are preserved as all of our services face budget constraints and cuts." # # # # #
05.06.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-9106 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), John McCain (R-AZ), and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) released the following statement today regarding the A-10: "For the sake of our ground troops in future conflicts, Congress must include a provision in the fiscal year 2015 National Defense Authorization Act to prohibit the Air Force's divestment of the A-10. Putting the A-10s in type-1000 storage is not a compromise; it is a codification of the Air Force's short-sighted and dangerous proposal to divest their most combat-effective and cost-efficient close air support aircraft. Units will be stood-down, training will no longer occur, and crews will be re-assigned. "We are united in our belief that when we send our troops into harm's way, we have a solemn obligation to ensure they have the very best support possible so they can accomplish their missions and return home safely. While we recognize that the Air Force confronts difficult budget decisions, we believe prematurely divesting the A-10 would put our ground troops in serious additional danger in future conflicts. As the NDAA process moves forward, we will continue to look for the right offset that addresses this issue in a comprehensive way. "We know this is not the first time the Air Force has tried to divest the A-10. The Air Force tried to do so in the late 1980s, but the Department of Defense expressed concern that the Air Force had not ‘adequately emphasized the close air support mission...' Thank goodness the Air Force's effort was overturned-hundreds of Iraq and Afghanistan veterans are alive today because the Air Force's previous A-10 divestment efforts were defeated." ###
05.05.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement about the selection of Congressman Trey Gowdy (R-South Carolina) as head of the House Select Committee on Benghazi. "Trey Gowdy is the most capable person in the entire Congress to lead the Select Committee. He's a former prosecutor who is well-respected by his colleagues, tenacious in his approach to his duties, and fair-minded about his responsibilities. Trey is the right person at the right time." #####
05.05.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-9106 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the passing of former Congressman Butler Derrick. "In Washington, Butler Derrick rose through the ranks of Democratic politics to become a strong voice for his party in the U.S. House of Representatives. Closer to home, he was known for a very caring and effective constituent service operation which put the needs of his constituents first. "Butler was a good man and I will always be grateful for the assistance he provided to me in my transition to the U.S. House of Representatives. "Our thoughts and prayers are with his family during this time." #####
05.02.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today made this statement on news the House of Representatives will create a Select Committee to investigate Benghazi. "We applaud the decision of Speaker John Boehner to establish a Select Committee to investigate the events before, during, and after the terrorist attack in Benghazi, which killed four brave Americans on September 11, 2012. "We have called for a select committee since November 2012 and we are pleased that one will finally be established. The committees in both the Senate and the House that have held hearings have made an important contribution, but in light of the many remaining unanswered questions and the recent evidence that the administration has withheld critical information, it is clear that we need a Select Committee that can bring sustained focus across jurisdictions. "We call on Majority Leader Harry Reid to take similar action and to work with Speaker Boehner to make the Select Committee a joint effort between the House and Senate. We owe it to the families that lost their loved ones in the Benghazi attack to finally get to the truth." ####
05.02.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today wrote to President Obama asking him to confirm a statement made by former Communications Director for the National Security Council Tommy Vietor that President Obama was absent from the White House Situation Room during the Benghazi attacks. Text of the Graham-Ayotte-McCain letter is below: Dear Mr. President: Last night, the former Communications Director for the National Security Council, Tommy Vietor, stated that on the afternoon and night of September 11, 2012 -- while the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya was under attack -- that you never visited the White House Situation Room to monitor events. Over a year and a half has passed since the terrorist attacks, and the American people still do not have an accounting of your activities during the attack. Mr. President, can you now confirm that Mr. Vietor's account of your absence in the White House Situation Room is accurate? Thank you again for your attention to this matter. #####
04.29.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1419 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), and John McCain (R-Arizona) have written Senate Committee on Foreign Relations Chairman Robert Menendez and House Committee on Foreign Affairs Chairman Ed Royce urging their committees - as the committees of jurisdiction for the State Department - to hold hearings on the many unanswered questions that remain regarding the origin of the Benghazi talking points. "The recent testimony by former CIA Deputy Director Michael Morell in front of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, coupled with the previous release of more than one hundred pages of emails from the White House, has generated even more questions," wrote the Senators. "To begin with, how could former Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice, during the five Sunday talk shows on September 16, 2012, claim that the attacks on our compounds were caused by a hateful video when Mr. Morell testified that the CIA never mentioned the video as a causal factor and made no reference to the video in any of the multiple versions of the talking points? Was she briefed by the State Department or the White House that the video caused the attack? If so, who provided the brief? "During those five Sunday shows, Ambassador Rice also made erroneous claims about the high level of security at the Benghazi compound. In one instance she stated that "we had substantial security presence with our personnel." In another, she stated, "we obviously did have a strong security presence." Who informed Ambassador Rice about the level of security at the compound? Why did she make such claims that were clearly misrepresentations of the facts? "Ambassador Rice also falsely asserted that al Qaeda was decimated. Who briefed her about al Qaeda's activities in Libya? "Lastly, why was Ambassador Rice, someone who had no direct authority over operations in Libya, chosen to speak to the nation in the immediate aftermath of the attack in Benghazi? "If we are to avoid future terrorist attacks like the one in Benghazi, we must answer these and many other unanswered questions." The Senators' letter is below. Dear Chairman Royce and Chairman Menendez: On September 11, 2012, terrorists affiliated with al Qaeda attacked our diplomatic facility in Benghazi and took the lives of four brave Americans. In the 19 months since then, numerous committees have held hearings to better understand what happened before, during, and after the terrorist attack. We recognize and applaud your willingness to call on former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Deputy Secretary of State William Burns, and former Deputy Secretary of State Thomas Nides to testify. Yet, despite their testimony, important questions remain unanswered. The recent testimony by former CIA Deputy Director Michael Morell in front of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, coupled with the previous release of more than one hundred pages of emails from the White House, has generated even more questions. To begin with, how could former Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice, during the five Sunday talk shows on September 16, 2012, claim that the attacks on our compounds were caused by a hateful video when Mr. Morell testified that the CIA never mentioned the video as a causal factor and made no reference to the video in any of the multiple versions of the talking points? Was she briefed by the State Department or the White House that the video caused the attack? If so, who provided the brief? During those five Sunday shows, Ambassador Rice also made erroneous claims about the high level of security at the Benghazi compound. In one instance she stated that "we had substantial security presence with our personnel." In another, she stated "we obviously did have a strong security presence." Who informed Ambassador Rice about the level of security at the compound? Why did she make such claims that were clearly misrepresentations of the facts? Ambassador Rice also falsely asserted that al Qaeda was decimated. Who briefed her about al Qaeda's activities in Libya? Lastly, why was Ambassador Rice, someone who had no direct authority over operations in Libya, chosen to speak to the nation in the immediate aftermath of the attack in Benghazi? If we are to avoid future terrorist attacks like the one in Benghazi, we must answer these and many other unanswered questions. For that reason-absent a Joint Select Committee to investigate these questions across multiple jurisdictions-we ask that your committee, as the committee of jurisdiction for the State Department, hold additional hearings to answer these and other important questions. Thank you for your leadership on this important issue. ####
04.29.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the status of layoffs at the MOX facility at Savannah River Site (SRS). Graham, who has been outspoken in his opposition to the Obama Administration's planned decision to put the facility in ‘cold standby,' spoke with Secretary of Energy Dr. Ernest Moniz about the program last night. Graham has and continues to work with a bipartisan coalition of Senators and House members to support the MOX program to dispose of 34 metric tons of weapons-grade plutonium. Graham said: "Last night, I spoke with the Secretary of Energy who committed to continue construction of the MOX facility through the end of this fiscal year which ends September 30. "I thank the Secretary for reversing course. This is the right decision for the program, the Site, and the employees working on the program at SRS. "In the short term, this decision will save thousands of jobs. However, there is still a long, arduous fight ahead. The Secretary's announcement does not change the fact the President's FY15 budget submission to Congress places the MOX program in cold standby. "As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I will work to ensure the Obama Administration's FY15 budget request does not become a reality. "As a long-time supporter of the MOX program, I will continue to work with my colleagues in the Senate and House, Republican and Democrat, to push the MOX program forward." #####
04.24.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the announcement of the formation of a Hamas-Fatah unity government. "The recent decision by the Palestinian Authority to align themselves with Hamas is deeply disturbing on multiple fronts. Hamas is, by any rational definition, a terrorist organization. The decision by the Palestinian Authority to align with Hamas makes any future peace negotiations with Israel impossible. "This is a provocative act by the Palestinian Authority which runs counter to serious peace negotiations with Israel. It clearly demonstrates the Palestinians have little fear or respect for the Obama Administration. "I hope Congress will take a forceful stand against this decision." #####
04.09.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 Washington -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today held a press conference regarding unanswered questions still surrounding the September 11, 2012 attack on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi, Libya, some of which are listed below: • We do not know why, on the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack in American history, after multiple attacks on U.S. and Western interests in Libya, and with rising insecurity in countries across the Middle East, U.S. military units and assets in the region were not ready, alert, and positioned to respond in a timely fashion to what should have been a foreseeable emergency. • Outside of one call to the Israeli Prime Minister, we do not know what the President did or who else he was in contact with during the seven hours of the Benghazi attack. • We do not know why the President did not reach out to Libyan President Magariaf to request assistance during that period of time. • We do not know why the FBI reports and interviews of the U.S. personnel who were evacuated from Benghazi on September 12, 2012 - eyewitnesses who knew that there was never was a demonstration outside the U.S. Mission - were not shared in a timely way within the U.S. government. • We do not know whether this failure reflects obstacles that still exist to the free sharing of information across executive branch agencies, which was a key concern of the 9/11 Commission. • We do not know why the FBI has not released to Congress the FBI interviews of the Benghazi survivors. • We do not know whether the President was made aware of the classified cable that, according to published media reports, Ambassador Chris Stevens sent on August, 16, 2012, stating that the U.S. Mission in Benghazi could not survive a sustained assault from one or more of the threatening militia groups that were operating in eastern Libya. • We don't know why Secretary Clinton was never made aware of the August 16th cable. • We do not know whether the President's national security staff made him aware of the attacks on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi that occurred in April and June of 2012 of the assassination attempt on the British Ambassador in June 2012. • If the President was informed of these attacks, we do not know what actions, if any, he ordered to position the U.S. government more effectively for contingencies in Benghazi. • We do not know why the Administration did not do more to support and assist the new Libyan government that took power after the fall of Qaddafi, including in the establishment of civilian-led national security forces that operate under central government control, a counterterrorism force that is trained and equipped to combat Al Qaeda and its affiliates, national justice and prison systems, and effective control over the immense stockpiles of weapons and dangerous materials that exist across Libya. The result of this ‘light footprint' approach was that Al-Qaeda, its affiliated groups, and local militias were able to establish sanctuaries almost uncontested in the ungoverned spaces of eastern Libya. • We do not know why the State Department's Accountability Review Board (ARB)-which was under significant time pressure to complete its work, which issued a final report in just ten weeks, and which never conducted interviews with senior State Department officials, such as Secretary of State Hillary Clinton or Deputy Secretaries Nides and Burns, who had direct responsibility for decisions related to the poor security posture in Benghazi-is touted as complete and final. • We do not know why the ARB blamed systemic failures and leadership and management deficiencies within two bureaus, but downplayed the importance of decisions made at senior levels of the Department. • We do not know why repeated requests for additional security from Embassy Tripoli were ignored in Washington. • We do not know why the Administration failed to listen to firsthand reports, accounts, and interviews of U.S. personnel on the ground in Libya during the attack in Benghazi, including the CIA Chief of Station, who stated clearly that there had never been a demonstration at the Special Mission Compound in Benghazi and that the events of September 11, 2012 constituted a terrorist attack, and instead took the word of CIA analysts thousands of miles away. • We do not know why the State Department claims that the U.S. Special Mission Compound in Benghazi was only "temporary" when the Department, on July 8, 2012, renewed for one year the lease for Villa C of the compound and, on Jul 26, 2012, did the same for Villa B. We also do not know why the ARB failed to account for this in their report. • We do not know why, even though on September 18, 2012, the FBI and CIA reviewed the closed circuit television video from the compound that showed there were no protests prior to the attacks, the Administration continued to insist that a protest preceded the terrorist attack. • We do not know why, on September 25, 2012, President Obama, while on the television show "The View," continued to refuse to acknowledge the fact that the attack was an act of terrorism and instead answered, "We're still doing an investigation." • We do not know why, 19 months following the attacks on our compounds in Benghazi, not a single person has been held accountable for the attacks. • We do not know why CNN, Reuters, and the Times of London can interview the suspects of the attacks, but the most powerful country in the world cannot-or will not-do so or otherwise take actions to hold accountable those responsible for the attacks. ###
04.04.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Hamid Aboutalebi who was selected to serve as Iran's emissary to the United Nations in New York. Graham opposes granting Aboutalebi a visa which would allow him to travel to the United States. Graham said: "This is a slap in the face to the 52 Americans held hostage in Iran for 444 days and an affront to all Americans. "The very idea Iran would appoint someone to represent them at the United Nations in New York -- who was connected in such a direct way to the American Embassy takeover in 1979 -- says a lot about the regime and the so-called moderation of President Rouhani. "Iran has been involved in worldwide terrorism plots and designated as a state sponsor of terrorism. Iran provided equipment used to kill American soldiers in Iraq. Iran supports Hamas and Hezbolloah, two terrorist organizations. And finally, Iran continues its pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability, not a peaceful nuclear power plant. "I'm hopeful the Senate will soon send a strong signal to Iranians that we will not accept this individual or allow him to represent Iran on American soil." #####
04.01.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today questioned Anne M. Harrington, the Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation National Nuclear Security Administration Department of Energy (DOE) about the MOX facility at Savannah River Site (SRS). Graham called the actions of DOE "irresponsible" and "reckless." WATCH: http://bit.ly/1i181ui #####
03.27.2014	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to news 17 Democratic members of the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee have asked for an end to investigating the Benghazi attacks (http://politi.co/1dQDApD). "I wish Democrats would show some interest in how and why President Obama and Susan Rice got it so wrong about the true nature of the Benghazi attack. I wish Democrats would show a little interest about why Secretary Clinton was clueless about the multiple security requests coming from Benghazi and how she allowed our mission to become a death trap. I wish Democrats would show a little interest in finding out whether Mike Morell, the former #2 at the CIA, lied to Congress and the American people about a protest that never happened. Democrats seem to be more interested in protecting the Obama Administration than they are in getting the truth. "If Republicans win a Senate majority in 2014, one of the first things I will insist on is hearings that actually get to the bottom of what happened before, during, and after the Benghazi attack. The families of those who lost loved ones, and the American people, deserve nothing less than a full accounting." ####
03.26.2014	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Congressman Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah) today introduced their bipartisan legislation, Restoration of America's Wire Act, which restores the long-standing interpretation of the Wire Act and reverses the Department of Justice's abrupt December 2011 decision to expand online gaming. "This is yet another example of the Holder Justice Department and Obama Administration ignoring the law," said Graham, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. "In 1999, South Carolina outlawed video poker and removed over 33,000 video poker machines from within its borders. Now, because of the Obama Administration's decision, virtually any cell phone or computer can again become a video poker machine. It's simply not right." "The DOJ opened the door for massive change in policy without significant public input. These fundamental changes need to go through Congress. By restoring the original interpretation of the Wire Act, we are putting the genie back in the bottle and allowing for an open debate to take place," said Chaffetz. On February 4th of this year, Attorneys General from 16 states and territories wrote to Congress asking, "that Congress restore the decades-long interpretation of the Wire Act to allow Congress and the states to more fully consider the public policy ramifications of the DOJ's reinterpretation of the Wire Act and to give federal and state law enforcement agencies time to fully assess and report on the implications Internet gambling has on our respective charges to protect the citizens of our states." (Letter: http://bit.ly/1l4n2Qh) Earlier this week the Governors of Texas and South Carolina also wrote to Congress expressing concerns about the Department of Justice's decision. Texas Governor Rick Perry wrote, "When gambling occurs in the virtual world, the ability of states to determine whether the activity should be available to its citizens and under what conditions - and to control the activity accordingly - is left subject to the vagaries of the technological marketplace. This seriously compromises the ability of states to control gambling within their borders." (Letter: http://bit.ly/1ha5nG6) South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley said, "Allowing Internet gaming to invade the homes of every American family, and to be piped into our dens, living rooms, workplaces, and even our kids' bedrooms and dorm rooms, is a major decision. We must carefully examine the short and long-term social and economic consequences before Internet gambling spreads." (Letter: http://bit.ly/1m6jGMq) The legislation is cosponsored in the Senate by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-California), Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire). The legislation is cosponsored in the House of Representatives by Reps. Tulsi Gabbard (D - Hawaii), Jim Matheson (D - Utah), Lamar Smith (R - Texas), Jim Jordan (R - Ohio), Trent Franks (R - Arizona), George Holding (R - North Carolina), Frank Wolf (R - Virginia), James Lankford (R - Oklahoma), and Emanuel Cleaver (D - Missouri). #### QUOTES FROM BILL SPONSORS: U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-California): "I am pleased to join with Senator Graham to update the Wire Act to cover a broad range of online gambling, returning the statute to its pre-2011 interpretation," said Senator Feinstein. "Many online gambling sites fail to screen for underage gamblers, do nothing to prevent money laundering and offer no recourse for fraud or other criminal acts. For most Americans, including children, gambling sites are only a few clicks away, and I believe Congress has a responsibility to prevent abuses from occurring." U.S. Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire): "With the stroke of a pen, the Justice Department in 2011 reversed decades of interpretation of the Wire Act - going around Congress and defying the plain text of the law. Since then, the Internet has become the ‘Wild West' of gambling, which presents a significant problem for law enforcement when it comes to shutting down illegal activity related to online gaming," said Senator Ayotte, who worked extensively on gambling issues during her time as New Hampshire's Attorney General. "This legislation restores the Wire Act so that there is authority to address crime that occurs with regard to Internet gambling, and the bill includes a provision to preserve the ability of traditional retail lottery sales by brick and mortar stores." Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-Hawaii): "Congress must fulfill its responsibility to debate this issue about how we approach online gaming regulations as a country. Until that debate occurs, we must restore the long-held interpretation of the Wire Act which bans online gaming. There are many concerns that have been raised by the FBI and state attorneys general, with regard to abuse and money laundering. The Internet Gambling Control Act of 2014 will restore protections against criminal activity and misuse of online gaming platforms to pre-2011 interpretation of the law. This affects states like Hawaii directly that prohibit any kind of gambling." OUTSIDE GROUPS LETTERS OF SUPPORT: http://www.scribd.com/doc/214705590/Restoration-of-America-s-Wire-Act-Letter-of-Support BACKGROUND ON RESTORATION OF THE WIRE ACT Why is the Legislation Needed? • On December 23, 2011, the Department of Justice published an opinion that reversed the long-standing interpretation that the Wire Act banned all forms of Internet gambling. • The Department of Justice found that the Wire Act only banned online sports betting. This decision opens the door to online gambling in states which previously have not allowed some forms of gaming. • In the aftermath 3 states are currently offering some type of online gaming, and up to 10 additional states are currently considering doing the same. • Courts have split on the legality of the Department of Justice's rulings. The 5th Circuit Court of Appeals has said the Wire Act only applies to sports betting while district level courts have said the Wire Act applies to all online gambling. The issue has not been before the Supreme Court. What the Legislation Does • The Graham-Chaffetz legislation simply returns the Wire Act to where it was in 2011 before the Department of Justice reinterpreted the long-standing statute. • Traditional, retail store lottery sales will not be affected. • Gaming establishments, in states where gaming was legal prior to 2011, will not be affected.
03.13.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was joined by six Senate colleagues in a bipartisan letter to U.S. Secretary of Energy Ernest Moniz expressing their concern the President's budget request was inadequate and would do serious damage to the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication project at Savannah River Site. The letter was signed by South Carolina Senator Tim Scott along with Senators Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Kay Hagan (D-North Carolina), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), and Mary Landrieu (D-Louisiana). "The President's budget request funds the plutonium disposition program at a level that would place the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication project in cold standby," wrote the senators. "The $221 million request is significantly lower than what is needed to maintain on-going operations and construction for MOX, will force major layoffs, and threaten the viability of the only congressionally authorized disposition path for weapons grade plutonium. It is our understanding that the Department of Energy (DOE) is planning to use FY2014 funds to begin this process. This would be inappropriate and we discourage this in the strongest possible terms." The senator's letter is below and attached: Dear Secretary Moniz: The President's budget request funds the plutonium disposition program at a level that would place the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication project in cold standby. The $221 million request is significantly lower than what is needed to maintain on-going operations and construction for MOX, will force major layoffs, and threaten the viability of the only congressionally authorized disposition path for weapons grade plutonium. It is our understanding that the Department of Energy (DOE) is planning to use FY2014 funds to begin this process. This would be inappropriate and we discourage this in the strongest possible terms. Under both the FY2014 National Defense Authorization Act and the FY2014 Consolidated Appropriations Act, funding is provided for construction activities at the MOX facility. No funds are provided to put the program in cold standby. While we share your concerns regarding the increased costs associated with the plutonium disposition program, we are concerned that the budget request will end up adding to the costs while we still try to consider options regarding the program. As such, to not foreclose options and drive costs, it is our opinion that construction activities continue until the Department of Energy (DOE) receives further guidance through the legislative process. Further, the budget submission claims the "Administration remains committed to the U.S.-Russia Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement." We remind you that under the terms of this agreement, MOX is the only acceptable disposition path for the 34 metric tons of American weapons grade plutonium. If the Administration does remain committed to this agreement, it does not make sense to stop construction of this facility at this time. We look forward to working with you to ensure that there is a path forward for this important program and look forward to your response. ####
03.06.2014	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) today made this statement on latest events in Ukraine. Graham and Ayotte are members of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "The Administration's decision to bolster NATO's Baltic Air Policing mission by sending additional troops and F-15s, along with refueling capabilities, to eastern Europe is a step in the right direction. Further, the Administration's decision to use an Executive Order to deny visas to those responsible for the attempted annexation of Ukraine is a positive step. We believe these actions should have been taken earlier, but better late than never. "We strongly encourage the Administration to move forward with plans to freeze the assets of those responsible for the Russian invasion of Crimea and move to suspend Russia's membership in the G-8 and the G-20. The Administration should also work with our partners to hold the G-7 outside of Russia and to ensure Putin is not invited. "We fear that the Russians are engineering a fraudulent election in Crimea in a transparent attempt to legitimize Russia's violation of Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity. "The Russian invasion of Crimea is a clear violation of the 1994 agreement between Russia and Ukraine where Ukraine turned over all nuclear weapons to Russia in return for Russia agreeing to honor all territorial sovereignty. "While we understand Russia has real interests in Ukraine, Russia's actions in Crimea amount to a blatant disregard for international law and Russia's prior commitments. If Putin's actions in Crimea are permitted, it will set a dangerous global precedent that will damage international stability and U.S. national security interests. The U.S., working with our international partners, must make clear that Putin will incur increasingly severe diplomatic and economic consequences if he does not end his aggression in Ukraine. "Putin is not the only one watching to see how America and our allies respond. Iran, Syria, North Korea, and others are watching. The outcome in Crimea will have far-reaching consequences for U.S. national security." ####
03.04.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Obama's budget submission to Congress as it relates to MOX. "This cannot stand. Make no mistake about it, President Obama's budget submission to Congress is both irresponsible and reckless. His decision to dramatically reduce funding for the MOX program to a point that raises serious questions about its viability represents a fundamental breach of trust with the residents of South Carolina. "I will be working with the Department of Energy and members of the Senate Appropriations Committee to address this injustice." ####
02.28.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Benghazi. "I'm pleased to hear that House Intelligence Committee Chairman Mike Rogers is going to follow up on what appears to be major inconsistencies in former CIA Deputy Director Mike Morell's testimony. However, before calling him to testify, I strongly encourage the House and Senate leadership to establish a joint select committee to investigate this matter. "For too long we have had various House and Senate committees, along with the State Department's Accountability Review Board (ARB), investigating the small pieces of Benghazi within their jurisdictions. These are sometimes disjointed and do not always allow for a full and thorough investigation. "A joint select committee is the best means to ensure Benghazi is fully investigated and all questions are answered once and for all. The American people, and most importantly, the families of the four Americans who died in the attack, deserve nothing less. "As for Mr. Morell, he has publicly stated he welcomes the opportunity to testify in an open hearing. To ensure proper accountability, I believe we need to declassify his previous testimony and release all communications - written, recorded, audio, and video -- involving Mr. Morell's discussions about the talking points and the role he played in this entire episode. "Mr. Morell, in a written statement, as well as Susan Rice in her appearance last week on television, both indicated the Administration provided the best evidence available to the public on September 16, 2012. It's now time to declassify all the communications regarding the attack on our compounds in Benghazi so we can properly account for these statements. "Finally, I strongly believe it will be impossible to close the books on what happened in Benghazi unless Susan Rice is called to testify before Congress about the role she played. Although she has appeared on television shows, she has never been required to appear before Congress to answer questions about Benghazi. "The President has said on numerous occasions that as more information is made available he would share it with the public. This statement has not borne fruit. "It's past time we clear the air on Benghazi by declassifying all relevant information and having all witnesses testify. We have learned much over the past 17 months about Benghazi that justifies recalling Mr. Morell, General Petraeus, former Secretary of State Clinton, Ambassador Susan Rice and others before a joint select committee of Congress." ####
02.25.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Washington -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and John McCain (R-AZ) today released the following statement on the Obama Administration's defense budget proposal outlined yesterday by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel: "The proposed defense cuts outlined by Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel yesterday will weaken our nation's security while the threats we face around the world are becoming more dangerous and complex. Now is not the time to embrace a defense posture reminiscent of the years prior to World War II, which left us unprepared to face gathering global threats. "As Director of National Intelligence James Clapper grimly described recently, ‘[L]ooking back over my more than half a century in intelligence, I have not experienced a time when we have been beset by more crises and threats around the globe.' With governments weakened by political instability and al-Qaeda- affiliated groups empowered from Mali and Nigeria to the Horn of Africa and South Asia, it is true that the world is more dangerous than at any time in recent history. And, as top Administration officials, including Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson recently observed, threats in some of these areas put our allies at risk and increasingly even the U.S. homeland. At the center of this growing threat is the conflict in Syria, which is destabilizing the Middle East and increasingly poses a direct threat to the West. "In the heart of Iraq, the black flags of al Qaeda flew just last month over the city of Fallujah. Just this week, Taliban fighters overran an Afghan Army base in eastern Afghanistan. The turmoil in Ukraine and Russia's continued bullying of its neighbors have reignited dormant animosities in Eastern Europe. U.S. and international efforts have failed to meaningfully check Iran's nuclear ambitions. China continues its provocative behavior towards its American-allied neighbors, raising tensions across East Asia. Even in our own hemisphere, security challenges including instability in Venezuela and transnational drug cartels threaten U.S. interests. "So how does the President respond to these threats? By requesting cuts that would dramatically reduce the size of the Army to pre-World War II levels; eliminate whole fleets of proven aircraft without reliable alternatives; cause more than a dozen major warships to be removed from operational service; all while seeking reductions in military compensation and benefits. We look forward to the Armed Services Committee's reviewing these items thoroughly throughout the rest of the year. "Remarkably, we are also learning that the budget request, to be released next week, cuts the Department of Defense while including billions of dollars in new spending for scores of duplicative and wasteful domestic government programs. "We are deeply concerned that the policy of austerity will be limited to our national security at a time when what we need most is a Commander-in-Chief willing to lead in a dangerous world and a strong military posture that supports our interests and our allies. If Congress allows the President to continue cutting the defense budget at the pace and depth he proposes, we will have provided neither." ###
02.07.2014	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Fourth District Congressman Trey Gowdy today pushed legislation which gives states the ability to ‘Opt-Out' of the major provisions of Obamacare. The legislation, The State Health Care Choice Act, is sponsored in the Senate by Senators Graham, John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and Tim Scott (R-South Carolina). In the House of Representatives the legislation is sponsored by Congressman Gowdy and South Carolina Fifth District Congressman Mick Mulvaney. "Our legislation gives the people of South Carolina a chance to have their say about Obamacare," said Graham. "Many Americans are tired of being run over by the Obamacare ‘we know best' train. If a state wants to stay in Obamacare, let them be our guest. But I think the overwhelming feeling is that South Carolinians want out." "States are apparently allowed to opt out of immigration laws and drug laws, so why not the Affordable Care Act?" said Gowdy. "This is a law riddled with broken promises, and it's not working for South Carolina. If you like your health insurance, you can't keep it. If you like your doctor, you can't keep him or her either. And if you like your job, you may not be able to keep it, or your hours." The State Health Care Choice Act will allow states to ‘opt?out' of the major mandates included in Obama health care. Among the mandates: • Individual mandate - requirement to buy government?approved health insurance coupled with financial penalty for not doing so. • Employer mandate - requirement for businesses to provide government?approved health insurance coupled with financial penalties for not doing so. • Benefit mandates - define what qualifies as a health plan as well as new federal requirements for regulating health insurance. "Our bill would allow a state like South Carolina the option to opt-out of the ACA's mandates, while giving each state the flexibility to decide," said Gowdy. "We have heard from our constituents who are struggling under the ACA. We should give them the chance to get out from under the thumb of Washington and this unworkable law." "The option to opt-out is long overdue," continued Graham. "People outside Washington need to have their say about Obamacare. They shouldn't be held hostage by this terrible legislation. Our opt-out legislation actually lives up to President Obama's famous promise that if you like your health care you can keep it. Mr. President, we don't like Obamacare and we don't want to keep it. Allow us to opt-out." ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS SOUTH CAROLINA GOVERNOR NIKKI HALEY: "If South Carolina could opt out of Obamacare, our economy and our health care would be far better off. I could not be more proud of our federal delegation for standing up against the Obamacare disaster." UNITED STATES SENATOR TIM SCOTT: "Obamacare is bad for our families, bad for our workers, and bad for our economy. South Carolinians know that it's full of broken promises and want a new direction for our state. I believe there's a better way forward and this bill will let us put Obamacare behind us in favor of solutions that actually lower the cost of healthcare and let people keep their coverage." SOUTH CAROLINA FIFTH DISTRICT REPRESENTATIVE MICK MULVANEY: "My colleagues and I have worked hard to repeal Obamacare over the past several years. We've been unsuccessful because the simple truth is Republicans only have one House. The Senate is not going to pass a bill that repeals Obamacare. We've been telling folks for years that this law is going to be a disaster, and our fears have come to fruition. The botched rollout of Obamacare was a tell-tell sign of what's to come for our healthcare. I've worked with Senator Graham and Congressman Gowdy on this bill that would allow states to do what's best for their own citizens, and choose whether to stay in Obamacare or opt out. "If California wants Obamacare, that's okay. If South Carolina wants out of Obamacare, that's okay, too. Let's move the power away from the federal government and back to the states." ##### STATE HEALTH CARE CHOICE ACT Congressional Sponsors United States Senate - Lindsey Graham, John Barrasso, Kelly Ayotte and Tim Scott United States House of Representatives - Mick Mulvaney and Trey Gowdy Summary The State Health Care Choice Act will allow states to ‘opt?out' of the major mandates included in Obama health care. Among the mandates: • Individual mandate - requirement to buy government?approved health insurance coupled with financial penalty for not doing so. • Employer mandate - requirement for businesses to provide government?approved health insurance coupled with financial penalties for not doing so. • Benefit mandates - define what qualifies as a health plan as well as new federal requirements for regulating health insurance. Why do we need the State Health Care Choice Act? • The Obama Administration has already delayed the employer mandate for one year. If the Administration can delay the mandate for large businesses, why don't American families deserve the same treatment? • The insurance offered under Obamacare is a ‘one-size fits all' model. States should be given the option to lower insurance premiums for their citizens and offer various insurance plans which better meet the need of their residents. • The economy continues to stagnate because businesses are fearful about the impact of the health care law on their bottom lines. • The State Health Care Choice Act allows states to give businesses and individuals certainty so they can get the economy moving. • The State Health Care Choice Act would formalize the procedures for states seeking to gain relief from the new mandates included in the Obama health care plan.
02.06.2014	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Washington - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today wrote President Obama requesting he answer additional questions regarding the September 11, 2012 terrorist attack in Benghazi that were raised in his recent interview with Fox News' Bill O'Reilly. "We watched with great interest your recent interview with Bill O'Reilly. Unfortunately, we believe the interview raises more questions than it answers regarding the September 11, 2012, terrorist attack in Benghazi that resulted in the death of four Americans. The American people and their representatives in Congress deserve to know the truth regarding what happened before, during, and after the terrorist attack. For that reason, we ask that you help clarify some of the questions raised by your interview." The senators' letter is below: Dear President Obama, We watched with great interest your recent interview with Bill O'Reilly. Unfortunately, we believe the interview raises more questions than it answers regarding the September 11, 2012, terrorist attack in Benghazi that resulted in the death of four Americans. The American people and their representatives in Congress deserve to know the truth regarding what happened before, during, and after the terrorist attack. For that reason, we ask that you help clarify some of the questions raised by your interview. First, in your interview with O'Reilly, you said, "In the aftermath what became clear was that the security was lax, that not all the precautions that needed to be taken were taken." We agree with your assessment, which is substantiated by the terrorist attack itself as well as multiple reports. The recent bipartisan Senate Select Committee on Intelligence report concluded that the intelligence community provided "ample strategic warning" that our people in Benghazi were at risk. Yet, the State Department under your leadership and the leadership of Secretary Clinton ignored those warnings and failed on multiple levels to either increase security sufficiently or close the diplomatic facility in Benghazi. Despite this, on the Sunday shows on September 16, Susan Rice said, "Well, we obviously did have a strong security presence..." She also called the security "substantial" and "significant". Can you explain why your administration's designated spokesperson made statements so inconsistent with the facts and with your view? Second, during the interview you said, "...understand by definition, Bill, when somebody is attacking our compound...that's an act of terror, which is how I characterized it the day after it happened." While you made an ambiguous reference to "acts of terror" on September 12, later that day, when asked by Steve Kroft on 60 minutes why you went out of your way to avoid the use of the word terrorism, you responded by saying, "Well it's too early to tell exactly how this came about..." Can you explain this apparent contradiction? Your unwillingness to describe the attack in Benghazi as a terrorist attack is especially troubling given the fact that your Secretary of Defense at the time, Leon Panetta, said, "there was no question in my mind it was a terrorist attack...when I appeared before this committee three days afterwards, I said it was a terrorist attack." In addition, your Central Intelligence Agency Director at the time, General David Petraeus, is reported to have said he knew it was a terrorist attack from the beginning. Third, you said during the O'Reilly interview that "...the notion that we would hide the ball for political purposes when a week later we all said in fact there was a terrorist attack taking place the day after I said it was an act of terror, that wouldn't be a very good cover-up." This statement is inconsistent with the facts. On September 24-almost two weeks after the terrorist attack-you were asked the following question on The View: "I heard Hillary Clinton say it was an act of terrorism. Is it? What do you say?" You responded saying, "We're still doing an investigation. There's no doubt that (with) the kind of weapons that were used, the ongoing assault, that it wasn't just a mob action. We don't have all the information yet, so we're still gathering it." If a week later you and your administration were admitting the events in Benghazi represented a terrorist attack, why did you refuse to say so almost two weeks after the attack and instead say, "We're still doing an investigation"? Fourth, for more than a week after the attack, your administration continued to blame the terrorist attack on the hateful video and a supposed protest. As late as September 20-9 days after the terrorist attack-you said, "What we do know is that the natural protests that arose because of the outrage over the video were used as an excuse by extremists to see if they can also directly harm U.S. interests." Yet, the bipartisan Senate Select Committee on Intelligence report concluded that, "Contrary to many press reports at the time, eyewitness statements by U.S. personnel indicate that there were no protests at the start of the attacks." And on September 15, 2012, the CIA's Chief of Station in Tripoli sent to the then-Deputy Director of the ClA and others at the CIA an email that reported the attacks were "not/not an escalation of protests." Can you explain why you continued to cite the video and protests as the cause for the attack when your administration knew from eyewitnesses within days of the attack that there were no protests and your CIA Deputy Director was informed on September 15 that the attacks were not an escalation of protests? Did the FBI and CIA not share this information with you? Finally, on September 12, in the Rose Garden, you said, "We will not waver in our commitment to see that justice is done for this terrible act. And make no mistake, justice will be done." Yet, in almost 17 months, none of the terrorists have been brought to justice. The families of the murdered Americans deserve to see the terrorists brought to justice. Moreover, terrorists around the world need to know that if they kill Americans, we will hunt them down and bring them to justice. Allowing terrorists apparently involved in the attack to sit and give interviews in cafés sends a dangerous message that there are no consequences for killing Americans. We appreciate that the situation in Libya presents some unique challenges. But if our nation can find Osama bin Laden in Pakistan, we are confident that we can find terror suspects giving interviews in Libya. It is important for the American people to know the full truth surrounding the tragic terrorist attack in Benghazi. In order to better understand the truth, we respectfully request that you answer these questions. ####
02.05.2014	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will introduce a resolution strongly denouncing the Obama Administration's coercion of states into adopting Common Core State Standards by conferring preferences in federal grants and flexibility waivers. The resolution is co-sponsored by Senators Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Ted Cruz (R-Texas), James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma), Thad Cochran (R-Mississippi), Roger Wicker (R-Mississippi), and Mike Enzi (R-Wyoming). "The Obama Administration has effectively bribed and coerced states into adopting Common Core," said Graham. "Blanket education standards should not be a prerequisite for federal funding. In order to have a competitive application for some federal grants and flexibility waivers, states have to adopt Common Core. This is simply not the way the Obama Administration should be handling education policy. Our resolution affirms that education belongs in the hands of our parents, local officials and states." "It is crucial that the money being spent on education in Oklahoma be controlled by Oklahomans who are familiar with the needs of our schools and students," said Inhofe. "This is why I am proud to join Senator Graham in introducing a resolution that enforces vital education practices of leaving the decisions of children's educational needs to the state and the parents. "Educational decisions are best made by parents and teachers - not bureaucrats in Washington," said Scott. "While Common Core started out as a state-led initiative, the federal government unfortunately decided to use carrots and sticks to coerce states into adopting national standards and assessments. That is simply the wrong choice for our kids." "Common Core is another example of Washington trying to control all aspects of Americans' lives, including the education of our children," said Cruz. "We should not allow the federal government to dictate what our children learn; rather, parents, through their teachers, local schools and state systems, should be able to direct the education of their children." "Common Core has become polluted with Federal guidelines and mandates that interfere with the ability of parents, teachers and principals to deliver the education our children deserve," said Lee. "Rather than increasing coercion, we should be demanding that further interference by the U.S. Department of Education with respect to state decisions on academic content standards be eliminated." "Decisions about what content students should be taught have enormous consequences for children and so should be made as close as possible to the affected parents and students," said Grassley. "Federal interference in this area disrupts the direct line of accountability between parents and those making decisions about their children's education. It also takes away needed flexibility from state education leaders to make changes as they learn more about what works and what does not." "This Administration favors a national school board approach to education and likes to ignore individual states' decisions," said Enzi. "It uses ‘free' money as the carrot to dangle in front of the states. In effect it is trying to force states into accepting a one-size-fits-all approach. This coercion with Common Core is another example of the federal government trampling on states' rights and is the wrong approach to fixing our education system in this country." The major provisions of the resolution affirm: • Education belongs in the hands of parents, local education officials, and states. • The federal government should not coerce states into adopting common education standards. • No future application process for any federal grant funds or waivers should award additional points, or provide any preference, for the adoption of Common Core. ##### FACT SHEET PURPOSE OF THE RESOLUTION: • Strongly denounces President Obama's coercion of states into adopting Common Core by conferring preferences in federal grants and flexibility waivers. • Strongly supports the restoration and protection of state authority and flexibility in establishing and defining challenging student academic standards and assessments. WHAT THE RESOLUTION STATES: • Education belongs in the hands of parents, local education officials, and states. • The federal government should not coerce states into adopting common education standards. • No application process for any federal grant funds or waivers should award additional points, or provide any preference, for the adoption of Common Core. • The link between adoption of common education standards and federal funds will result in increased federal control over education. • The resolution does not retract any federal funds or waivers already issued to states. • The resolution does not evaluate the content of the Common Core standards already developed and adopted by states. SUPPORTER STATEMENTS: • "HSLDA strongly opposes the Common Core, in large measure due to the federal government's use of tax dollars to coerce states into adopting the Common Core. HSLDA applauds Senator Graham for this powerful resolution pushing back against the notion that Washington, DC should use taxpayer dollars to pressure states into adopting specific education policy. Parents, teachers, and local school districts, not education bureaucrats in Washington, DC, should be in charge of the critical decisions of what, when, and how children learn. The success of homeschooling shows that greater freedom and less top-down control helps lead to academic success." -- J. Michael Smith, Esq., President, Home School Legal Defense Association • "We appreciate Senator Graham's leadership in pushing back against Common Core. For four years, the federal administration has flouted the rule of law and imposed tens of billions of dollars in mandates on states and localities. These actions have earned opposition from across the political spectrum and across the country. This Senate resolution marks the first important step taken in Congress to hold the Administration accountable and to preserve innovation in our states and localities." -- Jim Stergios, Executive Director, Pioneer Institute • "Yet again, we see another attempt to weaken the power of the states by a federal power grab. Look to the experts, those who actually teach and know our nations' kids; three-hundred prominent educators and policy-makers warn about Common Core discouraging innovation." -- Penny Nance, CEO & President of Concerned Women for America Legislative Action Committee • "Common Core is doing for education what ObamaCare is doing for health care." -- Director of Beverly LaHaye Institute (BLI), Dr. Janice Shaw Crouse ADDITIONAL SUPPORTERS: American Association of Christian Schools Family Research Council Eagle Forum American Principles Project
01.06.2014	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and John McCain (R-AZ) today released the following statement on reports that Al-Qaeda fighters have taken over Fallujah and are gaining ground in other parts of Iraq: "Reports that Al-Qaeda fighters have taken over Fallujah and are gaining ground in other parts of Iraq are as tragic as they were predictable. "While many Iraqis are responsible for this strategic disaster, the Administration cannot escape its share of the blame. When President Obama withdrew all U.S. forces from Iraq in 2011, over the objections of our military leaders and commanders on the ground, many of us predicted that the vacuum would be filled by America's enemies and would emerge as a threat to U.S. national security interests. Sadly, that reality is now clearer than ever. What's sadder still, the thousands of brave Americans who fought, shed their blood, and lost their friends to bring peace to Fallujah and Iraq are now left to wonder whether these sacrifices were in vain. "Let it be clear that the Administration's narrative that Iraq's political leadership objected to U.S. forces remaining in Iraq after 2011 is patently false. We know firsthand that Iraq's main political blocs were supportive and that the Administration rejected sound military advice and squandered the opportunity to conclude a security agreement with Iraq that could have met U.S. military requirements and helped to consolidate our gains after a decade of war. "The Administration's failure in Iraq has been compounded by its failed policy in Syria. It has sat by and refused to take any meaningful action, while the conflict has claimed more than 130,000 lives, driven a quarter of the Syrian population from their homes, fueled the resurgence of Al-Qaeda, and devolved into a regional conflict that now threatens our national security interests and the stability of Syria's neighbors, especially Iraq. All of this, too, was predictable. "We must apply the painful lessons of Iraq in Afghanistan. Talk of a ‘zero option' must be dismissed as the surest way to squander all of our hard-won gains, thereby allowing Afghanistan to re-emerge as a safe haven for Al-Qaeda and its terrorist allies. President Obama finally needs to decide on the missions and troop levels necessary to secure U.S. national security interests and support our Afghan partners beyond 2014. And he needs to move quickly to finalize the Bilateral Security Agreement with the Government of Afghanistan. "The Administration must recognize the failure of its policies in the Middle East and change course. America has lost time, options, influence, and credibility over the past five years, and we cannot afford to remain disengaged any longer." ###
12.18.2013	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) voted against the budget deal because it cuts retirement benefits for current and future military retirees. The legislation passed the Senate by a vote of 64-36 and will now go to President Obama. "I find it ironic that a few years ago the Senate was forced to stay in Washington and vote on Obamacare on Christmas Eve," said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "Yet now we won't stay a few extra days to fix this injustice to our military retirees." "President Obama, above everyone else, has the responsibility as Commander in Chief to take care of those who honorably serve our nation in uniform," said Graham. "He should not sign this severely flawed legislation into law. Instead, he should show leadership and send Congress back to work to fix this problem." Graham noted while the budget agreement includes cuts to retirement benefits for current and future military retirees, all current civilian federal employees are protected from an increase in the contribution rate for the Federal Employees Retirement System - the increase would only apply to new federal employees hired after January 1, 2014. Graham said it was unacceptable to ask our men and women in uniform - including those who are currently serving - to take a disproportionate cut in retirement benefits. The Pentagon confirmed yesterday that the provision also would cut retirement benefits of service members forced to retire due to medical reasons-including injuries in combat. "If budgets and legislation reflect our nation's priorities, what would it say about us if we pass a bill that turns to our veterans and says "thank you for deploying to war and enduring the hardships of military life-but we are going to need you to sacrifice again and give back $72,000 of the retirement you have earned," concluded Graham. #####
12.17.2013	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), and Roger Wicker (R-MS), members of the Senate Armed Services and Budget Committees, today urged their Senate colleagues to find alternative savings to replace a provision in the budget agreement that cuts retirement benefits for current and future military retirees by approximately $6 billion. In a letter sent today to all Senators, Graham, Ayotte, and Wicker urged Republican and Democratic colleagues to work together to identify a $6.3 billion offset to replace the troubling provision - adding that they were prepared to support the budget agreement if the provision is replaced with acceptable alternative savings. "While we appreciate the hard work of Chairman Ryan and Chairman Murray, as it is currently written, we cannot support the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 due to the legislation's provision that disproportionately and unfairly targets those who have put their lives on the line to defend our country," they wrote. "Although the legislation is far from perfect and does not address the long-term drivers of our debt, if the ‘pay for' is changed, we are prepared to support it to provide budgetary certainty and sequestration relief for our nation's critical defense programs." While the budget agreement includes cuts to retirement benefits for current and future military retirees, all current civilian federal employees are protected from an increase in the contribution rate for the Federal Employees Retirement System - the increase would only apply to new federal employees hired after January 1, 2014. The Senators said it was unacceptable to ask our men and women in uniform - including those who are currently serving - to take a disproportionate cut in retirement benefits. On Wednesday, the Military Coalition-which represents more than 5.5 million current and former service members and their families and survivors-expressed strong opposition to the budget agreement, saying that it "seeks to penalize current and future military members who have served our nation for over twenty years." The Coalition is comprised of more than 30 military and veterans groups, including the Veterans of Foreign Wars, Military Officers Association of America, and the National Guard Association of the United States. GRAHAM-AYOTTE-WICKER LETTER TO SENATE COLLEAGUES: Dear Colleagues, As members of the Senate Armed Services and Budget Committees, we are eager to support a budget deal that provides much-needed fiscal certainty, offers sequestration relief, and restores military readiness. While we appreciate the hard work of Chairman Ryan and Chairman Murray, as it is currently written, we cannot support the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 due to the legislation's provision that disproportionately and unfairly targets those who have put their lives on the line to defend our country. Although the legislation is far from perfect and does not address the long-term drivers of our debt, if the ‘pay for' is changed, we are prepared to support it to provide budgetary certainty and sequestration relief for our nation's critical defense programs. As you know, in order to achieve approximately $6.3 billion in savings, the legislation currently includes a provision that requires a one percent reduction in cost of living benefits for many military retirees under age 62. As a matter of principle, we do not believe it is right to ask our veterans to sacrifice again for our country when we have not had the courage to address the primary long-term drivers of our debt. To cite one example, under this provision, a 42 year old Sergeant First Class retiree-who has served our country for two decades and most likely deployed multiple times to war-would lose approximately $72,000. Under the proposal, the contribution rate for the Federal Employees Retirement System for new federal employees hired after January 1, 2014, is increased, but all current federal employees are grandfathered and protected from the increase in contributions. Unfortunately, our current and future military retirees were not provided with similar protections that current civilian federal employees are receiving under this act. If budgets and legislation reflect our nation's priorities, what would it say about us if we pass a bill that turns to our veterans and says "thank you for deploying to war and enduring the hardships of military life-but we are going to need you to sacrifice again and give back $72,000 of the retirement you have earned." That is unacceptable and we cannot support legislation that sends such a message to our current military retirees and future retirees currently protecting our country and serving in harm's way in Afghanistan and around the world. We stand ready to work expeditiously with our colleagues in a bipartisan manner to identify an alternative $6.3 billion offset to replace this troubling provision. ###
12.13.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he would vote against the budget agreement when it comes to the Senate floor. "After careful review of the agreement, I believe it will do disproportionate harm to our military retirees," said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "Our men and women in uniform have served admirably during some of our nation's most troubling times. They deserve more from us in their retirement than this agreement provides." Graham noted the budget deal contains a one percent reduction in cost of living benefits for some military retirees. The provision could significantly impact military retiree benefits. For example: • A 42-year old who retires as an enlisted E-7 could lose a minimum of $72,000. • A 42-year old Lt. Colonel could lose a minimum of $109,000. Source: Military Officers Association of America (MOAA) "I support comprehensive, not piecemeal, pay and benefit reform to deal with rising military personnel costs," said Graham. "I truly appreciate Congressman Paul Ryan and Senator Patty Murray for their work trying to write a budget that provides relief to the Department of Defense," concluded Graham. "But this agreement doesn't do enough to protect those who have spent their lives protecting our nation." #####
12.13.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHNGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Tim Scott, along with 5th District Congressman Mick Mulvaney, today made this statement on the Nativity scene at Shaw Air Force Base in Sumter, South Carolina. "We are pleased the Nativity scene has been restored at Shaw Air Force Base. From the start, our offices have been in touch with Shaw officials expressing our concerns about this matter. We appreciate the Air Force for listening to our complaint, keeping the Nativity scene on base, and moving it to the Chapel." #####
12.09.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will enroll in Obamacare's South Carolina health care exchange and forego the special taxpayer subsidy available to Members of Congress. "I don't think Members of Congress should get a special deal," said Graham. "Obamacare is being pushed on the American people and we should live under it just like everyone else." Graham noted that under a special exemption issued by the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), he could have enrolled in the DC Health Link exchange and the government would have continued subsidizing about 75 percent of his health care premium. This exemption only applied to Members of Congress and congressional staff. "As a 58-year old male living in Oconee County my insurance costs are going up about $400 a month, more than 200 percent, under Obamacare," said Graham. "In addition, my health care coverage will be a fraction of what it used to be. Sadly, I'm not the only one who will feel the negative effects of Obamacare. It's happening all over South Carolina. "The worst is yet to come, but I will continue my fight to repeal, replace, defund and allow Americans to opt-out of this horrible government program," concluded Graham. #####
11.22.2013	Kevin Bishop, 864-250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Senate Democrats vote to change the rules of the Senate. "Let's call it what it was -- a raw power grab by Senate Democrats and President Obama. Previous efforts to resist the temptation of turning the Senate into the House of Representatives were lost today and the ‘advise and consent' clause for executive and judicial branch nominations was washed away. "But there is much more here than meets the eye. • After today, I fully expect President Obama to stack the D.C. Circuit Court with liberal, rubber-stamp judges. This court has primary jurisdiction over lawsuits that challenge Obamacare regulations. It is no accident the rules were changed to stack this court. President Obama is committed to protecting Obamacare, his signature achievement, regardless of the damage done to millions of Americans. He is even willing to throw the judiciary into chaos if necessary. Any American who wants to bring a legal challenge to the thousands of Obamacare rules and regulations lost big today. • The hold I placed on many Obama nominees until Congress was able to speak with the Benghazi survivors has been greatly eroded. I was very pleased my hold resulted in the first Senate interview of a State Department Benghazi survivor yesterday, 14 months after the attack. I, along with several Senate colleagues, spoke at length to this individual who provided new and compelling information about the attacks on our compounds in Benghazi. Unfortunately, Americans who want to get to the truth about what happened in Benghazi were hurt by today's vote. Without the ability to delay nominations, presidential administrations are likely to be even more successful in their stonewalling efforts. • Finally, one of the great concerns about this rule change is without the requirement to work with the minority party to select judges, the judiciary will become dominated by ideologues. One of the biggest winners of this move is liberal groups who will be pushing radical, liberal judges to serve on the federal bench." #####
11.20.2013	Kevin Bishop, (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Obama Administration call for South Carolina to expand Medicaid eligibility under Obamacare. "Given all the problems they have created, you would think the White House would be trying to plug some of the holes in this sinking ship known as Obamacare. Instead, they are out there recruiting more people to come on board. We shouldn't buy a ticket on the Titanic. "Governor Haley and our state legislature understand the simple fact that expansion of Medicaid called for under Obamacare is unsustainable. South Carolina was right to reject it. We cannot afford this burden." #####
11.19.2013	Lorcan Connick, 202-224-5972 WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham, Charles E. Schumer, Robert Menendez, John McCain, Bob Casey and Susan Collins wrote to Secretary of State John Kerry, expressing their support for negotiations but cautioning the Administration against accepting a deal with Iran that would roll back economic sanctions without also rolling back progress towards nuclear weapons capability. According to media reports, Administration negotiators have considered accepting an agreement that would provide relief for the Iranian regime from the debilitating economic sanctions while only requiring the Iranians to halt their work towards a nuclear weapon, rather than undoing the progress they have already made. The senators wrote, "We feel strongly that any easing of sanctions along the lines that the P5+1 is reportedly considering should require Iran to roll back its nuclear program more significantly than now envisioned. "It is our belief that any interim agreement with the Iranians should bring us closer to our ultimate goal which is Iran without a nuclear weapons capability. We must ensure that the steps we take in the coming weeks and months move us towards a resolution that ultimately brings Iran in compliance with all relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions, seeks to prevent Tehran from possessing any enrichment or reprocessing capability, and resolves any and all fears that Iran will develop a nuclear weapons capability." Under the reported agreement, the P5+1 is prepared to permit Iran to continue enriching uranium at 3.5% for civilian use, to cap but not reduce the number of centrifuges, and to continue work near the Arak heavy water nuclear reactor. The senators argue that these steps may suggest Iran is willing to temporarily slow its pursuit of a nuclear weapon, but they would allow Iran to continue making some progress towards obtaining a nuclear weapon under the cover of further negotiations. In return, Iran would receive relief from economic sanctions, including access to previously-frozen assets. The senators said the reported agreement, "does not give us confidence that Iran is prepared to abandon unambiguously its nuclear weapons pursuit altogether, as it must." The full text of the letter appears below: Dear Secretary Kerry: We appreciate your continued efforts, in concert with our friends and allies, to negotiate with the Iranian regime. We also commend the efforts of your negotiating team to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapons capability. Our negotiators have benefited from the effects of tough economic sanctions in bringing Iran to the table. Without the Administration, Congress, and our allies working together, we would not have arrived at this crucial point. Indeed, we support the concept of an interim agreement with Iran that would roll back its nuclear program as a first step to seeking a final settlement that prevents Iran from ever developing a nuclear weapons capability. At the same time, we are concerned that the interim agreement would require us to make significant concessions before we see Iran demonstrably commit to moving away from developing a nuclear weapons capability. It is our understanding that the interim agreement now under consideration would not require Iran to even meet the terms of prior United Nations Security Council resolutions which require Iran to suspend its reprocessing, heavy water-related and enrichment-related activities and halt ongoing construction of any uranium-enrichment, reprocessing, or heavy water-related facilities. For example, we understand that the P5+1 is prepared to permit Iran to continue enriching uranium at 3.5 percent albeit for civilian use, to cap but not reduce its number of centrifuges, and to continue work around or near the Arak heavy water nuclear reactor. While the interim agreement may suggest that Iran could be willing temporarily to slow its pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability, it could also allow Iran to continue making some progress toward that end under the cover of negotiations. This does not give us confidence that Iran is prepared to abandon unambiguously its nuclear weapons pursuit altogether, as it must. Furthermore, it is our understanding that in return for certain Iranian actions, the P5+1 would allow Iran to gain access to considerable amounts of capital that have been frozen by our international sanctions. Some have estimated the value of this capital for Iran as much as $10 billion. We regard this as a major concession on our part that would not be justified by the concessions the Iranian regime would be required to make in return. If we are reducing sanctions, Iran should be reducing its nuclear capabilities. As you know, it is not just the sanctions themselves but the threat that they would continue to tighten that has brought the Iranians to the negotiating table. Easing sanctions now without real, tangible actions by Iran to roll back its nuclear program would not only diminish this threat of future pressure, it could make it more difficult to maintain the current sanctions regime at a time when many international actors are already eager to lessen their implementation of sanctions. We feel strongly that any easing of sanctions along the lines that the P5+1 is reportedly considering should require Iran to roll back its nuclear program more significantly than now envisioned. It is our belief that any interim agreement with the Iranians should bring us closer to our ultimate goal which is Iran without a nuclear weapons capability. We must ensure that the steps we take in the coming weeks and months move us towards a resolution that ultimately brings Iran in compliance with all relevant United Nations Security Council Resolutions, seeks to prevent Tehran from possessing any enrichment or reprocessing capability, and resolves any and all fears that Iran will develop a nuclear weapons capability. The upcoming round of negotiations could hardly be more important and we must be ever mindful of with whom we are negotiating. Iran has been the largest state sponsor of terrorism for over thirty years; its leaders routinely call for the destruction of Israel; and it arms and finances terrorist groups around the globe. We urge you and your negotiating team to fight for an interim agreement that demands as much or more of Iran as it does of the United States and our allies. We hope in the next few weeks we and our partners will redouble our efforts to gain greater proportionality and to finalize an agreement that demonstrates that Iran is moving away from the nuclear weapons path. ###
11.07.2013	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced the Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act in the United States Senate. The legislation currently has 33 cosponsors. Graham was joined at the Capitol Hill introduction by U.S. Senator Rob Portman of Ohio and leaders of the pro-life community. "At twenty weeks, mothers are encouraged to speak and sing as the baby can recognize the voice of the mother," said Graham. "The question for the American people is, ‘Should we be silent when it comes to protecting these unborn children entering the sixth month of pregnancy? Or is it incumbent on us to speak up and act on their behalf? I say we must speak up and act. "Science and technology have advanced tremendously since 1973," said Graham. "We now know that an unborn child at the twentieth week of pregnancy can feel pain. In fact, anesthesia is administered directly to unborn children in second trimester fetal surgery. Given these facts and my continued strong support for life, I believe there is a compelling interest in protecting these unborn children who are among the most vulnerable in our society. I'm confident that over time the American people and their elected representatives will say yes as well. The Pain Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is the new front in protecting the rights of the unborn. I'm very proud to be leading this charge." "While our nation is divided on whether or not abortion should be legal, on one point there is a growing consensus: we must all work together to reduce the number of abortions. With all of the innovative medical treatments now available, more Americans are realizing that we are talking about children that deserve protection and overwhelmingly believe that we need a law like this," said Portman. "The unborn are the most vulnerable members of our society, and I am committed to ongoing efforts to protect innocent life." Cosponsors include Senators John Barrasso (WY), Roy Blunt (MO), John Boozman (AR), Richard Burr (NC), Saxby Chambliss (GA), Dan Coats (IN), Thad Cochran (MS), Tom Coburn (OK), Mike Crapo (ID), Ted Cruz (TX), John Cornyn (TX), Mike Enzi (WY), Deb Fischer (NE), Jeff Flake (AZ), Charles Grassley (IA), Orrin Hatch (UT), John Hoeven (ND), Johnny Isakson (GA), Mike Johanns (NE), Ron Johnson (WI) James Inhofe (OK), Mitch McConnell (KY), Jerry Moran (KS), John McCain (AZ), James Risch (ID), Pat Roberts (KS), Marco Rubio (FL), Richard Shelby (AL), Tim Scott (SC), John Thune (SD), David Vitter (LA), and Roger Wicker (MS), Companion legislation passed through the U.S. House of Representatives in June by a vote of 228-196. #####
10.18.2013	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), and Mark Kirk (R-IL) released the following statement in response to today's New York Times report that the Obama Administration is considering easing sanctions on Iran by releasing frozen overseas assets held by the Iranian regime: "Now is a time to strengthen--not weaken--U.S. and international sanctions. The U.S. should not suspend new sanctions, nor consider releasing limited frozen assets, before Tehran suspends its nuclear enrichment activities. Iran must fully cooperate with the International Atomic Energy Agency, meet its responsibilities under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, and implement all relevant U.N. Security Council resolutions in a transparent and verifiable manner. Nothing short of that will be acceptable to the United States Congress and the American people." ###
10.17.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted to support the Senate agreement to reopen the federal government and avoid the first-ever default on the federal debt. "To say we as Republicans left a lot on the table would be one of the biggest understatements in American political history. We could have done much, much better. Unfortunately, given where we now find ourselves, this agreement was the best Senator McConnell could do. By the time we got to this point, we were playing poker only holding a pair of twos. "Today's agreement is far from great news but brings to an end, at least temporarily, a disaster. It stops the bleeding and gives us a chance to regroup. "On the positive side, the agreement preserves the spending caps and makes modest changes to protect taxpayers from what will be rampant fraud in Obamacare income verification procedures. "On the negative side, we did nothing to address the long-term drivers of our national debt. "I'm also very disappointed the agreement did not require every Member of Congress to participate in Obamacare. I will work with Senator Vitter to make sure Congress and the President have to live under this disaster of a law, just like every other American. "I'm glad this chapter is coming to a close but make no mistake, there are no winners here. President Obama was AWOL when it came to leadership. Democrats in the Congress constantly moved the goalposts and were focused only on scoring political points. And as Republicans, we overplayed our hand. "I hope we learn from the past few weeks. The problems with Obamacare will now be out in the open once this agreement is passed into law and the Republican Party still has an opportunity in 2014 because every Democrat owns this terrible idea called Obamacare." #####
10.10.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on news Deputy Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter will leave his office in December. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "It was with great sadness I learned Deputy Secretary of Defense Carter will be stepping down in December. He has been a steady, consistent and effective voice for our men and women in uniform. He also has great respect and admiration from senators on both sides of the aisle. "During his time as Deputy Secretary, we have faced some of the most challenging times in the department's history. Ash Carter was always there providing exceptional leadership at a time when it mattered. He will truly be missed." #####
10.10.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) yesterday opened his offices in Washington and across South Carolina even though portions of the federal government remain shutdown. "It's pretty simple, if my staff is going to be paid they ought to be at work," said Graham. During the government shutdown, Graham is donating his salary to the Wounded Warrior Project. #####
10.01.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on legislation which has passed the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate ensuring our men and women in military uniform continue to be paid during a government shutdown. The legislation was signed into law late last night by President Obama. As a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Graham has made it a priority to ensure our men and women in uniform are not denied their paychecks during a government shutdown. Last week Graham warned that anyone who stood in the way of paying our troops during a government shutdown would, "make an enemy of me for life." Graham said: "I'm extremely pleased that Senate Democrats have now agreed with House and Senate Republicans that our military deserves to be paid. It's the least we can do for the men and women in uniform who continue to risk their lives in defense of our nation." #####
09.27.2013	Lorcan Connick (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his vote to defund Obamacare. The amendment to remove the Defund Obamacare provision, which passed the House, was defeated by the Democrat-controlled Senate by a straight party-line vote of 44-54. All Senate Republicans supported the measure to Defund Obamacare while all Senate Democrat voted in opposition. Graham said: "Today, I proudly voted to defund Obamacare, and I am proud that every Senate Republican has united in support of the House-passed defund Obamacare provision. I only wish that more Senate Democrats, many of whom were responsible for Obamacare's passage into law, would have voted with us. "With Democrats in control of the Senate, we needed Democrats to join with the American people who want Obamacare stopped in its tracks. Based upon the Democrats unanimous votes in support of funding Obamacare, they must not have gotten the message. "I fought and voted against Obamacare in 2010. Since then, I have tried to stop the law's implementation any way I can: Supported ending the special exemption for Congress from Obamacare; Supported ending the special exemption for President Obama from Obamacare; Authored legislation to allow states to opt-out of Obamacare; Cosponsored legislation to repeal Obamacare; Cosponsored legislation to prohibit the funding of Obamacare; Cosponsored legislation which defunds the IRS' implementation of Obamacare; Cosponsored a bill to repeal the individual mandate in Obamacare; Sent a letter with my Republican colleagues requesting the Obama Administration grant relief to all Americans by delaying implementation of Obamacare so Congress can adopt common-sense reforms; and Offered an amendment to defund implementation of the individual and employer mandates required under Obamacare. "Obamacare is, has been, and will remain a financial disaster for our nation." #####
09.27.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on ending the special Obamacare exemption for Congress. "America will suffer under Obamacare and Congress should be no different. I support the Vitter Amendment to end the special Obamacare exemption and force Congress to live under this disaster of a law just like every other American." #####
09.24.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 "I support the House-passed bill to Defund Obamacare. We'll have a vote where every Republican votes to defund Obamacare and practically every Democrat will keep it in place. And that will be the defining issue in 2014." -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham
09.24.2013	Alice James (202) 224-5972 Washington, D.C. -- U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today released the following statement on the Obama Administration's diplomatic initiative with Iran: "We support the willingness of the Obama Administration to test the credibility of the Iranian regime's diplomatic overtures. However, we are deeply skeptical about the real motivations behind Iran's charm offensive. We need to approach the current diplomatic initiative with eyes wide open, and we must not allow Iran to use negotiations as a tool of delay and deception. A real negotiation does not mean that the diplomats talk while the Iranians enrich. "When Secretary Kerry sits down with the Iranian Foreign Minister, we urge him to make clear that the U.S. government, the American people, and the U.S. Congress will never allow the world's worst state sponsor of terrorism to acquire the world's most dangerous weapon. Kind words are not enough. We must see transparent, tangible, and verifiable steps by the Iranian regime to fulfill its international obligations and end its pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability. The American people and Congress will not support anything less. "We also urge Secretary Kerry to make clear to the Iranian Foreign Minister that, while Iran's pursuit of a nuclear weapons capability is our top concern, it is not our only concern. We are also opposed to the Iranian regime's efforts to destabilize the Middle East - including its support for terrorist organizations and attacks across the region that have killed Americans; its commitment to the destruction of Israel; its attempts to assassinate Israeli and Arab officials; its oppression of the Iranian people; its threat to friendly Arab governments; its development of increasingly capable ballistic missiles; and its unwavering military assistance to the Assad regime, which has slaughtered more than 110,000 men, women, and children." ###
09.23.2013	Kevin Bishop, Communications Director WASHINGTON, DC - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Robert Menendez (D-NJ) wrote President Obama today urging him during his speech to the U.N. General Assembly to re-state the U.S. goal of not permitting Iran to achieve nuclear weapons capability and demanding verifiable action from the Iranian government in order to permit the possibility of a diplomatic accord with the international community. This follows the letter written in August by Menendez and Graham, and signed by a total of 76 U.S. Senators, calling for tougher sanctions against Iran. The Menendez and Graham letter sent today to President Obama appears below and here. September 23, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you prepare to deliver remarks to the United Nations later this week, we urge you to re-state the United States position that we will not permit Iran to achieve a nuclear weapons capability and demand verifiable action from Iran that will permit the possibility of a diplomatic accord with the international community. Like you, we viewed the election of Hassan Rouhani as an indicator of discontent amongst the Iranian people and we have taken note of recent diplomatic overtures by Iran. However, whatever nice words we may hear from Mr. Rouhani, it is Iranian action that matters. We would welcome a credible and verifiable agreement with Iran. A real agreement would have real benefits for Iran. We also recall, however, Iran's prior use of negotiations as a subterfuge for progress on its clandestine nuclear program, as well as Iran's continued financing of terrorist activities -- from those carried out by its own Iranian Revolutionary Guards Corps to its support for Hezbollah whose actions have most recently strengthened the brutal hand of Bashar al-Assad. Iran is not a friend whose word can be taken as a promise. The test of Iranian seriousness must be verifiable action by Iran to terminate its nuclear weapons program, including compliance with the mandates of four UN Security Council Resolutions. In the letter sent to you on August 2, signed by 76 Senators, we expressed our belief that there are four strategic elements necessary to achieve a resolution of this issue: an explicit and continuing message that we will not allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapons capability, a sincere demonstration of openness to negotiations by Iran, the maintenance and toughening of sanctions and a convincing threat of the use of force. We reiterate those views in this letter. The national security implications of a nuclear Iran are unimaginable -- threatening the very existence of our ally the State of Israel, as well as launching an all but certain nuclear arms race in the most volatile region of the world. As you prepare to address the United Nations next week in New York, we urge you to make clear the United States' goal of achieving a diplomatic solution, but also our resolve to take whatever action is necessary to prevent Iran from become a nuclear state. Sincerely, Senator Robert Menendez Senator Lindsey Graham ####
09.11.2013	Kevin Bishop WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the anniversary of 9-11. "I still remember that terrible day, and I will never forget the fear we all felt and the grief we experienced seeing our nation attacked. "On September 11, 2001, I was walking to my Washington, D.C. office when I received a call from South Carolina. My staff told me to turn on the television because a plane had just struck the World Trade Center in New York. I went back home and almost immediately after turning on the television saw the second plane hit the Twin Towers. "It was then and there that I, like almost all Americans, realized this was not an accident. Our nation was under attack. "The House and Senate offices were evacuated and my staff came over to my house to watch the horror of what was unfolding around us. I remember walking outside and seeing the unbelievable sight of smoke rising from the Pentagon and hearing the roar of fighter jets circling the Capitol. "Watching our nation come under attack and seeing our fellow citizens killed by terrorists was a sickening feeling. We must never let our country be exposed like that again. "Tragically, 9/11 now also marks the one year anniversary since the terrorist attack on our Consulate in Benghazi that took the lives of four brave Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens. "President Obama promised the American people we would track down those responsible and bring them to justice. One year after the attack, no one has been held accountable. "Questions about what happened in Benghazi remain unanswered and the American people deserve answers. But most of all, we owe it to the victims' families. I have met many of them, and I will not stop pushing for accountability and for answers so I can look them in the eye and tell them the truth about what happened. "America must never forget September 11. We must continue to confront the radical ideology behind both of these evil attacks and remain diligent in our efforts to prevent them from ever happening again. "One of the most vivid memories from that day twelve years ago was when Members of the House and Senate gathered on the Capitol steps to show our resolve and spontaneously began to sing God Bless America. If we can recapture that spirit of unity in our country, I am confident we can defeat Radical Islam. "On this special day, let's be mindful of the threats we face, appreciative of our freedoms, and thankful for the first responders and brave men and women in uniform who protect us." #####
07.25.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham's (R-South Carolina) amendment to the Fiscal Year 2014 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act to prohibit the federal government from bailing out municipalities which are facing bankruptcy, like Detroit, failed by a vote of 14-16. "If you weren't worried about the federal government bailing out municipalities like Detroit, now you should be," said Graham. "All Americans should keep a close eye on where the Obama Administration and Congress are heading in terms of bailouts for cities like Detroit. The failure of my amendment is a very disturbing signal." The Graham Amendment says: No federal funds may be used to purchase or guarantee any asset or obligation of any municipal, local, or county government if that locality has defaulted, is at risk of defaulting, or likely to default absent such federal assistance. In addition, the federal government would also be prohibited from issuing lines of credit or providing direct or indirect financial aid to prevent bankruptcy. "The federal government is beyond broke," continued Graham. "The last thing we need is the broke bailing out the broke. There is no doubt Detroit has huge problems, but they are facing problems of their own making. Detroit and other municipalities facing these issues need to get their own financial houses in order." "In South Carolina both our state government and localities have faced several lean budget years," continued Graham. "They were forced to make tough, painful decisions which were not easy. But they faced up to the challenges and did what was necessary. Other states and localities should do likewise." #####
07.19.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 or Matt House (202) 224-2939 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Charles E. Schumer (D-New York) have introduced a bipartisan resolution encouraging the Russian government to turn over Edward Snowden to the United States. Since June 23 Snowden has been on Russian territory in the Sheremetyevo Airport. If Russia continues to shelter Snowden, the Senators encourage President Obama to give consideration to recommending an alternate location for the September G20 Summit scheduled to be held in St. Petersburg, Russia. The Graham-Schumer resolution states: • The Russian Federation's continued willingness to provide shelter to Edward Snowden is negatively impacting the US-Russia relationship. • Russia should immediately turn Edward Snowden over to the appropriate United States authorities so he can stand trial in the United States; • President Obama should consider other options, including recommending a different location for the September 2013 G20 summit in St. Petersburg, Russia, should Russia continue to allow shelter for Mr. Snowden. "On multiple fronts, Russia is becoming one of the bad actors in the world," said Graham. "Russia continues to provide cover to the Iranian nuclear program and sell sophisticated weapons to the Assad regime in Syria to butcher tens of thousands of its own citizens. For Russia to grant temporary asylum to Mr. Snowden on top of all this would do serious damage to our relationship. It is past time we send a strong message to President Putin about Russia's actions and this resolution will help accomplish that goal." "Time and time again. President Putin is too eager to stick a finger in the eye of the United States - whether it is arming the murderous Assad regime in Syria, supporting Iran's nuclear development or now providing shelter and Russian state protection to Edward Snowden," said Schumer. "Enough is enough. It's time to send a crystal clear message to President Putin about Russia's deplorable behavior, and this resolution will do just that." The government of the United States has filed a criminal complaint against Snowden for theft of government property, unauthorized communication of national defense information, and the willful communication of classified communications intelligence information to an unauthorized person. #####
07.18.2013	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on news that Medical Mutual of Ohio, the parent of the Carolina Care health plan, will be pulling out of South Carolina by the end of the year. Carolina Care is the second largest issuer of individual health insurance plans in South Carolina. According to the Columbia Regional Business Report, Medical Mutual's decision to leave South Carolina, as well as Georgia and Indiana, was prompted by new rules that regulate patient protection under Obamacare. (http://bit.ly/151ZGTI) Graham said: "I hate to say I told you so, but I told you so. Every day we see stories like this about Obamacare -- rising prices, fewer choices, and more confusion for patients and providers. "We now have one less choice for health insurance in South Carolina. In the days to follow, people will likely lose their choice of doctor as well. Unfortunately, this is just the beginning of the disaster that will befall our country if Obamacare is fully implemented." #####
07.10.2013	Bo Hart (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON, D.C. -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today signed a letter to President Obama urging him to permanently delay the implementation of ObamaCare for all Americans. Last week, the Obama Administration announced that after hearing concerns from the business community it will delay implementation of a key ObamaCare component, the employer mandate, until 2015. In the letter, Graham writes, "This law is unworkable and harmful to the economy and to American families and your actions to delay the employer mandate are an acknowledgement of this fact. While your recent action provides temporary relief for some, we believe that all Americans deserve permanent relief from this onerous law, so that we can adopt common-sense reforms that will actually lower costs and that Americans support." Graham was joined by all his Republican Senate colleagues in sending the letter to President Obama. #### July 10, 2013 The Honorable Barack Obama President The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: We write to express concern that in your recent decision to delay implementation of the employer mandate, you have unilaterally acted and failed to work with Congress on such a significant decision. Further, while your action finally acknowledges some of the many burdens this law will place on job creators, we believe the rest of this law should be permanently delayed for everyone in order to avoid significant economic harm to American families. In response to questions about the administration's decision, your senior advisor Valerie Jarrett said, "We are listening," while referring to the concerns of the business community over the onerous employer mandate that will result in fewer jobs and employees working fewer hours. We have been listening as well, and as more employers have attempted to understand your burdensome requirements in the Affordable Care Act, the louder their outrage has become. We are also listening to the views of the American people. A recent Gallup poll from June of 2013 showed that a majority of Americans disapprove of the Affordable Care Act. The same survey revealed that for every one person who believes they will be better off under the Affordable Care Act, two believe they will be worse off. Opposition to your health law is growing, and it will continue to grow as more Americans realize that the law is built upon broken promises and will result in higher health care costs and more taxes. Under the individual mandate, the IRS, which is still under multiple investigations for unfairly targeting conservative groups, will play a central role in the implementation of the health care law in our country. Last fall, the Congressional Budget Office estimated that nearly six million Americans, primarily in the middle class, will have to pay a tax under the individual mandate, which was two million more than previously estimated. When the Affordable Care Act is fully implemented, the average individual mandate tax will be nearly $1,200, which clearly contradicts your previous statement that the individual mandate "is absolutely not a tax increase." Further, families are facing significant increases in premiums. Last week, the Wall Street Journal published an analysis of premiums and concluded that under your law some Americans will see their premiums "double or even triple," which is the opposite of your promise that premiums will go down by $2,500 for American families. Given the widely-held belief by the American people that the Affordable Care Act will not fulfill its promises and will result in higher costs for American families, we implore you to listen to the American people. This law is unworkable and harmful to the economy and to American families, and your actions to delay the employer mandate are an acknowledgement of this fact. While your recent action provides temporary relief for some, we believe that all Americans deserve permanent relief from this onerous law, so that we can adopt common-sense reforms that will actually lower costs and that Americans support.
07.03.2013	Bo Hart (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement today on the delay in Obamacare implementation. "The decision to delay the implementation of Obamacare is driven by the 2014 elections. Unfortunately, the negative effects Obamacare has on our economy cannot be postponed. Simply delaying its implementation does not undo its fundamental flaws. Obamacare is, has been, and will remain a financial disaster for our nation." #####
06.26.2013	Bo Hart (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Supreme Court ruling on the Defense of Marriage Act. "I believe in the traditional definition of marriage. South Carolinians have repeatedly said that is the definition they support as well. "I have been a strong supporter of the Defense of Marriage Act. I voted for it as a member of the House of Representatives, and as a Senator wrote a brief to the Supreme Court to uphold this important law. I was disappointed with today's outcome, but respect the Court's decision. "One key point, today's Supreme Court ruling will not change South Carolina law and I will continue to fight for and defend the traditional definition of marriage." #####
06.25.2013	Bo Hart (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Supreme Court decision Shelby County v Holder. "Voting is a fundamental right guaranteed to all United States citizens. I will continue to do everything in my power to ensure elections are free and fair for every South Carolinian. "Section 4 of the Voting Rights Act was a necessary tool to preserve voting rights, but due to the reform and advances in South Carolina election law, it is no longer necessary. The Supreme Court noted this tremendous progress in South Carolina's electoral system and it was the underpinning of their decision. I concur with the Court that our state has made tremendous progress. "The Supreme Court decision now puts South Carolina on equal footing with every other state in the nation. As a South Carolinian, I'm glad we will no longer be singled out and treated differently than our sister states." #####
06.25.2013	Bo Hart (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Obama's decision on the Keystone XL pipeline. "Mr. President, what are you thinking? "Even if we don't build Keystone XL the Canadians have made it clear they will sell oil from the oil sands. Some of the highest greenhouse gas emitting countries in the world, like China, are already lining up to purchase this oil if we don't. "If the Obama Administration rejects Keystone XL it will be one of the most short-sighted decisions in memory. The choice is simple - build the pipeline, create jobs in the United States, and lessen our dependence on oil from the Middle East. I would much rather buy oil from our Canadian allies and friends than rely on oil imports from Russia, Venezuela, or Middle Eastern regimes who hate our guts. "I was one of the first members of the United States Senate to visit the Canadian oil sands to see first-hand how this resource could benefit our country. I know from my own experience, and in spite of all the heated rhetoric, issues like Keystone XL really don't get much simpler to resolve. We need oil and Canada has the means to deliver it to us. There's nothing more common-sense than expanding our long-standing, mutually beneficial relationship with Canada." #####
06.25.2013	Bo Hart (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said Folly Beach will receive $20.4 million in beach renourishment funding. "I appreciate Secretary Darcy working with us to get these funds reprogrammed," said U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). "This should allow us to move to construction by the end of October. It's an important project and I'm glad we're going to be able to get it done." It was imperative that we get this done with FY13 funds, as Folly Beach was not included in President's FY 14 Budget. "I also appreciate Mayor Tim Goodwin's tireless advocacy on this project," said Graham. "He played an integral role in helping convey to the Assistant Secretary the critical nature of this project." Graham is a member of the Energy and Water Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee. #####
06.21.2013	Alice James (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) yesterday came out in support of the Corker-Hoeven border security amendment to the Senate immigration bill. A vote on the amendment is scheduled for Monday evening. "When people in South Carolina say ‘Secure the Border,' I get it," said Graham. "The Corker-Hoeven amendment is a border surge and designed to help us regain over sovereignty. It is a robust border security measure which calls for the hiring, training and deployment of an additional 20,000 Border Patrol agents on the southern border." Graham noted there are five major provisions of the Corker-Hoeven amendment and they must all be met before illegal immigrants can gain lawful permanent residents status in the United States. The provisions include: Hiring, training, and deployment of an additional 20,000 Border Patrol agents on the Southern border. By comparison, in Fiscal Year 2012 we had 18,500 agents patrolling the Southern border. Build an additional 350 miles of actual fencing, not vehicle barriers. Implementation of mandatory E-Verify to check the legal status of new hires. Deployment and implementation of an electronic Entry-Exit system at all international air and sea ports of entry within the United States. The Department of Homeland Security, after consultation with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, the Inspector General of the Department, and the Comptroller General of the United States (GAO), has submitted a Comprehensive Southern Border Security Strategy to Congress that includes minimum requirements for each sector along the border as identified by U.S. Customs and Border Patrol and the plan has been deployed and is operational. "If you believe in strong border security, this amendment practically militarizes the border," concluded Graham. #####
06.19.2013	Alice James (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to a new ad from Friends of the Earth which calls for cutting off funding to the MOX fuel fabrication facility at Savannah River Site. Graham said: "Friends of the Earth is no friend to South Carolina. "The Department of Energy (DOE) made a commitment to South Carolina on plutonium disposition and they have a responsibility to live up to their end of the deal. Unfortunately, President Obama seems intent on reneging on this valuable program which takes tons of weapons-grade plutonium, enough to make 17,000 nuclear warheads, off the market. "President Obama and DOE must be held accountable and forced to carry through on the commitments which have been made. Never before has the local community had their faith in DOE and SRS tested as they do now. Delays in the MOX program have caused the community to once again fear that the plutonium currently at SRS will remain there indefinitely. "South Carolina has always been a willing partner in carrying out the missions critical to our national security at SRS. In fact, the community surrounding the site is widely regarded as the most supportive community of any DOE site in the country. We want to be able to continue this partnership, but recent actions from President Obama and DOE are hurting the partnership." ##### ADDITIONAL BACKGROUND: Click here: ‘Obama Administration ‘Jeopardizing' Partnership between Savannah River Site and South Carolina, Georgia over Plutonium Disposition
06.14.2013	Alice James (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Senate Armed Services Committee had adopted his amendment to strip out a provision that would have upended a policy on elective abortion in military hospitals. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand (D-New York) had inserted language into the defense authorization bill which allowed individuals¬ to pay for elective abortions in military medical facilities. Yesterday, in a closed door markup of the defense authorization bill, Graham offered his amendment to strike the provision. After debate, the Graham amendment passed 15-11. "My amendment will help ensure military hospitals do not become abortion clinics," said Graham. "I very much appreciate the strong bipartisan vote which maintains current law and ensures elective abortions are not performed at military medical facilities. As a long-time proponent of the right to life, I'm pleased we were able to beat back this ill-advised proposal." #####
06.12.2013	Alice James (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) proposed and sponsored legislation over the past two years which would cut more than $400 billion in federal spending according to a report released by the conservative National Taxpayers Union Foundation (NTUF). NTUF's ‘BillTally' reported that Graham's plan to put federal spending on a diet makes him the fifth most fiscally conservative lawmaker in the United States Senate. Among the spending items cited by the organization were his support for repealing Obamacare, repealing Dodd-Frank, passage of Cut, Cap, and Balance, and support for welfare reform. "If we do not change course in our spending habits, the United States will become Greece," said Graham, a member of the Senate Budget Committee. "It's past time we make the tough choices to control federal spending and the future growth of entitlements." According to NTUF, the ‘BillTally' report is the most methodical and comprehensive study of Congressional spending legislation. Since 1991, the NTUF project has computed a "net annual agenda" based on each Senator's or Representative's individual sponsorship or co-sponsorship of legislation. This unique approach provides an in-depth look at the fiscal behavior of lawmakers, free from the influence of committees, party leaders, and rules surrounding floor votes. All cost estimates for bills are obtained from third-party sources, Congress Members' offices, or are calculated from neutral data. The top five senators when it comes to proposing spending reductions: Senator Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) proposed cutting $650 billion; Senator James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma) proposed $470.8 billion; Former Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) proposed $463.4 billion; Senator Mike Lee (R-Utah) proposed cutting $427.7 billion; and Graham proposed cutting $408.8 billion. "Our new BillTally analysis shows the electoral response to Washington's record spending trends did stem the flow of budget increases over the past two years," said NTUF Director of Research Demian Brady. "Even though BillTally data can say as much about past Congresses as the most recent one, there's no denying lawmakers' agendas have shifted toward cuts and more moderate spending agendas." ##### NOTE: Additional information on Graham's record in support of spending cuts is available on NTUF's website and Twitter.
05.23.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today released the following statement on what we do know and what we still do not know about the attack on the U.S. Special Mission facility in Benghazi, Libya that killed four brave Americans on September 11, 2012: “What we know: Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was not aware of the classified cable that, according to published media reports, Ambassador Chris Stevens sent in August 2012 stating that the U.S. Special Mission facility in Benghazi could not survive a sustained assault from one or more of the militia groups that were operating in eastern Libya. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that he was ‘surprised’ to learn that Secretary Clinton had never seen the cable. After the initial reports about the attack in Benghazi, Secretary Panetta and General Dempsey met with President Obama during a previously scheduled meeting. Both Secretary Panetta and General Dempsey testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that this was the last time either of them spoke with the President during the attack in Benghazi. We also know that the President spoke for nearly one hour that night with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and held a press conference on the attack at the White House the following morning before departing for a political campaign event in Las Vegas, Nevada. We do not know what other actions the President took during the attack in Benghazi. The FBI debriefed U.S. personnel who were evacuated from Benghazi on September 12, 2012. It took multiple days before those reports, which made clear that there never was a spontaneous protest outside of the U.S. Mission in Benghazi, were provided to the U.S. intelligence community. On September 16, 2012, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Susan Rice, claimed the attack was a spontaneous reaction to the disgusting video, immediately after the President of the Libyan General National Congress said clearly that it was a preplanned attack that included members of al Qaeda. General Dempsey testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that the U.S. military did not provide additional support to the U.S. Mission in Benghazi prior to September 11, 2012 because they never received a request to do so – despite the fact that the U.S. Mission in Benghazi had been attacked twice in the preceding months, and despite Ambassador Stevens’ August cable stating that the U.S. Mission in Benghazi could not survive a sustained attack by militants operating in the area. Secretary Panetta testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that ‘there was no question in my mind it was a terrorist attack.’ Similarly, Senator Dianne Feinstein, the Chair of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, has cited a transcript of a September 14, 2012 meeting between then-CIA Director David Petraeus and the members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, in which, according to Senator Feinstein, ‘Petraeus very clearly said that it was a terrorist attack.’ In an address on the morning of September 12, 2012, President Obama spoke of ‘acts of terror,’ but later that day, in an interview with CBS’s ‘60 Minutes,’ he refused to characterize the attack in Benghazi as a terrorist attack. He then spent nearly two additional weeks claiming that he did not know whether the incident in Benghazi was a terrorist attack, contrary to what the then-Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have said that they believed to be true at the time. The Washington Post gave ‘Four Pinocchios’ to the President’s claim that he referred to the attack in Benghazi as terrorism on September 12, 2012. On September 16, 2012, Ambassador Rice went well beyond the talking points and made misleading statements to the American people. Her statement that ‘we’ve decimated al Qaeda’ was not in the talking points and was patently false. Across the broader Middle East, the threat from al Qaeda affiliates to the United States and our interests was growing, and Ambassador Rice’s comments presented a false picture to the American people. In addition, Ambassador Rice repeatedly suggested that the United States had a strong security presence in Benghazi. That statement was also not in the talking points and was proven false by the successful attack and the subsequent whistleblower testimony. “What we do not know: We do not know whether the President was made aware of the classified cable that, according to published media reports, Ambassador Chris Stevens sent in August 2012, stating that the U.S. Mission in Benghazi could not survive a sustained assault from one or more of the threatening militia groups that were operating in eastern Libya. We do not know whether the President’s national security staff made him aware of the attacks on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi that occurred in April and June of last year and the assassination attempt on the British Ambassador in Benghazi around the same time. If the President was informed, we do not know what actions, if any, he ordered. We do not know who within U.S. Special Operations Command, Africa ordered a U.S. special forces detachment in Tripoli not to go to Benghazi to assist the Americans under attack, and why that “stand down” order was given, as the former Deputy Chief of Mission in Tripoli, Gregory Hicks, testified to Congress. We do not know why, on the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack in American history, after multiple attacks last year on U.S. and Western interests in Libya, and with rising insecurity in countries across the Middle East, U.S. military units and assets in the region were not ready, alert, and positioned to respond in a timely fashion to what should have been a foreseeable emergency – despite the fact that there is a U.S. military base in Souda Bay, Crete, which is a short flight to Benghazi. We do not know what the President did or who he was in contact with during the seven hours of the attack, and we do not know why the President did not reach out to Libyan President Magariaf during that period of time. We still do not know the names of the survivors of the Benghazi attack, and they have not been interviewed by the Congress. We do not know why the testimonies of the U.S. personnel who were evacuated from Benghazi on September 12, 2012 – eyewitnesses who knew there never was a demonstration outside the U.S. Mission – were not shared in a timely way with, and immediately factored in to the judgments of, our intelligence community. We do not know whether this failure reflects obstacles that still exist to the free sharing of information across executive branch agencies, which was a key concern of the 9/11 Commission. We do not know why the Administration did not do more to support and assist the new Libyan government that took power after the fall of Qaddafi, including in the establishment of civilian-led national security forces that operate under central government control, a counterterrorism force that is trained and equipped to combat Al Qaeda and its affiliates, national justice and prison systems, and effective control over the immense stockpiles of weapons and dangerous materials that exist across Libya. The result of this ‘light footprint’ approach was that Al-Qaeda, its affiliated groups, and local militias were able to establish sanctuaries almost uncontested in the ungoverned spaces of eastern Libya. Some of these individuals were involved in the attack on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi.” ###
05.21.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the Senate Judiciary Committee passed three amendments introduced by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). The Graham Amendments to the bipartisan Senate immigration bill would: Require Extra Background Checks for Aliens from Dangerous Countries. The Graham Amendment requires additional background checks be performed on aliens petitioning for legalization that come from countries or regions the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State determine represent a threat to the national security of the United States. Close a Potentially Dangerous Loophole in our Asylum and Refugee Program. Another Graham Amendment would terminate an individual’s asylum or refugee status in most cases where the person returns to his or her home country. The amendment would limit the ability of those seeking asylum in the United States to travel back to their home country without approval from the Secretary of Homeland Security or Attorney General. Toughen Up on Visa Overstays. About 40 percent of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants did not illegally come across the border but simply overstayed their legal visas. A third Graham Amendment requires visa overstay information collected under a new integrated mandatory exit system be shared with federal law enforcement, intelligence, and national security agencies and that the Secretary of DHS use that information to locate and remove aliens unlawfully present. ####
05.20.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Judiciary Committee, has again cosponsored S. 946 the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, which establishes a consistent government-wide prohibition on abortion funding. “Tax dollars should not be used to fund abortions,” said Graham. The legislation would make the following policies permanent: the Hyde amendment, which prohibits funding for elective abortion coverage through any program funded through the annual Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Act, the Helms amendment, which prohibits funding for abortion as a method of family planning overseas the Smith FEHBP amendment, which prohibits funding for elective abortion coverage for federal employees, the Dornan amendment, which prohibits use of congressionally appropriated funds for abortion in the District of Columbia, other policies, such as the restrictions on elective abortion funding through Federal prisons. The legislation currently has 22 cosponsors in the Senate. The House of Representatives passed the bill 251-175 in the 112th Congress, but the legislation was not allowed for a vote in the Democrat-controlled Senate. ####
05.16.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON—Following the Justice Department’s decision to subpoena the phone records of reporters from the Associated Press (AP), U.S. Senators Charles E. Schumer (D-NY) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) urged their Senate colleagues Thursday to get behind their media shield bill. The bipartisan legislation offers legal protections to journalists engaged in newsgathering activities, while providing reasonable exceptions in national security cases in order to allow federal law enforcement to compel information that would mitigate terrorist threats. “The government has a legitimate interest in preventing and investigating leaks of classified information; at the same time, the public has a legitimate interest in a robust free press. This bill strikes a fair and reasonable balance between those interests, and we urge you to join us in advancing it,” the senators wrote in a letter to their other 98 colleagues. While it is unclear whether the bill would have changed the outcome in the AP phone records case since a national security exception may have applied, the bill would have set up a legal process for approving the subpoenas that would guarantee consideration of the public’s interest in protecting the freedom of the press. Prosecutors would have to convince a judge that the information at issue would “prevent or mitigate an act of terrorism or harm to national security.” The bill would also have compelled concurrent notice of the subpoena to the AP unless law enforcement could convince a court that special circumstances warranted a delay in the disclosure. The bill was last considered by the Senate Judiciary Committee in 2009, when it passed 14-5. A copy of Schumer and Graham’s letter to their fellow senators appears below. May 16, 2013 Dear Colleague, We write to encourage you to co-sponsor the Free Flow of Information Act, legislation we are introducing shortly. In the wake of the debate about the subpoena of Associated Press phone records, it has become even more evident that we need unambiguous and fair rules of the road. The Free Flow of Information Act, also known as the media shield bill, would provide clear and meaningful protection at the federal level for journalists against improper intrusion into the free press. The bill would prohibit demands for protected information (such as confidential source information) from journalists unless a court determines that the public interest is better served by disclosure of the information than by protecting the journalist’s source. The legislation includes carefully crafted exceptions for national security—in cases where a judge finds that the information sought is necessary to prevent terrorism or harm to national security, the information must be disclosed. However, a judge will still have to approve that request. In addition, the bill treats requests for records from third parties—such as phone companies—in the same manner as requests from journalists themselves, and requires notice to those journalists when such a request is made. The legislation we are introducing represents the product of extensive negotiations between the journalism community and the national security experts in the Administration, and has won the support of both the Administration and the Newspaper Association of America. It passed out of the Senate Judiciary committee by a strong bipartisan vote in 2009. In sum, the bill is a balanced approach that meets both the needs of the press and the needs of our national security. The facts in the AP phone records case are still coming to light, so we cannot say for certain whether the bill would have changed the ultimate outcome. However, it would undoubtedly have ensured a fairer, more deliberate process, and would have set up a legal, predictable framework for a court to approve the subpoenas that would guarantee consideration of the public’s interest in protecting the freedom of the press. The government has a legitimate interest in preventing and investigating leaks of classified information; at the same time, the public has a legitimate interest in a robust free press. This bill strikes a fair and reasonable balance between those interests, and we urge you to join us in advancing it. Sincerely, Senator Charles E. Schumer Senator Lindsey Graham
05.15.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today demanded the Obama Administration fully cooperate with a congressional investigation into the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) targeting conservative groups. “The American people deserve to know what actions will be taken to ensure those who made these policy decisions at the IRS are being held fully accountable and more importantly what is being done to ensure that this kind of raw partisanship is fully eliminated from these critically important non-partisan government functions,” wrote Graham and Senate colleagues. Full text of the letter, which was signed by all 45 Republican senators, is below: The Honorable Barack Obama 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our grave concerns and deep disappointment about the revelations in a report by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA) that the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) had specifically targeted certain organizations for extra scrutiny as part of their approval review of applications for tax-exempt 501(c)(4) status. This appears to be a wholly inappropriate action that threatens to silence political dissent and brings partisan politics into what used to be a nonpartisan, unbiased and fact-based review process. The public’s confidence in the IRS relies on fair and apolitical application of the law. Actions such as these undermine taxpayers’ ability to trust its government to fairly implement the law. According to information given to Congress in a timeline provided by the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration (TIGTA), in early 2010 "specialists had been asked to be on the lookout for Tea Party applications, and the IRS Determinations Unit had begun searching its database for applications with 'Tea Party,' 'Patriots,' or '9/12' in the organization's name.” The report goes on to state that “By June 2011, some IRS specialists were probing applications using the following criteria to identify tea-party cases, according to the Treasury inspector general findings: "'Tea Party,' 'Patriots' or '9/12 Project' is referenced in the case file; issues include government spending, government debt or taxes; education of the public by advocacy/lobbying to 'make America a better place to live'; statements in the case file criticize how the country is being run." We are deeply disturbed that agents of the government were directed to give greater scrutiny to groups engaged in conduct questioning the actions of their government. This type of purely political scrutiny being conducted by an Executive Branch Agency is yet another completely inexcusable attempt to chill the speech of political opponents and those who would question their government, consistent with a broader pattern of intimidation by arms of your administration to silence political dissent. These disclosures are even more unsettling as they contradict prior statements made by representatives of the Administration on this matter. In response to questions raised in 2012 on this issue by Republican Senators, Steven T. Miller, the Deputy Commissioner for Services and Enforcement at the IRS, specifically (and falsely) stated that there was an unbiased, technical screening process used to determine which applications for 501(c)(4) organizations merited further review. In two separate letters to Finance Committee Ranking Member Orrin Hatch, Mr. Miller failed to note that explicitly political screens were used in reviewing applications, despite the fact the practice was apparently well known within the IRS as early as 2010.[1] Given these strong and clear statements by the Administration in 2012 that no such targeted review or specified politically motivated criteria existed, these revelations raise serious questions about the entire application review process, and the controls in place at the IRS to stop this sort of political interference once and for all. According to TIGTA these actions took place more than two years ago, yet without this information becoming public, there is no evidence that your administration would have done anything to make sure these abuses were brought to light and dealt with in a transparent way. The American people deserve to know what actions will be taken to ensure those who made these policy decisions at the IRS are being held fully accountable and more importantly what is being done to ensure that this kind of raw partisanship is fully eliminated from these critically important non-partisan government functions. As such, we demand that your Administration comply with all requests related to Congressional inquiries without any delay, including making available all IRS employees involved in designing and implementing these prohibited political screenings, so that the public has a full accounting of these actions. It is imperative that the Administration be fully forthcoming to ensure that we begin to restore the confidence of our fellow citizens after this blatant violation of their trust. We look forward to working on this critical issue with the Administration’s full cooperation. ####
05.15.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – The United States senators representing the states of South Carolina and Georgia – Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Tim Scott (R-South Carolina), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) and Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia) today warned that the Obama administration is jeopardizing the 60-year partnership between the Savannah River Site and both states over its interest in changing the agreed-upon plan to dispose of surplus weapons-grade plutonium. In 2000, with the signing of the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement (PDMA) with the Russian Federation, the United States and Russia agreed to dispose of 68 metric tons of weapons-grade plutonium. The United States’ plan would send American plutonium to the Savannah River Site (SRS) where it would be turned into commercial nuclear fuel (MOX). In 2010, President Obama hailed the plutonium disposition agreement in a joint press conference with Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, and noted it prevented terrorists from acquiring these materials. Now, the Obama administration is seemingly backing away from the MOX program and the agreements made with the state of South Carolina. The senators noted four areas of concern with the Obama Administration’s plan to slow, if not completely scrap, the MOX program: Delays to the MOX program threaten American national security; Potential alternatives to MOX have already been studied and they fail to meet our economic or nonproliferation needs; Reassessment of the MOX program adds billions of additional costs and uncertainty domestically; and Plans to again study plutonium disposition alternatives destroy 60 years of collaboration with South Carolina and the Savannah River Site. “It is with great dismay that your Fiscal Year 2014 budget request risks the future of the PMDA and the MOX program,” wrote the senators. “Your budget request will result in the breaking of our international agreement with Russia, the stranding of up to 68 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium, the addition of billions of dollars in increased costs to the government, and the violation of commitments the federal government has made to the state of South Carolina. This is unacceptable and we will be looking to use the confirmation, authorization, and appropriations processes to ensure the program moves forward.” “A fundamental component to the MOX project involves assurances to South Carolina regarding the ultimate disposition of the plutonium,” said the senators. “Never before has the local community had their faith in DOE and SRS tested as they do now. The delays in the MOX program have caused the community to once again fear that the plutonium currently in state will remain there indefinitely. “The residents of South Carolina and Georgia have always been willing partners of DOE in carrying out missions critical to our national security at SRS,” wrote the senators. “The residents of the states have never hesitated to support the mission of SRS even though it resulted in the shipment, storage, and use of some of the most dangerous items known to man. In fact, the community surrounding the site is widely regarded as the most supportive community of any DOE site in the country. We want to be able to continue this partnership.” ##### Full text of the letter to President Obama: May 13, 2013 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear Mr. President: On June 24, 2010, on the heels of your Nuclear Security Summit, where you trumpeted a major non-proliferation agreement with Russia, you held a joint press conference with Russian President Medvedev, and stated that, “…to prevent terrorists from acquiring nuclear weapons, we came together at our Nuclear Security Summit, where our two nations made numerous commitments, including agreeing to eliminate enough plutonium for about 17,000 nuclear weapons.” This statement was the culmination of years of work that began in 2000 with the signing of the Plutonium Management and Disposition Agreement (PMDA) with Russia to dispose of 68 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium. The program involved sending plutonium to the Savannah River Site (SRS) in South Carolina where it would be turned into commercial nuclear fuel at the Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility (MOX). Now it is with great dismay that your Fiscal Year 2014 budget request risks the future of the PMDA and the MOX program. Your budget request will result in the breaking of our international agreement with Russia, the stranding of up to 68 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium, the addition of billions of dollars in increased costs to the government, and the violation of commitments the federal government has made to the state of South Carolina. This is unacceptable and we will be looking to use the confirmation, authorization, and appropriations processes to ensure the program moves forward. Your recently submitted budget request calls for slowing down the MOX project while the Administration conducts an assessment of alternative plutonium disposition strategies. Officials at the Department of Energy (DOE) and National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) have been unable to explain exactly what this means. They are unable to provide an idea as to who will conduct the study, the length of the study, or the options being studied. They are unable to explain what the impact of the budget request will have on the construction of the facility, the impact on the schedule for the disposition of plutonium, or a cost estimate for the increased storage costs due to any additional delays that result from the study. Additionally, nobody has been able to explain how the Administration plans to comply with Section 4306 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 USC 2566) which mandates at least one metric ton of plutonium be processed through MOX or be removed from South Carolina by 2016 or the federal government will be liable for fines to South Carolina of up to $100 million per year. While we would like to work with you and the contractor to reduce construction and operating costs at MOX, make no mistake; the decision to slow down the plutonium disposition project makes no sense from a national security or an economic point of view. Your decision violates the commitments that were made to South Carolina and jeopardizes a 60-year partnership between the Savannah River Site (SRS) and the state. We will not allow this ill-conceived plan to proceed. Delays to the MOX program threaten our national security As a result of your budget request, the U.S. will be forced to notify Russia that it cannot meet the 2018 start date of plutonium disposition as set forth in the PMDA or conversely, that it is withdrawing from its obligations under the PMDA. In turn, this can be expected to cause Russia to slow down or halt its plutonium disposition efforts. If this were to happen, 34 metric tons of surplus Russian plutonium would then become available for re-use in nuclear weapons or become subject to an increased risk of theft or diversion. In addition, delaying plutonium disposition sends a strong signal to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and the world community that the U.S. is walking back on its support for nuclear nonproliferation. Delaying or canceling MOX eliminates the means by which the U.S. is able to dispose of additional quantities of surplus weapons grade plutonium from future stockpile reductions and/or Arms Control Agreements. Reassessment of the MOX program adds billions of additional costs and uncertainty domestically While we share your concern about the cost increases associated with the plutonium disposition program, your budget request does nothing to reduce these costs. A decision to significantly delay construction of the MOX facility would likely kill the overall plutonium disposition effort and leave the U.S. with no means to dispose of its stocks of surplus weapons grade plutonium. This would leave 34 metric tons of plutonium stranded with no disposition path at SRS in South Carolina, Pantex in Texas, and other sites across the country. As a result, the government will be forced to continue its current program of storing and monitoring this nuclear material indefinitely. The storage of this material alone costs hundreds of millions of dollars annually. A decision to slow down or halt MOX construction can be expected to have an adverse impact on operations at Pantex which currently stores the U.S. inventory of surplus and non-surplus plutonium pits. A significant fraction of Pantex’s pit inventory is destined for fabrication into MOX fuel on a just-in-time processing basis. Furthermore, current and expected future declines in the active stockpile are expected to increase the number of pits already stored at Pantex, creating a need for tens and perhaps hundreds of millions of dollars to design and construct safe, secure additional pit storage capacity at Pantex in the event that plutonium disposition at SRS does not take place. Consequently, any significant delay to MOX construction or concomitant funding reduction would lead to the lay off of hundreds of highly-skilled nuclear craft workers employed on the project, workers it takes years and significant cost to hire and train. Potential alternatives to MOX fail to meet our economic or nonproliferation needs Studies on how best to dispose of surplus plutonium have been ongoing since 1995. In 2001, a study prepared for the National Security Council by NNSA, Analysis of Options for U.S. and Russian Plutonium Management and Disposition, evaluated more than 40 approaches for plutonium disposition with 12 distinct options selected for detailed analysis, i.e., six mixed-oxide (MOX)-based reactor disposition options, two advanced reactor disposition options, and four non-reactor options (immobilization and long-term storage). MOX has always been the best option to meet our nonproliferation goals at the best cost to the taxpayer. Any alternative to MOX would add years to the plutonium disposition process and would come with additional complications. For example, if the government were to pursue vitrification, it would take years of additional research and development in order to research, design, license and construct a vitrification facility. This would be further complicated by the fact that according to NNSA, vitrification/immobilization is no longer an option because there are insufficient quantities of high level waste (HLW) in the SRS waste tanks to immobilize over 40 metric tons of weapons grade plutonium. Vitrification also fails to meet the nonproliferation goals of putting the plutonium beyond re-use. With the half-life of plutonium being 24,000 years, the most expensive option was long-term storage because it requires the expenditure of many millions of dollars a year for storage, security, and health physics after which, the U.S. government would still have to pay for disposition. This plan destroys 60 years of collaboration with South Carolina and the Savannah River Site Importantly, your current plan will destroy over 60 years of collaboration with South Carolina and Georgia. The residents of South Carolina and Georgia have always been willing partners of DOE in carrying out missions critical to our national security at SRS. The residents of the states have never hesitated to support the mission of SRS even though it resulted in the shipment, storage, and use of some of the most dangerous items known to man. In fact, the community surrounding the site is widely regarded as the most supportive community of any DOE site in the country. We want to be able to continue this partnership. A fundamental component to the MOX project involves assurances to South Carolina regarding the ultimate disposition of the plutonium. Never before has the local community had their faith in DOE and SRS tested as they do now. The delays in the MOX program have caused the community to once again fear that the plutonium currently in state will remain there indefinitely. During your first term, you made an effort to focus the government’s attention on securing the supply of nuclear weapons around the world. Cancellation of the MOX program after investing 17 years to study disposition alternatives, completing the necessary environmental reviews, designing the facility, obtaining the necessary Nuclear Regulatory Commission construction license, appropriating and spending hundreds of millions in the effort and completing more that 60% of the actual MOX Facility would be a terrible blemish on DOE’s reputation for completing major construction projects. After signing an agreement with Russia that has been ratified by the Duma, getting the Director General of the IAEA to agree to monitor plutonium disposition in each country and testifying for years to Congress and the American public about the urgent need to eliminate surplus weapons-usable fissile materials in speeches by various Presidents, National Security Advisers, Secretaries of Energy, Secretaries of State and other senior U.S. government officials, to now cancel the MOX Project would be a major domestic and international embarrassment which will take years to recover from. Sincerely, Lindsey Graham Tim Scott Saxby Chambliss Johnny Isakson
05.13.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today released the following statement on President Obama’s comments this afternoon on the attack against the U.S. Special Mission facility in Benghazi, Libya that killed four brave Americans on September 11, 2012: “During a press conference this afternoon, President Obama claimed that, ‘The day after [Benghazi] happened, I acknowledged that this was an act of terrorism.’ This statement contradicts his comments over the course of two weeks after the attack in which the President repeatedly and specifically refused, in the heat of his re-election campaign, to label Benghazi a terrorist attack, despite the fact that there was compelling evidence that it was an al Qaeda-affiliated terrorist attack. “To be clear, on September 12th in the Rose Garden, President Obama made a generic reference to ‘acts of terror.’ But that same day he was specifically asked by Steve Kroft of CBS’ ‘60 Minutes’ if he believed Benghazi was a terrorist attack, and the President refused to say so, stating, ‘it’s too early to know exactly how this came about, what group was involved.’ Six days later on ‘The Late Show with David Letterman,’ the President was asked what happened in Benghazi and responded by blaming the attack on an ‘extremely offensive video.’ Two days after that on Univision, the President said ‘we’re still doing an investigation,’ and blamed it in part on ‘the natural protests that arose because of the outrage over the video.’ Four days later on ‘The View,’ Joy Behar asked specifically if it was an act of terrorism, and the President again said ‘we’re still doing an investigation.’ The next day, in remarks to the United Nations in New York a full two weeks after the attack, President Obama still made no reference to Benghazi as an act of terrorism but blamed recent violence on ‘a crude and disgusting video [that] sparked outrage throughout the Muslim world.’ “In light of recent revelations and whistleblower testimony last week before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, it is very clear that we need a Joint Select Committee to resolve these contradictions and answer the many other unanswered questions about this tragedy. The Administration is spinning the American people and stonewalling Congress. This is unacceptable. The American people and the loved ones of those killed in Benghazi deserve to know the truth.” PRESIDENT OBAMA ON BENGHAZI: SEPTEMBER 12-25 September 12, Rose Garden: President Obama makes generic reference to “no act of terror” OBAMA: "No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this great nation, alter that character, or eclipse the light of the values that we stand for." September 12, CBS’ “60 Minutes:” Answering question about whether he believes that Libya “was a terrorist attack,” President Obama says “It’s too early to know exactly how this came about, what group was involved …” KROFT: "Mr. President, this morning you went out of your way to avoid the use of the word terrorism in connection with the Libya Attack, do you believe that this was a terrorist attack?" OBAMA: "Well it’s too early to know exactly how this came about, what group was involved, but obviously it was an attack on Americans. And we are going to be working with the Libyan government to make sure that we bring these folks to justice, one way or the other." September 18, CBS’ “Late Show with David Letterman:” President Obama blames attack on “extremely offensive video” LETTERMAN: “Now, I don’t understand, um, the ambassador to Libya killed in an attack on the consulate in Benghazi. Is this an act of war? Are we at war now? What happens here?” OBAMA: “Here's what happened. ... You had a video that was released by somebody who lives here, sort of a shadowy character who – who is extremely offensive video directed at – at Mohammed and Islam…” LETTERMAN: “Making fun of the Prophet Mohammed.” OBAMA: “Making fun of the Prophet Mohammed. And so, this caused great offense in much of the Muslim world. But what also happened was, extremists and terrorists used this as an excuse to attack a variety of our embassies, including the one, the consulate in Libya.” September 20, Univision: President Obama says “we’re still doing an investigation” UNIVISION: “We have reports that the White House said today that the attacks in Libya were a terrorist attack. Do you have information indicating that it was Iran, or al Qaeda was behind organizing the protests?” OBAMA: “Well, we're still doing an investigation, and there are going to be different circumstances in different countries. And so I don’t want to speak to something until we have all the information. What we do know is that the natural protests that arose because of the outrage over the video were used as an excuse by extremists to see if they can also directly harm U.S. interests...” September 24, “The View:” President Obama says “we’re still doing an investigation” JOY BEHAR: "It was reported that people just went crazy and wild because of this anti-Muslim movie, or anti-Muhammad, I guess, movie. But then I heard Hillary Clinton say that it was an act of terrorism. Is it? What do you say?" OBAMA: "Well, we’re still doing an investigation. There’s no doubt that the kind of weapons that were used, the ongoing assault, that it wasn’t just a mob action. Now, we don’t have all the information yet, so we’re still gathering it. But what’s clear is that around the world, there’s still a lot of threats out there. That’s why we have to maintain the strongest military in the world, that’s why we can’t let down our guard when it comes to the intelligence work that we do and staying on top of — not just al Qaeda, the traditional al Qaeda in Pakistan and Afghanistan..." September 25, President Obama to United Nations: “A crude and disgusting video sparked outrage throughout the Muslim world…” OBAMA: "That is what we saw play out in the last two weeks, as a crude and disgusting video sparked outrage throughout the Muslim world. Now, I have made it clear that the United States government had nothing to do with this video, and I believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our common humanity. ... And on this we must agree: There is no speech that justifies mindless violence. There are no words that excuse the killing of innocents. There's no video that justifies an attack on an embassy." ###
05.08.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON—Today, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Mike Lee (R-Utah) and Ted Cruz (R-Texas) released a letter they sent to Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel requesting confirmation of the rights of members of the armed services to practice and share their faith. The letter is a response to recent media reports indicating potential changes to military regulations governing the discussion of religion by members of the military. "Policies that prohibit the discussion of religious matters by military members, " they write, "could create a chilling effect on members of the armed services of any faith and have an adverse effect on recruitment and retention efforts and the morale of our troops." The full text of the letter is available here. ###
05.01.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON— U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) today called on President Obama to release the names of the Benghazi survivors. “In light of your comments yesterday about the Benghazi attacks, we again request your Administration immediately provide the names of the Benghazi survivors to Congress so we can conduct interviews to gain a clearer understanding of what happened before, during, and after the attack. “This information will allow Congress to meet its oversight obligations and will help ensure our government is taking the proper steps to protect American lives abroad and prevent future terrorist attacks.” Click here to view the letter. Full text is below: May 1, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC Dear President Obama: In light of your comments yesterday about the Benghazi attacks, we again request your Administration immediately provide the names of the Benghazi survivors to Congress so we can conduct interviews to gain a clearer understanding of what happened before, during, and after the attack. This information will allow Congress to meet its oversight obligations and will help ensure our government is taking the proper steps to protect American lives abroad and prevent future terrorist attacks. Please ensure these names are provided to the appropriate committee(s) for possible interviews and correspondence. While we respect that the names of certain survivors may need to be kept confidential, we’re confident any privacy or national security concerns will be addressed by the appropriate committee(s). Thank you for your assistance with this important matter. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham John McCain Kelly Ayotte ####
04.30.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today released the following statement on President Obama’s remarks on Syria at his press conference this morning: “In explaining his Syria policy today, President Obama was forced to defend the indefensible. It is true that the Administration has not done ‘nothing’ in Syria. But it is also impossible to escape the reality that nothing it has done has been sufficient to end this conflict. As a result, our national security interests and the safety of our friends and allies in the region are in growing danger. “The uncertainty and ambiguity of our policy towards Syria has contributed to our current crisis. By drawing a ‘red line’ on chemical weapons, the President actually gave Assad a green light to use every other weapon in his arsenal with impunity. Tens of thousands of Syrian civilians have been killed indiscriminately with artillery, helicopter gunships, fighter jets, and SCUD missiles. Now Assad has crossed the President’s red line. The credibility of the United States is on the line, not just with Syria, but with Iran, North Korea, and all of our enemies and friends who are watching closely to see whether the President backs up his words with action. Unfortunately, the red line has been blurred with each passing day. It will not be long before Assad takes this delay as an invitation to use chemical weapons again on an even larger scale. Both the humanitarian and strategic consequences that will result from such an act are horrific: It will further destabilize Syria, which is at great risk of becoming a failed state and a safe haven for Al Qaeda. “Rather than continue with this reactive approach, and outsource the initiative for U.S. policy to Assad, the President needs to lead. He needs to articulate exactly what outcome in Syria would best serve America’s national security interests, what strategy is required to achieve that goal, and what means we need to employ together with our friends and allies to achieve success. There are many options at our disposal, including military options short of boots on the ground in Syria, that can make a positive impact on this crisis, which is destabilizing the region. The President must act now or risk squandering U.S. credibility in Syria and around the world.” ###
04.30.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON—U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) today renewed their call for Senate leadership to appoint a joint select committee to investigate the Obama Administration’s handling before, during, and after the September 11, 2012 attack in Benghazi: “We are once again calling on our Senate leadership to appoint a joint select committee to investigate the terror attacks on Benghazi. “Revelations about witnesses being afraid to testify and military assets that could have been deployed in a timely fashion justify appointing a joint select committee. “In light of these new revelations it is imperative that we learn everything we can from what happened before, during and after the attacks. We cannot allow those who serve our nation to feel abandoned when under attack, or by Congress afterwards. “A joint select committee is the most appropriate way to get to the bottom of what happened in Benghazi. “As with any investigation, the longer we delay, the harder it is to find the truth. We have already waited too long. “We urge Senate leadership to act immediately to set up this joint select committee.” ###
04.30.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today responded to President Obama’s comments on national security: “With all due respect Mr. President, Benghazi and Boston are compelling examples of how our national security systems have deteriorated on your watch. “In Benghazi, multiple requests for increased security were denied and numerous warnings from Ambassador Stevens about the growing threats from al Qaeda were ignored by Washington. For over seven and a half hours during the attack our Americans in the field were abandoned. After the attack, your Administration provided misleading information to the American people. “In Boston, both the FBI and CIA were warned by the Russians about a radical Islamist in our midst. Once enrolled in the system as a potential terror suspect, the older brother was able to travel back to Russia unimpeded by DHS or any of our intelligence agencies. Agencies under your control were unable to coordinate the information they received on the Boston terrorists. “If Benghazi is not an example of system failure before, during and after the attack what would be? If Boston is not an example of a pre-9/11 stove piping mentality what would be?” #####
04.20.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and Congressman Peter King (R-New York) today made the following statement. “We applaud our law enforcement for their hard work and bravery in Boston. “It is clear the events we have seen over the past few days in Boston were an attempt to kill American citizens and terrorize a major American city. The accused perpetrators of these acts were not common criminals attempting to profit from a criminal enterprise, but terrorists trying to injure, maim, and kill innocent Americans. “The suspect, based upon his actions, clearly is a good candidate for enemy combatant status. We do not want this suspect to remain silent. “We are encouraged our High value detainee interrogation team (HIG) is now involved and working to gather intelligence about how these terrible acts were committed and possibility of future attacks. “A decision to not read Miranda rights to the suspect was sound and in our national security interests. “However, we have concerns that limiting this investigation to 48 hours and exclusively relying on the public safety exception to Miranda, could very well be a national security mistake. It could severely limit our ability to gather critical information about future attacks from this suspect. “We should be focused on gathering intelligence from this suspect right now that can help our nation understand how this attack occurred and what may follow in the future. That should be our focus, not a future domestic criminal trial that may take years to complete. “The public safety exception is a domestic criminal law doctrine that allows questioning of a criminal suspect without Miranda warnings for a limited time and purpose. “We hope the Obama Administration will consider the enemy combatant option because it is allowed by national security statutes and U.S. Supreme Court decisions. “We continue to face threats from radical Islamists in small cells and large groups throughout the world. They have, as their primary focus, killing as many Americans as possible, preferably within the United States. We must never lose sight of this fact and act appropriately within our laws and values. ##### Law of War / National Security Detainment * American citizens who take up arms against our nation or collaborate with our enemies have been held as enemy combatants. This is well-established principle of American jurisprudence and authorized by congressional statute. (“There is no bar to this Nation’s holding one of its own citizens as enemy combatant.” -- Supreme Court decision Hamdi v Rumsfeld) * Criminal domestic law is focused on solving a crime. The Law of War is focused on protecting our national security. * An enemy combatant held under the Law of War is not entitled to Miranda rights or appointment of counsel. * The questioning of an enemy combatant for national security purposes has no limit on time or scope. In a case like this it could take weeks to prepare the questions that are needed to be asked and months before intelligence gathering is completed. * An enemy combatant is entitled to a habeas hearing before a federal judge with appointment of a counsel. This takes place, usually, within 30 days of capture. * The focus of the habeas hearing would be whether or not there is evidence to justify the enemy combatant status determination which would then allow continued confinement for intelligence gathering. * As to any future trial, if this suspect is an American citizen he is not subject to military commission trial. This exclusion, was authored by Senator Graham in the Military Commissions Act. * Under the Law of War, the suspect must be humanely treated, consistent with the Detainee Treatment Act, and other domestic law, and the Geneva Conventions. * In the future, when the suspect is committed to our federal court system he will have all the rights associated with that system.
04.19.2013	Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) tonight made the following statement. “We truly appreciate the hard work and dedication of our law enforcement and intelligence communities. "It is clear the events we have seen over the past few days in Boston were an attempt to kill American citizens and terrorize a major American city. The accused perpetrators of these acts were not common criminals attempting to profit from a criminal enterprise, but terrorist trying to injure, maim, and kill innocent Americans. "Now that the suspect is in custody, the last thing we should want is for him to remain silent. It is absolutely vital the suspect be questioned for intelligence gathering purposes. We need to know about any possible future attacks which could take additional American lives. The least of our worries is a criminal trial which will likely be held years from now. "Under the Law of War we can hold this suspect as a potential enemy combatant not entitled to Miranda warnings or the appointment of counsel. Our goal at this critical juncture should be to gather intelligence and protect our nation from further attacks. "We remain under threat from radical Islam and we hope the Obama Administration will seriously consider the enemy combatant option. “We will stand behind the Administration if they decide to hold this suspect as an enemy combatant.”
04.18.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on his votes on gun violence legislation in the United States Senate today. “President Obama wanted three things on gun control -- ban assault weapons, limit magazine sizes, and expand background checks. He lost on all three. “I’ve always been confident if the Senate debated the Second Amendment, the Second Amendment would win. Today we saw that President Obama’s politically-driven solutions to gun violence could not withstand scrutiny from Congress and the American people. Substance won out over the unsound solutions President Obama and others were pushing. “I’m very pleased the Senate took up, debated, and voted on gun violence legislation. I was always ready and willing to vote in support of what I believe.” ##### Graham on Senate Amendments: Graham Voted Against the Manchin-Toomey Background Check Amendment (Failed 54-46, required 60 votes) “No matter how well-intentioned, the Manchin-Toomey amendment expanded background checks in an unwise way. The internet provisions would have been burdensome and difficult for citizens to comply with. In addition, it contained provisions making advertising a firearm in a community or church bulletin subject to the same processes as if buying from a licensed dealer.” Introduced and Voted in Support of the Grassley-Cruz-Graham Substitute Amendment (Failed 52-48, required 60 votes) “I was very proud the Grassley-Cruz-Graham amendment received a majority vote. I hope the House of Representatives will take up this bipartisan legislation which focuses on ensuring people like Alice Boland are in the National Instant Criminal Background (NICS) system. The legislation included important provisions for school resource officers. It holds the Department of Justice accountable for the gun laws they have not enforced. It was supported by the National Rifle Association and provided real-world practical solutions to the problem of gun violence. I strongly encourage the U.S. House of Representatives to take up and pass our legislation.” Graham Voted Against the Feinstein Amendment Banning Assault Weapons (Failed 40-60, required 60 votes) “The assault weapons ban didn’t work in the 1990’s and it won’t work now. I, along with millions of other Americans, own an AR-15. Only a fraction of the murders committed in the country involve any type of rifle and the Feinstein assault weapons ban does not address the real problems of gun violence.” Graham Voted in Support of the Cornyn National Conceal-Carry Reciprocity Legislation (Failed 57-43, required 60 votes) “I voted for this amendment because it would allow a person with a valid state-issued concealed firearm permit to carry in other states that do not prohibit concealed carry.” Graham Voted Against the Lautenberg-Blumenthal Amendment Limiting Magazine Size (Failed 46-54, required 60 votes) “One bullet in the hands of a homicidal maniac is one too many. But in the case of a young mother defending her children against a home invader -- a real-life event which recently occurred near Atlanta -- six bullets may not be enough. Criminals aren’t going to follow legislation limiting magazine capacity. However, a limit could put law-abiding citizens at a distinct disadvantage when confronting a criminal.” #####
04.16.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s passage of S. Res. 65, a bipartisan resolution Graham introduced expressing concerns about the Iranian nuclear threat and the need for the United States to stand with Israel. Graham’s resolution, which currently has 81 cosponsors, now goes to the Senate floor for consideration. “Our bond with Israel is deep. We have no better friend in that part of the world than Israel,” said Graham. “Last year President Obama told the people of Israel, ‘We have your back.’ Our resolution builds upon that statement and makes it clear that we will stand with Israel should Israel be forced to protect itself from Iran. I appreciate the Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s passage of this important resolution.” The resolution: Declares that the United States has a vital national interest in and unbreakable commitment to, ensuring the existence, survival, and security of the State of Israel. Reaffirms the United States support for Israel’s right to self-defense. Urges that if Israel is compelled to take military action in self-defense, the United States will stand with Israel and provide diplomatic, military, and economic support in its defense of its territory, people, and existence. ####
04.15.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he will oppose the Toomey-Manchin background check amendment. A vote is expected in the Senate tomorrow or Wednesday. “The Toomey-Manchin proposal, while well-intentioned, is not a solution to illegal gun violence. We already have major holes in the current National Instant Criminal Background (NICS) system. There are thousands of people who have been adjudicated as a danger to themselves and others who are not currently in the NICS system. Additionally, in 2010 over 13,000 fugitives failed a background check yet less than 15 people were successfully prosecuted. Instead of expanding a broken background check system, let’s fix it. “I have bipartisan legislation which would accomplish that goal. I hope the Senate will soon debate and approve my legislation.” #####
04.11.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate now moving to debate gun control. “I welcome a debate on the Second Amendment in the United States Senate. I want to proceed to this bill. I want to debate it. I am not afraid. “Some have asked why I opposed filibustering a procedural motion to move forward. Here’s my reasoning. Many Senators have refused to even take a position on some of these issues for fear of angering one side or the other. There’s only one way to see where Senators actually stand – make them vote. Filibustering right now means Senators get a free pass. Some politicians’ dream scenario is one where they don’t actually have to vote For or Against a proposal but can tell each side they were with them all along. Again, let’s make Senators vote. Nothing the Democrats are proposing would have prevented the Sandy Hook massacre. We need Senators on record. Do you support these proposals? The legislation can still be filibustered after today in the United States Senate. And even if gun control legislation passes the Democratic-controlled U.S. Senate it is unlikely to pass the Republican-controlled House of Representatives. Finally, I have my own legislation, supported by the NRA, which I want to bring forward in the Senate. My legislation would make a real difference in keeping guns out of the wrong hands. It’s designed to prevent individuals like Alice Boland, a mentally disturbed individual who once pled ‘Not Guilty By Reason of Insanity’ in federal court for threatening to kill the President of the United States from legally buying a firearm. Under current law, she was able to pass a background check, buy a pistol, and go to Ashley Hall School in Charleston where she tried to shoot several school officials. One bullet in her hands is one too many. “Again, I welcome a debate on gun control and you should too. The American people deserve to see where their elected representatives stand on the Second Amendment. Let’s vote.” #####
04.09.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on Boeing’s announced $1 billion expansion to its Charleston plant. The investment is expected to create 2,000 jobs. Graham said: “Today’s decision validates my belief South Carolina is the best place in the country to do business. This is huge news for our economy. It also shows that Boeing made the right decision to locate in South Carolina. I look forward to the continued strong, mutually beneficial relationship between Boeing, the local workforce, and the state of South Carolina in years to come.” #####
04.08.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of Margaret Thatcher. "Margaret Thatcher was one of the great role models in the history of the conservative movement. "Her foreign policy was clear eyed and firm. She, along with Ronald Reagan and Pope John Paul II stood up to communism, the great evil of their time, with an uncompromising conviction. They understood the ideology was evil and restricted the better nature of mankind. "Domestically, she took Great Britain off the path to socialism and unleashed the power of the British people. Her belief in the power of the individual over the false security of reliance on government control inspires to this day. "During the coming days she will receive much adulation and credit, but in my view the best way to pay homage to Margaret Thatcher is to follow on the path she laid out -- trust in the people and stand up to evil when you find it. "The great evil of our day is radical Islam and the world would be served well if today's political leaders show the same determination to defeat radical Islam Margaret Thatcher, Ronald Reagan and Pope John Paul II displayed to standing up to communism. "Both ideologies, communism and radical Islam, intend to enslave the human spirit. With the passing of Margaret Thatcher let us all recommit ourselves to standing up to radical Islam, the great evil of our time." #####
03.21.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) released the following statement regarding the Administration’s decision to bring alleged al Qaeda operative Ibrahim Suleiman Adnan Adam Harun to the United States for trial in civilian court: “We are deeply concerned that this Administration’s pattern of rushing to indict foreign enemy belligerents like Ibrahim Suleiman Adnan Adam Harun in civilian court – rather than detaining them in military custody at Guantanamo – has undermined our nation’s intelligence collection efforts and made our country less safe. “Harun is a foreign member of al Qaeda who has allegedly attempted to kill U.S. military personnel in Afghanistan and participated in planning or carrying out an attack against Americans in Nigeria. As such, he should be treated as a foreign enemy belligerent at war with our country – not a common criminal. “Based on Section 1022 of the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act, there is no doubt he should be placed in military custody at Guantanamo. “It is important to remember that law of war detention, under which our intelligence community can easily return to question detainees months or even years later, helped connect the dots that ultimately led to Osama bin Laden. “When we place individuals like Harun and Sulaiman abu Ghayth in our civilian legal system, read them their Miranda Rights, and focus on prosecution rather than intelligence collection, we miss valuable information that will prevent future attacks.” ####
03.19.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on Syria: “We are extremely disturbed by reports that chemical weapons have been used today in Syria. President Obama has said that the use of weapons of mass destruction by Bashar Assad is a ‘red line’ for him that ‘will have consequences.’ If today’s reports are substantiated, the President’s red line has been crossed, and we would urge him to take immediate action to impose the consequences he has promised. That should include the provision of arms to vetted Syrian opposition groups, targeted strikes against Assad’s aircraft and SCUD missile batteries on the ground, and the establishment of safe zones inside Syria to protect civilians and opposition groups. If today’s reports are substantiated, the tragic irony will be that these are the exact same actions that could have prevented the use of weapons of mass destruction in Syria. “It is imperative that the Administration come up with a plan to secure the chemical weapons sites in a post-Assad Syria. We cannot imagine a more volatile scenario for the Mideast and our own national security than to have these chemical weapons caches fall into radical Islamist hands. We need to take this threat seriously and time is not on our side.” ###
03.08.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) released the following statement regarding the Administration’s decision to bring alleged al Qaeda member Sulaiman Abu Ghayth to the United States for trial in civilian court: “We are disturbed by the Administration’s decision to bring Sulaiman Abu Ghayth—a foreign member of al Qaeda charged with conspiring to kill Americans – to New York for trial in federal court. The Obama Administration’s lack of a war-time detention policy for foreign members of al Qaeda, as well as its refusal to detain and interrogate these individuals at Guantanamo, makes our nation less safe. “We are at war with al Qaeda and its affiliated groups, and America’s detention policy must reflect that reality. “Military detention for enemy combatants has been the rule, not the exception. By processing terrorists like Sulaiman Abu Ghayth through civilian courts, the Administration risks missing important opportunities to gather intelligence to prevent future attacks and save lives. “A foreign member of al Qaeda should never be treated like a common criminal and should never hear the words “you have a right to remain silent.” “Abu Ghayth’s capture and decision to try him in civilian court raises several questions. For example, did U.S. officials properly interrogate Abu Ghayth before he was read his Miranda rights? If so, for how long? Given the fact that the U.S. required repeated interrogations of detainees in law of war custody over many years in order to find bin Laden, why would the Administration believe that a few hours or days of interrogation of someone so close to bin Laden would be sufficient? “The American people and their representatives in Congress have been clear that they do not want foreign members of al Qaeda brought to the United States. The Obama Administration’s decision to try Abu Ghayth in a New York district court clearly contravenes the will of the American people. This decision by the Obama Administration will not go unchallenged.” ###
03.06.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Mark Begich (D-Alaska), Jeff Flake (R-Arizona) and Mark Pryor (D-Arkansas) today introduced legislation, The NICS Reporting Improvement Act of 2013, to clarify circumstances under which a person loses the right to receive or possess firearms based on mental illness. The Senators noted that under current law certain mental incompetency adjudications are not required to be reported to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) which is the clearinghouse for all new gun purchases. They also noted the NICS Reporting Improvement Act of 2013 applies to individuals whose cases are determined by an adjuctive body, such as a federal court, to be: an imminent danger to themselves or others; found guilty but mentally ill in a criminal case; was not guilty in a criminal case by reason of insanity or mental disease or defect; was incompetent to stand trial in a criminal case; was not guilty only by reason of lack of mental responsibility under the Uniform Code of Military Justice; required involuntary inpatient treatment by a psychiatric hospital; required involuntary outpatient treatment by a psychiatric hospital based on a finding that the person is an imminent danger to himself or to others; and required involuntary commitment to a psychiatric hospital for any reason including drug use. “The Alice Boland case is ‘Exhibit A’ of a broken background check system,” said Graham. “An individual who pleads ‘Not Guilty by Reason of Insanity’ should not be able to pass a federal background check and legally purchase a gun. As astonishing as it sounds, that actually happened. Our bill addresses the Boland case, and other similar instances, to ensure that those who have been declared an imminent danger to themselves or others aren’t legally able to obtain a firearm. I would expect overwhelming bipartisan support for our legislation.” "I’m pleased that we have been able to bring together unlikely allies from outside the building and produce a common-sense, bipartisan bill that will help keep our communities safe while protecting our Second Amendment rights,” Begich said. “I have worked side by side with both the NRA and the mental health community to ensure that this bill will help keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people without stigmatizing the mentally ill or taking away individual rights. I hope today’s announcement serves as a reminder that if we roll up our sleeves and work together, we can still get things done around here.” “We must strengthen the reporting process of mental health records so that those who should not have access to guns are barred from purchasing them,” said Flake. “Ensuring that more of these records are integrated into NICS will significantly improve the background check process.” “I’m a strong supporter of 2nd amendment rights. That said, it’s evident that our background check system needs some improvements,” Pryor said. “Our bipartisan, common-sense bill will update the system, and ensure individuals who have been deemed “mentally incompetent” are not able to pass a background check and purchase firearms.” The Senators also noted the legislation contains provisions to ensure Second Amendment rights are returned to individuals after they have recovered from their mental illness. The legislation also does not apply to persons in a mental institution for observation or those who voluntarily admit themselves to a psychiatric hospital. #####
03.04.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– As the U.S. Senate continues to consider the Administration’s national security nominees, Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today released the following statement on what we do know and what we still do not know about the attack on the U.S. Special Mission facility in Benghazi, Libya that killed four brave Americans on September 11, 2012: “What we know: Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton was not aware of the classified cable that, according to published media reports, Ambassador Chris Stevens sent in August 2012 stating that the U.S. Special Mission facility in Benghazi could not survive a sustained assault from one or more of the militia groups that were operating in eastern Libya. The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Martin Dempsey, testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that he was ‘surprised’ to learn that Secretary Clinton had never seen the cable. After the initial reports about the attack in Benghazi, Secretary Panetta and General Dempsey met with President Obama during a previously scheduled meeting. Both Secretary Panetta and General Dempsey testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that this was the last time either of them spoke with the President during the attack in Benghazi. We also know that the President spoke for nearly one hour that night with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and held a press conference on the attack at the White House the following morning before departing for a political campaign event in Las Vegas, Nevada. We do not know what other actions the President took during the attack in Benghazi. In testimony before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Secretary Clinton stated that the FBI was the first agency to debrief the U.S. personnel who were evacuated from Benghazi on September 12. It took multiple days before those reports, which made clear that there never was a spontaneous protest outside of the U.S. Mission in Benghazi, were provided to the U.S. intelligence community. General Dempsey testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that the U.S. military never provided additional support to the U.S. Mission in Benghazi prior to September 11, 2012 because they never received a request to do so – despite the fact that the U.S. Mission in Benghazi had been attacked twice already in the preceding months, and despite Ambassador Stevens’ August cable stating that the U.S. Mission in Benghazi could not survive a sustained attack by militants operating in the area. Secretary Panetta and General Dempsey testified to the Senate Armed Services Committee that, from the beginning of the crisis on September 11, 2012 in Benghazi, they believed it was a terrorist attack based on the nature of the event. Similarly, Senator Dianne Feinstein, the Chair of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, has cited a transcript of a September 14 meeting between then-CIA Director David Petraeus and the members of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, in which, according to Senator Feinstein, ‘Petraeus very clearly said that it was a terrorist attack.’ In an address on the morning of September 12, 2012, President Obama spoke of ‘acts of terror,’ but later that day, in an interview with CBS’s ‘60 Minutes,’ he refused to characterize the attack in Benghazi as a terrorist attack. He then spent nearly two additional weeks claiming that he did not know whether the incident in Benghazi was a terrorist attack, contrary to what the then-Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have said that they believed to be true at the time. “What we do not know: We do not know whether the President was made aware of the classified cable that, according to published media reports, Ambassador Chris Stevens sent in August 2012, stating that the U.S. Mission in Benghazi could not survive a sustained assault from one or more of the threatening militia groups that were operating in eastern Libya. We do not know whether the President's national security staff made him aware of the attacks on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi that occurred in April and June of last year and the assassination attempt on the British Ambassador in Benghazi around the same time. If the President was informed, we do not know what actions he may have taken. We do not know what person or persons, representing what executive branch agency or agencies, changed the unclassified talking points to remove references to Al-Qaeda and a terrorist attack in describing the attack on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi. We do not know why, on the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack in American history, after multiple attacks last year on U.S. and Western interests in Libya, and with rising insecurity in countries across the Middle East, U.S. military units and assets in the region were not ready, alert, and positioned to respond in a timely fashion to what should have been a foreseeable emergency – despite the fact that there is a U.S. military base in Souda Bay, Crete, which is a short flight to Benghazi. We do not know what the President did or who he was in contact with during the seven hours of the attack, and we do not know why the President did not reach out to Libyan President Magariaf to ensure deployment of a U.S. tactical team that was held up for three hours at a Libyan airport. We do not know why the testimonies of the U.S. personnel who were evacuated from Benghazi on September 12 – eyewitnesses who knew there never was a demonstration outside the U.S. Mission – were not shared in a timely way with, and immediately factored in to the judgments of, our intelligence community. We do not know whether this failure reflects obstacles that still exist to the free sharing of information across executive branch agencies, which was a key concern of the 9/11 Commission. We do not know why the Administration did not do more to support and assist the new Libyan government that took power after the fall of Qaddafi, including in the establishment of civilian-led national security forces that operate under central government control, a counterterrorism force that is trained and equipped to combat Al Qaeda and its affiliates, national justice and prison systems, and effective control over the immense stockpiles of weapons and dangerous materials that exist across Libya. The result of this so-called ‘light footprint’ approach was that Al-Qaeda, its affiliated groups, and local militias were able to establish sanctuaries almost uncontested in the ungoverned spaces of eastern Libya. Some of these individuals were involved in the attack on the U.S. Mission in Benghazi.” ###
03.01.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was recognized by the American Conservative Union (ACU) for his conservative voting record. The group honored him as an ‘ACU Conservative.’ “Senator Graham’s ACU rating of ‘92’ for votes cast in 2012 shows a consistent commitment to conservative principles on a wide range of issues,” said Al Cardenas, Chairman, American Conservative Union. The Senate, on average, voted the conservative position 39.28 percent of the time in 2012. The ACU, which describes itself as the largest and strongest grassroots conservative organization, serves as the umbrella organization for conservatives in America. The ratings cover issues running the gamut of legislative action, including energy production, government reform, foreign policy, and social issues. These issues are carefully selected to ensure legislators are scored and rated on the bellwether conservative topics they voted on over the course of the year. According to the ACU, their ratings have become a go-to guide to determine whether an elected official’s philosophical rhetoric matches his or her record. Among the conservative votes Graham cast that were part of the group’s 2012 scorecard: Approving construction of the Keystone XL pipeline from Canada Increasing domestic energy production through new oil and gas leases throughout the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) Opposing the National Labor Relations Board’s union-backed snap elections limiting workers’ rights Prohibiting the transfer of terrorist detainees from Guantanamo Bay to the United States Opposing the major expansion of welfare programs under the Obama Administration ####
02.28.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced a bipartisan Senate resolution expressing concerns about the Iranian nuclear threat and the need for the United States to stand with Israel. “We have no better friends in that part of the world than Israel,” said Graham. “Last year President Obama told the people of Israel, ‘We have your back.’ Our resolution builds upon that statement and makes it clear that if Israel is one day forced to protect themselves we will stand with Israel.” (Audio/Video of Graham Remarks is Available Here) The resolution: Declares that the United States has a vital national interest in and unbreakable commitment to, ensuring the existence, survival, and security of the State of Israel. Reaffirms the United States support for Israel’s right to self-defense. Urges that if Israel is compelled to take military action in self-defense, the United States will stand with Israel and provide diplomatic, military, and economic support in its defense of its territory, people, and existence. The resolution was co-sponsored by fifteen Senators including Senators Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire), John Cornyn (R-Texas) and Chuck Schumer (D-New York). ####
02.27.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Charles Schumer (D-NY) and John Hoeven (R-ND) today reintroduced bipartisan legislation in the new Congress to crack down on the growing problem of metal theft. Metal theft has jumped more than 80% in recent years, as thieves steal high-priced metal from critical infrastructure as well as businesses, homes, churches and even veterans’ graves – causing families pain and threatening public safety. The Metal Theft Prevention Act would help crack down on metal thieves and make it harder for them to sell stolen metal. “Thefts and resale of high-priced metals stolen from churches, businesses, and our nation’s critical infrastructure has skyrocketed in recent years,” said Graham. “Our legislation makes it a federal crime to steal from these sites. It also creates common-sense safeguards to prevent resale without interfering with states’ rights to prosecute.” “In communities across Minnesota, thieves are stealing high-priced metal from public infrastructure, churches, and even taking brass stars from our veterans’ graves. These crimes are costing businesses thousands of dollars, threatening public safety, and causing families real pain,” Klobuchar said. “This legislation will crack down on metal thieves, helping put them behind bars and make it more difficult for them to sell their stolen goods.” “It is time to put thieves who steal scrap metal from homes, businesses, infrastructure – and even veterans’ graves – behind ironclad bars,” said Schumer. “This practical plan will combat the rash of metal theft by requiring recyclers to keep detailed documentation of metal purchases, capping the amount of cash recyclers can pay for scrap metal, ensuring that those selling metal are authorized to do so, and by making metal theft a federal crime. This proposal will safeguard families, business owners, and commuters who are endangered by the stripped infrastructure, fires, and financial hit as a result of these crimes.” “What the federal law does is make sure that thieves can’t steal metal in one state and sell it in another state,” Hoeven said. “ At the same time, we’ve worked to craft the bill so that it is flexible and responsive and takes into consideration the concerns of businesses and Attorneys General across the country by ensuring that state law will supersede federal law in the case of metal thefts.” Between 2009 and 2011, the National Insurance Crime Bureau found over 25,000 insurance claims related to metal theft, an increase of 81 percent over claims made between 2006 and 2008. In a recent study, the U.S. Department of Energy found that the total value of damages to industries affected by the theft of copper wire would likely exceed $900 million each year. The Metal Theft Prevention Act calls for enforcement by the Attorney General and gives state attorneys general the ability to bring civil actions to enforce the provisions of the legislation. It also directs the U.S. Sentencing Commission to review penalty guidelines as they relate to metal theft and make sure they are adequate. The bill also makes it an explicit federal crime to steal metal from critical infrastructure. In addition, the legislation would also make it much tougher for thieves to sell stolen metals to scrap metal dealers. It contains a “Do Not Buy” provision which bans scrap metal dealers from buying certain items unless the sellers establish, by written documentation, that they are authorized to sell the metal in question. As a result of the bill, scrap metal dealers would be required to keep detailed records of metal purchases for two years and make them available to law enforcement agencies. The bill would also require that purchases of scrap metal over $100 be done by check instead of cash, to further help law enforcement track down thieves. Klobuchar, Graham and Schumer introduced similar legislation in the previous Congress. ###
02.26.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on his opposition to Chuck Hagel’s nomination as Secretary of Defense. “I oppose the nomination of Chuck Hagel to serve as our next Secretary of Defense. The position of Secretary of Defense is one of the most important jobs in our government. There were other, more capable choices available and I regret President Obama did not choose one of them. “Having said this, I do believe it is the President’s prerogative to pick his Cabinet and I will work with Senator Hagel to ensure our defense at home and security around the globe is not diminished. “I’m disappointed not one Democrat stepped forward to express concerns about Senator Hagel’s views on Israel and Iran. I believe from his past actions, he has shown antagonism toward the State of Israel. In these dangerous times, his nomination sends the worst possible signal to our enemies in Iran. “I continue to have serious questions about whether Chuck Hagel is up to the job of being our Secretary of Defense. I hope, for the sake of our own national security, he exceeds expectations.” ####
02.21.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and U.S. Representative Trey Gowdy (R-South Carolina) are pressing Attorney General Eric Holder on why the Department of Justice is prosecuting only a small fraction of the convicted felons and fugitives from justice who are failing background checks under the National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS). The South Carolina elected officials note: 76,142 individuals failed a gun purchase background check in 2010. 19 percent of the denials (13,862) were based on the applicant being a fugitive from justice. Another 2.5 percent (1,923) involved felons and unlawful firearms possession. Only 13 of the 76,142 failed background checks resulted in guilty pleas. “While we understand that not every denial needs to be prosecuted, every case involving a fugitive from justice or felon in possession of a firearm should be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law,” wrote Graham and Gowdy. The South Carolina elected officials also requested a full breakdown of the Fiscal Year 2012 NICS denials and an explanation as to why so few cases are prosecuted. They acknowledged that if the problem is purely resource based Congress can assist in identifying funding in the current Department of Justice budget that could be dedicated to prosecuting this issue. “Too many of the legislative proposals being mentioned thus far are driven by politics and have been proven ineffective in the past,” wrote Graham and Gowdy. “While we do not claim to know everything about gun violence, we do know that a common-sense solution does not involve limiting the constitutional rights of law-abiding citizens. Instead, we should focus on enforcing current law and keeping guns out of the hands of those who shouldn’t have them.” #####
02.19.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) released the following statement on President Obama’s comments today regarding looming budget sequestration: “For months last year, we traveled around the country warning about the calamitous effects that budget sequestration would have on our nation’s economy and security. Today, just ten days prior to the implementation of these draconian cuts, the President held another campaign event to blame Republicans for sequestration, which was actually his idea in the first place. This country needs a Commander-in-Chief, not a Campaigner-in-Chief. We call on the President to bring Republicans and Democrats together at the White House and work to avert what his own Secretary of Defense said would be a ‘devastating’ blow to America’s security. We have offered a common sense plan to avoid these cuts; now, it’s time for the President to fulfill his responsibilities and bring all parties together to solve this looming crisis.” ####
02.19.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (854-250-1417) WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on the retirement of General John Allen: “It was with great regret that I learned from General Allen that he will be retiring and not assuming NATO Command. General Allen informed me shortly after meeting with the President that due to personal family reasons, he will be seeking retirement. “The nation owes a great debt to General Allen, who has been one of the most outstanding officers I have ever known. He led the surge of troops in Afghanistan, delivered a strong blow against our enemies, and did an exceptional job building up the Afghan security forces. “General Allen and his family have served this nation with distinction, and his leadership in the future will be missed. I wish him and his family all the best, and know that he will continue to contribute to our great nation outside of military service." ####
02.12.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today requested that President Obama provide information on his actions and orders during the September 11, 2012, attack on the U.S. mission in Benghazi, Libya. ##### Full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: On September 11, 2012, four brave Americans were killed at the United States Mission in Benghazi, Libya. Over the past five months, the Senate has received testimony from several members of your Administration about this deadly terrorist attack, including from the Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the State Department’s Accountability Review Board. Nevertheless, a number of serious questions about the failed American response remain unanswered. It is critical that we have a full understanding of American actions taken before, during, and after the attack. While we cannot change history, the lessons we learn can help prevent such a tragedy from happening again. For this reason, we write to ask you to respond in writing to the following question at your earliest convenience: During the eight hours the U.S. mission was under attack, did you personally speak with any officials in the Libyan government to request assistance for our American personnel? Thank you for your attention to this important matter. We look forward to your response.
02.05.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today released the following statement on President Obama’s remarks on budget sequestration this afternoon: “This past weekend, President Obama’s own Secretary of Defense said the budget cuts looming under sequestration will ‘weaken the United States’ and ‘make it much more difficult for us to respond to crises in the world.’ The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff agreed that ‘we will become less safe’ if these cuts go through. “While the President last year promised that sequestration ‘will not happen,’ he has declined to address this looming crisis for more than a year. We appreciate that the President now wants to come to the negotiating table and we will examine his proposal closely. “Every time we have a crisis in this country, President Obama’s solution is to raise taxes. With the economy still struggling and job growth very weak, the last thing America needs is a tax increase. “In the coming days, we will be introducing legislation – as we did last year – to avoid the first year of defense budget cuts by reducing the size of the federal workforce through attrition as recommended by the Simpson-Bowles Commission. This common-sense approach avoids a damaging self-inflicted wound to America’s security, and we hope the President will join us in this effort.” ###
02.05.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the nomination of Chuck Hagel as Secretary of Defense. “Chuck Hagel is a good man, but these are dangerous times. What kind of signal are we sending to the Iranians when our nominee for Secretary of Defense seems clueless about what our policy is? I hope the Obama Administration will reconsider his nomination.” #####
01.31.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has written to President Obama requesting the President personally intervene in the case of Pastor and American citizen Saeed Abedini, who was unfairly sentenced to eight years in an Iranian prison. “I am deeply dismayed and disturbed by the news from Iran that Pastor and American citizen Mr. Saeed Abedini has been sentenced by the Iranian government to eight years in prison for practicing the Christian faith,” wrote Graham. “Pastor Abedini’s case is symbolic of the gross injustice against all Christians in Iran today. “While I fully recognize the myriad national security issues posed by the fanatical theocracy in Tehran, I believe the case of Pastor Abedini deserves your full attention and engagement,” wrote Graham. “To this end, it is imperative that you personally add your voice to those calling for Pastor Abedini’s immediate and unconditional release. “There is no better symbol of American values, specifically freedom of religion, or demonstration of loyalty to the welfare of our citizens abroad than vocal and sustained support directly from the President of the United States.” #### Click here to view the letter.
01.29.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Ted Cruz (R-Texas) today wrote Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy requesting the Judiciary Committee work with local and federal law enforcement to ensure that at future hearings Senators can request, and law enforcement will provide, various firearms for education, display, and discussion purposes. “In anticipation of tomorrow’s hearing on gun control, we instructed our staff to work to ensure various unloaded firearms, under law enforcement supervision, could be brought into the hearing,” wrote Graham and Cruz, members of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “Our offices worked with various officials in local and federal law enforcement, as well as the Senate Sergeant at Arms, but it appears that the requirements to secure the weapons at the hearing are so impractical as to be unworkable.” “Our goal is simple -- to educate fellow Senators and members of the public how and why firearms are used by millions of law-abiding Americans for self-defense, hunting, and sporting purposes,” said Graham and Cruz. “We also want to shatter the mistaken belief that guns in the hands of law-abiding citizens are a danger to society. It is every bit as important we make that distinction as it is to note that one gun in the hand of mentally-deranged individual is one too many.” ####
01.28.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on agreement by a bipartisan group of Senators on a set of principles for immigration reform: “I hope the third time is the charm. I have enjoyed working with my Senate colleagues in drafting these principles and believe we are off to a good start. The bipartisan immigration principles represent a real breakthrough on substance and I hope they will be seen as a breakthrough in forming a political coalition to finally solve our immigration problems. The coalition must also include the President and the House of Representatives. “My hope is immigration reform will start in the Senate and receive an overwhelming bipartisan vote. We’re a long way from having legislative language but I do believe 2013 presents us the best chance to pass immigration reform in many years. The time is right and the way forward, while difficult is being better defined by the day, and with a reasonable amount of political give and take we will be successful. However, if for some reason we fail in our efforts to pass comprehensive immigration reform I do believe it will be many years before anyone is willing to try and solve this problem. We should start this new attempt hopeful and with full understanding how difficult the task is.” #### Framework For Immigration Reform
01.25.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on President Obama’s decision to name Denis McDonough, a former national security advisor, as his White House Chief of Staff: “President Obama’s decision to choose Denis McDonough was wise and I think he will serve the nation well. Denis is a steady hand, smart guy, and is well respected on both sides of the aisle. I have enjoyed working with him on national security matters and look forward to continuing that relationship.” ####
01.25.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on news that Georgia Senator Saxby Chambliss will not seek reelection in 2014. Graham said: “I was informed by Senator Chambliss earlier today that he would not seek reelection. I received this news with great sadness and disappointment because Saxby is one of my best friends in or out of politics. I know this was a difficult decision for Saxby and Julianne, but I understand their desire to spend time with their wonderful family and enter into a new phase of their lives. “Saxby Chambliss is one of the Senate’s strongest voices on national security, and is incredibly respected both for his intellect and gentlemanly nature. His decision not to seek reelection is a great loss for the United States Senate. I am confident that Saxby will continue to aggressively represent the people of Georgia and our nation as a whole until his last day in office. The Chambliss family are my dearest friends and have served the people of Georgia well.” ####
01.16.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in opposition to President Obama’s gun control proposal. “The recent tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School is heartbreaking and beyond words. However, the gun control plans brought forward by President Obama fail to address the real issues and I’m confident there will be bipartisan opposition to his proposal. “One bullet in the hands of a homicidal maniac is one too many. But in the case of a young mother defending her children against a home invader -- a real-life event which recently occurred near Atlanta -- six bullets may not be enough. Criminals aren’t going to follow legislation limiting magazine capacity. However, a limit could put law-abiding citizens at a distinct disadvantage when confronting a criminal. “As for reinstating the assault weapons ban, it has already been tried and failed. “Finally, when it comes to protecting our schools, I believe the best way to confront a homicidal maniac who enters a school is for them to be met by armed resistance from a trained professional.” #####
01.11.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today released the following statement on unanswered questions regarding last year’s Benghazi terrorist attack that President Obama’s national security nominees will need to address in the coming weeks: “As the U.S. Senate considers President Obama’s key national security nominations in the coming weeks, here is a partial list of unanswered questions that still must be addressed regarding the Benghazi terrorist attack that killed four brave Americans on September 11, 2012: Was the President made aware of the classified cable that, according to published media reports, Ambassador Chris Stevens sent on August 15, 2012, stating that the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi could not survive a sustained assault from one or more of the threatening militia groups that were operating in eastern Libya? Was the Secretary of State made aware of that cable and its contents? Did the President's national security staff make him aware of the attacks on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi that occurred in April and June of last year and the assassination attempt on the British Ambassador in Benghazi around the same time? If so, what actions did the President and Secretary of State take? When was the President first informed about the attack on September 11, 2012, and what actions did he take? What were the President’s activities during the seven hours the attack went on? What were the Secretary of State's activities during this time? On the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack in American history, after multiple attacks this year on U.S. and Western interests in Libya, and with rising insecurity in countries across the Middle East, why were U.S. military units and assets in the region not ready, alert, and positioned to respond in a timely fashion to what should have been a foreseeable emergency? Why were the testimonies of the U.S. personnel who were evacuated from Benghazi on September 12 – eyewitnesses who knew there never was a demonstration outside the Consulate – not shared in a timely way with, and immediately factored in to the judgments of, our intelligence community? Does this failure reflect obstacles that still exist to the free sharing of information across executive branch agencies, which was a key concern of the 9/11 Commission? Why has the Administration refused to provide the full text of emails regarding the deletion of references to Al-Qaeda and terrorism in the talking points on which Ambassador Rice relied several days after the attack? Considering that the President now labels the Benghazi attack as an act of terrorism, why has he designated the search for those responsible as a criminal investigation led by the FBI? Has the FBI-led criminal investigation in any way impeded the ability of other government agencies to investigate and assist in identifying those responsible for the attack? Why did the Administration not do more to support and assist the new Libyan government that took power after the fall of Qaddafi as Al-Qaeda, affiliated groups, and local militias established sanctuaries in the ungoverned spaces of eastern Libya – a development that directly implicates U.S. national security interests, and which is the real explanation why four Americans lost their lives in Benghazi?” ###
01.09.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and U.S. Congressman Trey Gowdy (South Carolina-4) today sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder renewing their request for documents pertaining to the Justice Department’s costly opposition to South Carolina’s Voter ID law. Last Friday, the Washington, D.C. District Court issued a unanimous decision awarding South Carolina certain litigation costs incurred while defending its Voter ID law against a Justice Department challenge. The case cost the State of South Carolina an estimated $3.5 million. “Not only do we strongly support the Court’s decision to award costs, we request follow up on our previous letter regarding the reasons why this costly litigation occurred in the first place,” wrote Graham and Gowdy. “If some, or all, of the costs associated with these actions could have been avoided by following the recommendation of career Voting Section experts, then we would like to know the reason why they were overruled.” Full text of the letter is below and attached: January 09, 2013 The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder: Last Friday, the D.C. District Court issued a unanimous decision awarding South Carolina certain litigation costs incurred while successfully defending its Voter ID law (Act R54) against the Department of Justice’s challenge. In doing so, the Court reaffirmed South Carolina was the prevailing party and obtained preclearance of Act R54, marking a decisive end to the matter. Not only do we strongly support the Court’s decision to award costs, we request follow up on our previous letter regarding the reasons why this costly litigation occurred in the first place. On September 24, 2012, we sent you a letter regarding the Department of Justice’s objection under Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act to Act R54. Our letter was prompted by a report that Justice Department political appointees ignored and overruled career Voting Section experts’ recommendations that Act R54 be approved. In our letter, we requested “all DOJ documents regarding, discussing or otherwise relevant to the Department’s preclearance decision on the South Carolina law, including the memos recommending preclearance and any documents discussing the decision to disregard that recommendation.” On September 28, 2012, Acting Assistant Attorney General Judith C. Appelbaum responded, declining to disclose any documents regarding internal deliberations, citing “longstanding policy and practice on the confidentiality of ongoing law enforcement matters” and “longstanding practice of not commenting . . . on pending litigation outside that setting.” While we appreciate your departments’ adherence to confidentiality, now that this is no longer an ongoing matter we respectfully resubmit our request. To highlight the reason for our continued interest, here are some of the actions the Justice Department and defendant-intervenors used to drive up the costs of the case, totaling nearly $3.5 million: Requiring South Carolina to produce more than 165,000 pages of documents; Delaying proceedings by 120 days; Litigating every element of the case, from the scheduling of depositions to the scope of document production, and even the font size in one of South Carolina’s briefs; Requiring South Carolina to transcribe the audio recording of Act R54’s legislative history; Deposing far more individuals than South Carolina (28-19), even deposing three separate witnesses for more than six hours each; and Collectively had three times the attorneys working on the case (36-11). If some, or all, of the costs associated with these actions could have been avoided by following the recommendation of career Voting Section experts, then we would like to know the reason why they were overruled. Accordingly, we again request all documents and communications pertaining to the Department’s decision to oppose Act R54 and pursue costly litigation, including any memos recommending preclearance and any documents discussing the decision to disregard that recommendation. We are confident that our request does not run contrary to your policies and practices. We look forward to your timely response. Sincerely, Senator Lindsey O. Graham Congressman Trey Gowdy ####
01.08.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released the following statement on the confirmation of John Brennan as Director of the CIA. Graham said: “I have not forgotten about the Benghazi debacle and still have many questions about what transpired before, during and after the attack on our consulate. “In that regard, I do not believe we should confirm anyone as Director of the CIA until our questions are answered - like who changed Ambassador Susan Rice’s talking points and deleted the references to Al-Qaeda? My support for a delay in confirmation is not directed at Mr. Brennan, but is an unfortunate, yet necessary action to get information from this Administration. “I have tried – repeatedly – to get information on Benghazi but my requests have been repeatedly ignored. “We were first told the Director of National Intelligence deleted the Al-Qaeda reference in the talking points because they did not want to let al Qaeda know we were monitoring them. We were then told the FBI changed the talking points so as not to compromise an ongoing criminal investigation. Finally, during a meeting with Ambassador Rice and acting-CIA Director Morrell, I was told it was the FBI who changed the talking points. However, later in the day the clarified it was the CIA who had changed the talking points. “This ever-changing story should be resolved. It is imperative we understand who changed the talking points just weeks before a presidential election and why. The stonewalling on Benghazi by the Obama Administration must come to an end.” ####
01.04.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today issued the following statement on President Obama signing H.R. 4310, the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act: “Yesterday, President Obama signed the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report, marking the 51st consecutive year of enactment for this vitally important legislation. However, in a signing statement accompanying the law, President Obama repeated his previous arguments challenging the work Congress has done to protect American taxpayers, shape national security policy, and strengthen our nation’s defense. “In his signing statement, the President objects to a provision in the NDAA related to the transfer of terrorist detainees in Afghanistan. As we hand detainees over to the Afghan and third-country governments, it is entirely reasonable to assess the security threat posed by the detainees, the stability of the countries to which they will be transferred, and those countries’ willingness and ability to prosecute and detain, as required by this provision. We do not want to repeat a situation in Afghanistan like the one in Iraq last year in which the Iraqi government released Ali Musa Daqduq, the terrorist responsible for the deaths of at least five U.S. servicemen in Iraq, who has now rejoined Hezbollah in Lebanon. “The President also opposes the provision requiring security certifications by the Secretary of Defense before any transfer of Guantanamo Bay detainees. The provision is obviously reasonable given that the recidivism rate of detainees released from the Guantanamo Bay detention facility is nearly 28 percent. “The President also objects to prohibitions on the transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay into the U.S., and the construction of facilities to house them in America. Recall that in 2009, the American people objected to bringing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed to New York City for trial. The American people do not want members of terrorist organizations brought to the United States for trial or detention. “The President seems to blame these provisions for his inability to shut down the Guantanamo Bay detention facility. He has it backwards. These and similar provisions in past defense bills resulted from the Administration’s announcement of an arbitrary deadline to close the Guantanamo Bay detention facility by January 2010 without providing a comprehensive plan to Congress that ensured our national security and the safety of the American people. That plan, to our knowledge, still does not exist. “The NDAA Conference Report specifically addresses issues left unaddressed by the Administration, including requiring a comprehensive report by Secretary of Defense identifying the limited military activities that could degrade the ability of the Assad regime to use air power against rebels in Syria. The Conference Report also addresses the glaring shortcomings in diplomatic security – tragically brought to light by the loss of four Americans in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012 – by authorizing an increase of the Marine Corps Embassy Security Group, which will support security at our embassies and consulates at locations identified by the Secretary of State to be at risk of terrorist attack. “We thank our friend and colleague Chairman Levin for his distinguished leadership of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and appreciate the hard work of all Committee members in both Houses of Congress on both sides of the aisle to make this the 51st consecutively enacted Defense Authorization bill. It provides for our troops and their families, and will improve the administration of the Department of Defense. We urge the President to see that its implementation is carried out in accordance with Congressional intent.” ###
01.01.2013	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) released the following statement on passage of legislation to avoid the fiscal cliff: “Last night, the Senate passed legislation, which prevents the expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts for 99 percent of Americans. Without this legislation, there will be a dramatic increase in every American’s taxes. Additionally, without this legislation, draconian cuts to our national defense will take place. Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta has said these cuts would be like “shooting ourselves in the head.” “Finally, this legislation reverses the President’s decision to give Congress a pay raise. “While it is unfortunate the President refused to discuss spending cuts in this legislation, he will not have that luxury in the upcoming debt limit debate. The debt limit debate will be our best opportunity to get a handle on the out of control spending, which will bankrupt our nation if left unaddressed. “I have repeatedly made it clear I will not vote to raise the debt ceiling unless we address why we are going further in debt. The time has come for the President to face up to the need to control federal spending and the growth of entitlements. If we do not change course in our spending habits, the United States will become Greece.” ####
12.18.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1419) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today praised a report from the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee which detailed abuses by the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Many of the abuses contained in the report are directly related to the NLRB complaint against Boeing’s decision to locate a production facility in South Carolina. Graham said: “Under the Obama Administration, the NLRB has become a tool of the unions and lost all semblance of being a fair, deliberative body. The report is a stunning record of how the NLRB is connected to and actively promotes the union agenda. “In the report, I found the actions taken by the NLRB and its General Counsel in this debacle incredibly disturbing. I hope this report leads to corrective action which prevents these types of blatant abuses in the future. “Hats off and much appreciation go to the Oversight and Government Reform Committee for exposing the serious abuses by the NLRB. I truly fear that what happened to Boeing South Carolina could easily happen to another company in the future, particularly one which locates in a Right-to-Work state.” ##### Congressional Report on NLRB Abuses: http://1.usa.gov/UnaZ14
12.17.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON— U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today released the following statement on the passing of Hawaii Senator Daniel Inouye: “Today, the Senate lost a true giant. Senator Inouye represented with distinction the Greatest Generation. He fought for his country with distinction, earning the Medal of Honor. In the Senate, he fought for his causes with passion, civility and grace. His passing is a great loss to the United States Senate and the people of Hawaii.” ####
12.13.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news Ambassador Susan Rice has withdrawn as a candidate for Secretary of State. “I respect Ambassador Rice’s decision. President Obama has many talented people to choose from to serve as our next Secretary of State. “When it comes to Benghazi I am determined to find out what happened – before, during, and after the attack. Unfortunately, the White House and other agencies are stonewalling when it comes to providing the relevant information. I find this unacceptable. “The story of Benghazi is a story of national security failure and we must work to prevent it from ever happening again. I will continue working diligently to get to the bottom of what happened in Benghazi.” #####
12.12.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (I-CT) today released the following statement on the Obama Administration recognizing the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people: “We commend President Obama for recognizing the National Coalition of Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition Forces as the legitimate representative of the Syrian people. This was an essential, and long overdue, step in the right direction for our Syria policy. But much more still needs to be done. Nearly 40,000 people have already perished, and the situation in Syria is growing more dire. “We urge the President to provide the National Coalition directly with the substantial assistance it needs to succeed, including financial support and humanitarian assistance that can be distributed to communities in opposition-controlled parts of Syria. Syria is experiencing a rapidly worsening food crisis, and we must help the National Coalition to show that it can provide relief to the Syrian people. “We also believe that the United States must play a far more active role in changing the military balance of power against Assad and his forces. The Syrian opposition's recent formation of a new, nationwide military command, the Supreme Military Council, presents an opportunity that we must seize to increase our support. We urge the President, in coordination with our friends and allies, to provide opposition forces in Syria that share our interests and values with weapons, training, intelligence, medical assistance, and other life-saving equipment. We also urge the President to lead an international effort to establish a no-fly zone over parts of Syria that opposition forces can control on the ground. As in Libya, a no-fly zone would provide opposition groups in Syria with the opportunity to organize, train, and equip themselves to contest the Assad regime more successfully, both politically and militarily. It is essential for the United States and our friends and allies to deny Assad the ability to use airpower to kill people indiscriminately in Syria. “If the Syrian opposition is to succeed more rapidly in liberating its country, marginalizing extremist groups, and preparing to secure and govern a post-Assad Syria, the United States must play a greater role. We now have a recognized partner in the National Coalition, and we must do what it takes to help them succeed.” ###
12.05.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today released the following statement in response to President Obama's plan to raise the debt limit: “Mr. President, I will not support increasing the debt limit until we address why we’re in debt. “I will never vote to raise the debt ceiling unless we produce real structural reforms to save Medicare and Social Security from bankruptcy and prevent our country from becoming Greece. It is now time for you to demonstrate leadership and embrace big ideas in a bipartisan way. "America is on an unsustainable path. To continue borrowing money without addressing our entitlement problems is irresponsible." ####
12.04.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 "I have serious concerns about the treaty's impact on the pro-life and pro-family communities. In addition, the construct of this treaty creates a precedent that would be unhealthy for our nation. The treaty could allow individual groups to challenge sovereign governments. That's a slippery slope for the United States to go down and among the reasons I voted against this treaty." -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina)
11.29.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Chuck Schumer (D-New York), John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), and Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey) have introduced legislation which takes a tough line against the Palestinians bid today at the United Nations General Assembly to recognize Palestine as a ‘non-member observer state.' The Graham-Schumer-Barrasso-Menendez measure: forces the immediate closure of the Palestinian Liberation Organization's (PLO) office in Washington unless the Palestinians have entered into meaningful negotiations with Israel eliminates American foreign assistance to the Palestinian Authority if the International Criminal Court adjudicates any matter proposed or supported by the Palestinian Authority. The legislation comes on the same day the Palestinians plan to ask the United Nations General Assembly to recognize Palestine as a ‘non-member observer state.' This authority will give the Palestinians the ability to file frivolous cases targeting Israel and the United States at the International Criminal Court. The measure is expected to pass over objections by the United States and Israel. "Granting United Nations membership to the Palestinian authority is a nightmare in the making for the peace process and future relations between the Congress and UN," said Graham. "Granting a form of member-status to the Palestinians goes around the only viable way to negotiate a two state solution, that's between the parties themselves. I fear the Palestinian authority will now be able to use the United Nations as a political club against Israel. Most importantly, they will file complaints in the International Criminal Court against the Israeli Defense Force (IDF) or any other Israeli institution engaged in defending the Jewish state. This provocative step by the Palestinians could lead to using the International Criminal Court as a form to marginalize the state of Israel, an action that will not be accepted without consequence in the Congress. We will not use American taxpayer dollars to support a Palestinian entity whose primary goal, if they file a complaint in the ICC, is to marginalize the Jewish state rather than live in peace with the people of Israel. The United States national security interests are best served by a traditional peace process between the two factions dealing with each other directly." Schumer said: "We are committed to using every means at our disposal to ensure that this UN vote does not serve as a precedent for elevating the status of the PLO in other UN bodies or international forums. Over the past year, Palestinian leaders have indicated an intention to apply for full membership in the International Criminal Court and over a dozen other international institutions in order to assert Palestinian claims against Israel. These unhelpful efforts would not only unfairly target our Israeli ally, but would devastate efforts to resume the peace process and do possibly irreparable harm to those international institutions. We stand united in preventing this from happening, and will do everything in our power to block the Palestinians from using the International Criminal Court and other international bodies to assert Palestinian claims against Israel." "The best path to a true and lasting peace is through direct negotiations between the two parties - not through manipulations at the United Nations," said Barrasso. "The Palestinian Authority's attempt to change their United Nations' status is a purely political maneuver that will circumvent direct peace process negotiations with Israel. If the Palestinians move forward with this irresponsible plan, they will violate international agreements, undermine the peace process and threaten the security of our ally." "This unilateral approach by the Palestinian Authority to gaining sovereignty is provocative, reckless and threatens to inflame passions throughout the region," said Menendez. "The day after the resolution, nothing will have changed, including America's unwavering support for Israel during this period of political turbulence in the Middle East. We will not stand idly by and allow the Palestinians to evade the peace process by pressing their political cause through alternate means and we will not provide financial support, or political support in the form of offices in the U.S., if the Palestinians aren't serious about pursuing real peace through real negotiations. The choice is theirs." ###
11.27.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona), and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) said the following in response to the White House’s statement today that ‘there are no unanswered questions’ about Ambassador Rice’s September 16 Sunday show appearances and the talking points she used. “We respectfully disagree with the White House’s statement today that ‘there are no unanswered questions’ about Ambassador Rice’s September 16 Sunday show appearances and the talking points she used. “Around 10:00 this morning in a meeting requested by Ambassador Rice, accompanied by acting CIA Director Mike Morell, we asked Mr. Morell who changed the unclassified talking points to remove references to al-Qaeda. In response, Mr. Morell said the FBI removed the references and did so to prevent compromising an ongoing criminal investigation. We were surprised by this revelation and the reasoning behind it. “However, at approximately 4:00 this afternoon, CIA officials contacted us and indicated that Acting Director Morell misspoke in our earlier meeting. The CIA now says that it deleted the al-Qaeda references, not the FBI. They were unable to give a reason as to why. “We are disturbed by the Administration’s continued inability to answer even the most basic questions about the Benghazi attack and the Administration’s response. “Beyond Ambassador Rice’s misstatements, we continue to have questions about what happened in Benghazi before, during, and after the attack on our consulate – as well as the President’s statements regarding the attack. “Perhaps most important, we also need to understand why the U.S. military was unable to respond within seven hours to save American lives in Benghazi and why our consulate was left so unsecure despite a series of previous attacks. "In more than a dozen letters, we and other Senators have repeatedly requested that the Administration provide answers to our questions. Yet, today most of them remain unanswered. We eagerly await their response.” ####
11.19.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement regarding the Prime Minister of Turkey’s comments on Israel today: “We regret that the Prime Minister of Turkey referred to Israel today as a ‘terrorist state.’ Israel has the same sovereign right as every country to defend itself, and no government could be expected to remain passive under the daily barrage of hundreds of rockets fired intentionally at innocent men, women, and children, which Israel has had to endure at the hands of Hamas. This challenge should be familiar to Turkey, which has been a victim of terrorism itself. “Prime Minister Erdogan, a man we know and respect, should play a constructive leadership role in pushing Hamas to cease its attacks on Israel so this conflict can be brought to an end. His comments today, unfortunately, will have the opposite effect, encouraging Hamas to continue with its acts of terrorism, thereby prolonging the fighting and risking further loss of life on both sides. This serves no responsible interest.” ###
11.14.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to President Obama’s comments about Benghazi and Ambassador Susan Rice. “Mr. President, don’t think for one minute I don’t hold you ultimately responsible for Benghazi. I think you failed as Commander in Chief before, during, and after the attack. “We owe it to the American people and the victims of this attack to have full, fair hearings and accountability be assigned where appropriate. Given what I know now, I have no intention of promoting anyone who is up to their eyeballs in the Benghazi debacle." #####
11.09.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Rob Portman (R-OH), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and Ron Johnson (R-WI) today released the following statement in response to a letter they received this afternoon from Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta regarding the terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012: “Over the past month, we and our colleagues have sent 13 separate letters to senior Administration officials, including President Obama, seeking an explanation for why no U.S. armed forces were available to go to the aid of the four American citizens who died during the September 11 attack on the U.S. consulate in Benghazi. Today, we finally received from the Secretary of Defense the first response to our many letters. Unfortunately, Secretary Panetta's letter only confirms what we already knew – that there were no forces at a sufficient alert posture in Europe, Africa or the Middle East to provide timely assistance to our fellow citizens in need in Libya. The letter fails to address the most important question – why not? “This question is all the more puzzling considering that the attack in Benghazi occurred on the anniversary of the worst terrorist attack in American history – a day when we know that our enemies around the world are plotting and planning to hit us again. Furthermore, the attack was only the latest in a series of assaults against Western interests in Benghazi, including an attempted assassination of the British Ambassador and two previous attacks on our consulate in Benghazi this year. It was for this reason that U.S. security professionals on the ground in Libya had made repeated requests for additional personnel and security assistance. “In short, we knew that our enemies wanted to hit us in Benghazi. They had already tried on at least two occasions. The most glaring example can be found in the August cables from the Embassy in Tripoli to the State Department. Our own people on the ground were concerned about the threat. And yet, on the one day out of the year – September 11 – when the threat level is perhaps the highest, the military was not in a position to come quickly to the aid of Americans under attack in Benghazi. “We reiterate our requests to the President, the Director of National Intelligence, the Acting Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, and the Attorney General, to level with the American people and tell us what happened and why these four brave Americans were not better protected.” ###
11.05.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement regarding a previously unaired 60 Minutes interview with President Obama on the Benghazi terrorist attack. “During an unaired portion of his September 12th interview with 60 Minutes, President Obama refused to answer when asked if Benghazi was a terrorist attack. Now that this information has become public, it raises two very serious questions. “First, the President contradicts the narrative he tried to create in the second presidential debate that he immediately called the deaths of Ambassador Stevens and three other Americans a terrorist attack. He didn’t. And for many days afterwards he continued to blame the Benghazi attack on a video. It also clearly goes against the false narrative peddled by Ambassador Susan Rice who took to the Sunday talk shows five days after the September 11th attack to say it was a riot based on a video. This video from CBS News, which only came to light yesterday, would have played an important role in setting the record straight and put to rest the false narratives the Obama Administration has tried to create. “Second, for two out of the last three elections, CBS News reporting has created false impressions. CBS needs to do some serious self-evaluation and give serious consideration to appointing an independent body to look into this matter. There are many good reporters at CBS News who have to feel betrayed by not having full access to the President’s September 12th statements. Some CBS reporters have tried to report on the Benghazi debacle and have brought important information to light. Unfortunately, this important information was withheld from the American people who deserved to hear what President Obama said.” #####
11.02.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) today made this statement after learning the Tunisian government has granted in-person access to Ali Ani al Harzi, a suspect in the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi. Graham, the ranking Republican on the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Department of State, Foreign Operations and Related Agencies, which overseas American assistance to Tunisia, and Chambliss, the Vice Chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence, have been working closely to push for American access to the suspect. Earlier this week, Graham wrote the Tunisian government making clear that "providing access to this suspect is of the highest importance to me and many other members of Congress" and "the Tunisian response to this situation is of the utmost importance and could have profound impacts on the relations between our two countries moving forward." Chambliss last week met with the FBI to emphasize the need for direct access to this suspect and any other individuals related to the Benghazi attack. Graham and Chambliss also spoke with the Tunisian Secretary of State to reaffirm the need for American access to this suspect. Graham and Chambliss today said: "We are very pleased the Tunisian government is working with American investigators to allow in person access to Ali Ani al Harzi. Under this arrangement the interviews will be under Tunisian supervision and consistent with their sovereignty and meets the needs of our investigative team. "Allowing American investigators in person access will make the interview more meaningful and is a welcome breakthrough in our efforts to find the perpetrators of the Benghazi Consulate attacks. This tight collaboration between our countries shows the growing strength of our partnership. "It is unfortunate it has taken this long to get an in-person interview as time is of the essence in cases like this. We hope our interview of Ali Ani al Harzi will bear fruit and we can bring to justice those responsible for killing Ambassador Stevens and three other Americans. "Tunisia is where the Arab Spring began and these latest events reaffirm the growing alliance between our two countries. We look forward to working with the Tunisian government to strengthen the ties between our two countries." #####
11.02.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) tonight made this statement on revelations from CBS News and Fox News Channel about new details on the Benghazi, Libya attack. Graham said: "Enough already, Mr. President. You need to address the American people and account for your leadership in the attack on our Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. You should explain to the American people what you knew, when you knew it, and what you did about it before, during and after the attack. "It is wrong for you to repeatedly refuse to answer even the most basic questions about the death of Ambassador Stevens and the three other Americans killed in Benghazi. The continued revelations about this debacle must be addressed. "Today, CBS News reported that the counter-terrorism experts in the Counterterrorism Security Group (CSG) were not called upon for their advice as protocols require. "Yesterday, Fox News reported the existence of an August 16 cable from Ambassador Stevens and our embassy in Libya detailing a meeting held a day earlier which discussed the rise of al-Qaeda in Libya. The cable noted that at least ten al-Qaeda splinter groups were identified to be operating in Benghazi. We now know two of these groups have been associated with the September 11th attack. In addition, the cable reported our consulate could not be defended from a coordinated attack and requested additional security. "Mr President, the families of the fallen and the American people deserve nothing less than a full accounting of what happened. They deserve the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. The time for stonewalling, delaying, and denying are over." ##### CBS News: Key task force not convened during Benghazi consulate attack http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-250_162-57544026/sources-key-task-force-not-convened-during-benghazi-consulate-attack/ Fox News: Classified Cable warned consulate couldn't withstand coordinated attack http://www.foxnews.com/politics/2012/10/31/exclusive-us-memo-warned-libya-consulate-couldnt-withstand-coordinated-attack/
10.31.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), and Ron Johnson (R-WI) are calling on the Obama administration to immediately respond to questions posed over the past three weeks about the administration's actions before, during, and after the terrorist attack in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. In a letter to President Obama, the senators highlight a series of inquiries the administration has not yet answered - noting that failure to provide answers raises questions about whether the administration is deliberately stonewalling Congress and the American people. "The American people and their representatives in Congress need to understand what you knew about the Benghazi terrorist attack and when you knew it. We also have a right to know what steps you and your administration took - or failed to take - before, during, and after the terrorist attack to protect American lives," the senators wrote. McCAIN-GRAHAM-AYOTTE-JOHNSON LETTER TO PRESIDENT OBAMA: October 31, 2012 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: The American people deserve to know all the facts surrounding the terrorist attack in Benghazi on September 11, 2012, that resulted in the murder of four Americans-including Ambassador Chris Stevens. Unfortunately, you and your senior administration officials have not been forthcoming in providing answers to the many questions that have emerged. On October 9, 2012, we sent a letter to the senior intelligence officials in your administration in an effort to obtain answers to these questions. More than three weeks have passed, and we still have not received a response. To make matters worse, since that original letter, we sent several subsequent letters to you or to your senior administration officials asking a number of questions, and we have failed to receive a single letter in response. The American people and their representatives in Congress need to understand what you knew about the Benghazi terrorist attack and when you knew it. We also have a right to know what steps you and your administration took-or failed to take-before, during, and after the terrorist attack to protect American lives. In order to facilitate an immediate response to our important questions on behalf of the American people, below are the questions from the letters we have sent over the last three weeks. In our October 9, 2012, letter that we wrote with Senator Saxby Chambliss, we asked the following questions of Director of National Intelligence, James R. Clapper, Jr.; Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, David H. Petraeus; and Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism and Deputy National Security Advisor, John Brennan: • Within 48 hours of the attack, was there credible information and reporting to suggest that the assault on our Consulate and other U.S. facilities in Benghazi should be characterized as a terrorist attack? • At what time did intelligence community agencies or elements first assess that the events in Benghazi were a terrorist attack? • What information did the intelligence community provide to senior policymakers that led some of them to draw the conclusion as late as five days after the attack in Benghazi that it was the result of a spontaneous demonstration, not a terrorist act? • Was there no credible evidence at that late date that was compelling enough for the intelligence community and the senior policymakers to draw a conclusion with at least moderate confidence that the attack in Benghazi was a terrorist act? On October 15, 2012, Senator Graham sent letters to Mr. Brennan, Director Clapper, Director Petraeus, as well as National Security Advisor Thomas Donilon. The letters highlighted the fact that on June 6, 2012, assailants placed an improvised explosive device (IED) on the north gate of the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi. The IED detonated and ripped a hole in the security perimeter that was described by one individual as "big enough for forty men to go through." This attack was preceded by an earlier IED attack against the Consulate in April 2012. Based on these facts, the letter included the following questions: • Were you aware of these attacks? • Did you inform the President of these attacks? • If so, what action was taken to protect our Consulate? • If you did not inform the President, why not? On October 15, 2012, Senator Graham sent you a similar letter asking the following questions: • Were you informed of these attacks on our Libyan Consulate? • If not, why not? • Did you consider these serious events? • If you were informed, what action was taken to protect the Consulate? On October 19, 2012, we sent a follow-up letter to the same three senior intelligence officials in your administration noting that ten days had elapsed since we sent the October 9 letter. On October 24, 2012, we sent a letter to you asking the following questions: • Why did your administration insist that a spontaneous demonstration was responsible for the attack on our Consulate, but as the State Department later divulged, no demonstration even occurred in Benghazi? • Why were requests for greater security assistance by officers on the ground not fulfilled, especially in light of the fact that there had already been two attacks on our Consulate in Benghazi this year and an attempt to assassinate the British Ambassador-events about which you should have known? • In light of the deteriorating security situation in Benghazi and the escalating series of attacks in the preceding months, why were there not rapid reaction forces or other military assets available in the region to deploy to Libya in the event of an emergency on September 11, 2012-a day that our intelligence agencies consistently cite far in advance as a moment of heightened security threat for the United States and our citizens and interests abroad? On October 26, 2012, we sent a letter to Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta; Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, David H. Petraeus; and Attorney General, Eric H. Holder requesting the immediate declassification of the surveillance video in and around the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi for the two days-September 11 and 12, 2012-that it and related U.S. facilities were under attack. On October 27, 2012, Senators McCain and Portman sent a letter to Secretary Panetta asking the following questions: • What military forces were available to provide support to U.S. personnel in Libya? • What military forces were requested to provide support to U.S. personnel in Libya, by whom, and what forces were provided? • What communication and coordination did you have with the President and other members of the National Security Council regarding possible Defense Department support in Libya? Your failure to answer these important questions will only add to the growing perception among many of our constituents that your administration has undertaken a concerted effort to misrepresent the facts and stonewall Congress and the American people. We look forward to a prompt and thorough response to these questions. The American people deserve a full accounting of what happened in Benghazi where four brave Americans were murdered. Thank you. Sincerely, John McCain United States Senator Lindsey Graham United States Senator Kelly Ayotte United States Senator Ron Johnson United States Senator Cc: The Honorable Leon E. Panetta, Secretary of Defense; The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr., Attorney General of the United States; The Honorable James R. Clapper, Jr., Director of National Intelligence; The Honorable David H. Petraeus, Director of the Central Intelligence Agency
10.29.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864=250-1417) WASHINGTON—U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) responded to the following comments made by President Obama during a radio interview with Philadelphia’s Michael Smerconish. Original question: On Monday WSJ reported that you're daily briefings said the attack had arisen from a spontaneous protest. Is it true that your statements and those of [Ambassador Susan] Rice were simply repeating what the PDBs were telling you? President Obama: "What's true is that the intelligence was coming in and evolving as more information came up. And what is true--this is something that the American people can take to the bank: my administration plays this stuff straight. We don't play politics when it comes to American national security. So what we consistently have done throughout my presidency and what we did in his circumstance is as information came in we gave it to the American people. And as we got new information we gave that to the American people. And that includes by the way members of Congress. One of the things that always frustrates me about this town is when people go out there and try to politicize issues despite knowing that we have given them all this information." Graham’s response: “In the words of President Obama, this statement sounds like a lot of B.S. “This Administration does play politics with national security. In an effort to look strong, this Administration has strategically leaked classified information about numerous sensitive national security programs, ranging from the raid on bin Laden, the cyber-attacks on Iran, to disrupting the underwear bomber plot. The President has also refused to appoint a special counsel to investigate breaches of national security, while demanding it for others in past administrations. “These leaks have created distrust amongst our allies and damaged operations in the field. Fearful that the reality on the ground in Benghazi cuts against the narrative that al-Qaeda has been dismantled, the Administration has been cherry-picking intelligence and intentionally misleading the American people. There was no mob, there was no riot. This was a preplanned attack by al-Qaeda affiliated militia. “I wrote letters to our nation’s top intelligence officials asking for information regarding Ambassador Rice’s sources. It has been almost two weeks and I have not received one bit of information from them. The President promised transparency, an unveiling of details regarding the Benghazi attack, but they have done nothing but stonewall the American people and their elected representatives.” ####
10.24.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) of Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) today wrote the following letter to President Obama expressing deep concern about information in a news article yesterday citing internal emails from U.S. personnel on the ground in Benghazi which make clear that the Obama Administration knew within two hours of the attack that it was a terrorist act and that a Libyan militant group with links to Al-Qaeda had claimed responsibility for it. The senators urge President Obama to address the American people directly on these and other vital questions that still surround the tragic murder of American citizens last month in Libya. October 24, 2012 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President, We were disturbed by information in a news article yesterday citing internal emails sent from U.S. personnel on the ground in Benghazi during the siege on our Consulate last month, which were distributed by the State Department to the White House and other agencies. These emails make clear that your Administration knew within two hours of the attack that it was a terrorist act and that Ansar al-Sharia, a Libyan militant group with links to Al-Qaeda, had claimed responsibility for it. This latest revelation only adds to the confusion surrounding what you and your Administration knew about the attacks in Benghazi, when you knew it, and why you responded to those tragic events in the ways that you did. Regardless of your statement in the Rose Garden on the day after the attack, you and members of your Administration consistently described the attack for days afterward as a spontaneous response to an anti-Islam video. Your spokesperson repeatedly insisted on this version of events, as did your Ambassador to the United Nations, as many as five days after the attack occurred. In television interviews nearly a week after the events in Benghazi, you yourself even refused to describe it as a terrorist attack, instead emphasizing the role played by a hateful video. This concerted misrepresentation of the facts of the case – facts that, it appears, you and your Administration possessed almost as soon as the attack began – is why so many of our constituents are demanding a fuller explanation of why your Administration responded as it did. The confusion that many Americans feel about your handling of the events in Benghazi is amplified by other unanswered questions. Why, for example, did your Administration insist that a spontaneous demonstration was responsible for the attack on our Consulate, but as the State Department later divulged, no demonstration even occurred in Benghazi? Why were requests for greater security assistance by officers on the ground not fulfilled, especially in light of the fact that there had already been two attacks on our Consulate in Benghazi this year and an attempt to assassinate the British Ambassador – events about which you should have known? Finally, in light of the deteriorating security situation in Benghazi and the escalating series of attacks in the preceding months, why were there no rapid reaction forces or other military assets available in the region to deploy to Libya in the event of an emergency on September 11, 2012 – a day that our intelligence agencies consistently cite far in advance as a moment of heightened security threat for the United States and our citizens and interests abroad? We believe the American people deserve answers to these and other questions that you and your Administration still have not adequately answered. The American people have the right to know what information your Administration was receiving about the attacks in Benghazi once they began, when you received it, how you reacted to it, and why you and other members of your Administration continued for days after the attack to speak about it in ways that increasingly seem at odds with intelligence and other reporting that you had available to you. We urge you to address the American people directly on these and other vital questions that still surround the tragic murder of our fellow citizens last month in Libya. Sincerely, Lindsey Graham John McCain Kelly Ayotte ####
10.23.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he disagreed with the Department of Defense’s characterization of the 2009 shooting at Fort Hood as a case of workplace violence, not terrorism. “I respectfully disagree with the Department of Defense decision to classify the Fort Hood shooting as workplace violence. It’s not fair to the victims, and their families, for this incident to be described in that manner. “Based upon what we already know, this episode fits squarely into the realm of an act of terrorism. I will be working with my colleagues in the Senate to challenge this characterization by the Pentagon and push for an accurate description of the tragic incident that took place at Fort Hood. It was terrorism and it should be described that way. The difference in characterization between workplace violence and an act of terrorism is meaningful, in a variety of ways, to the victims and their families. “Finally, under military law Major Hasan is presumed innocent. He will be vigorously defended by counsel and provided due process during his court martial.” #####
10.19.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington­– U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today renewed their request from ten days ago that Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, CIA Director David Petraeus and John Brennan, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism, answer questions regarding the shifting official explanations surrounding the tragic murder of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three of our other fellow Americans in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012. As the senators write in their letter, “Our questions should not be hard to answer, and the American people have a right to learn what our intelligence communities knew about the events of September 11, 2012, and when they knew it.” Today’s letter and the senators’ original October 9th letter are below. October 19, 2012 The Honorable James R. Clapper, Jr. Director of National Intelligence Office of the Director of National Intelligence Washington, DC 20511 The Honorable David H. Petraeus Director of the Central Intelligence Agency Central Intelligence Agency Washington, DC 20511 The Honorable John Brennan Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism and Deputy National Security Advisor The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Director Clapper, Director Petraeus and Mr. Brennan: It has been ten days since our letter to you requesting a prompt reply to important questions regarding the circumstances of the tragic murder of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three of our other fellow Americans in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012. As of today, October 19th, we have not received a response. Our questions should not be hard to answer, and the American people have a right to learn what our intelligence communities knew about the events of September 11, 2012, and when they knew it. As time progresses, it only becomes more important for Congress and the American people to have the intelligence community clarify the confusion still surrounding the Administration’s initial explanation of the attack in Benghazi. We have important responsibilities to our constituents, who are demanding clear answers to the questions we sent to you. Your lack of response is inhibiting our ability to perform our duties on behalf of our fellow citizens. We therefore continue to seek answers to our questions and expect a reply as soon as possible. Thank you. Sincerely, Lindsey Graham John McCain Kelly Ayotte ### October 9, 2012 The Honorable James R. Clapper, Jr. Director of National Intelligence Office of the Director of National Intelligence Washington, DC 20511 The Honorable David H. Petraeus Director of the Central Intelligence Agency Central Intelligence Agency Washington, DC 20511 The Honorable John Brennan Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism and Deputy National Security Advisor The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Director Clapper, Director Petraeus and Mr. Brennan: Amid the public confusion and shifting official explanations surrounding the tragic murder of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three of our fellow Americans in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012, we write to ask you to provide your best professional judgment in response to a few questions regarding the circumstances of this attack. Clarifying the record about what information our intelligence community possessed in the aftermath of the attack in Benghazi, what judgments it reached at what time as a result of this information, and what recommendations it provided to senior policymakers as they spoke publicly about these events is a matter of utmost important for the Congress and our constituents. The American people deserve answers. We therefore ask for your prompt and thorough reply to the following questions: First, within 48 hours of the attack, was there credible information and reporting to suggest that the assault on our Consulate and other U.S. facilities in Benghazi should be characterized as a terrorist attack? This is certainly how it appeared to many Americans, allegedly including some members of the Administration. It has been reported that Under Secretary of State for Management Patrick Kennedy – a Foreign Service Officer with decades of experience, and the senior official responsible for the security of State Department operations – offered his personal judgment during a briefing to Congressional staff on the day after the attack in Benghazi that it had the hallmarks of a sophisticated, well-coordinated terrorist act. We are eager to know what the intelligence community knew, and what initial judgments it reached, at that time. Second, at what time did intelligence community agencies or elements first assess that the events in Benghazi were a terrorist attack? This is important because, as late as five days after the attack in Benghazi, senior policymakers were still characterizing it as the result of a spontaneous demonstration in response to a disgusting video insulting Islam. Furthermore, in a letter last week, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice maintained that she was relying on the best assessments of the intelligence community when she characterized the cause of the attack in Benghazi as a spontaneous protest, not an act of terrorism, during a television interview five days after the fact. Finally, what information did you and the intelligence community provide to senior policymakers that led some of them to draw the conclusion as late as five days after the attack in Benghazi that it was the result of a spontaneous demonstration, not a terrorist act? Was there no credible evidence at that late date that was compelling enough for the intelligence community and the senior policymakers to draw a conclusion with at least moderate confidence that the attack in Benghazi was a terrorist act? We look forward to your prompt reply to our questions and ask that they be submitted in unclassified form. It is important for the intelligence community to clarify the confusion that still surrounds the Administration's initial explanation of the attack in Benghazi. This matter raises many critical questions for Congress to consider further, and we appreciate your cooperation and assistance in this effort. Sincerely, Lindsey Graham John McCain Kelly Ayotte Saxby Chambliss ###
10.19.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement on the lack of United States military reinforcements to aid our Consulate in Benghazi, Libya during the September 11, 2012 attack: “A number of our constituents are asking what could have been done to protect our fellow Americans during the almost eight hour siege on our Consulate in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. As a result, we contacted Department of Defense officials. To our dismay, we were informed that despite ample warning signs that the immediate region remained unstable and our people under threat, inadequate preparations were made to respond to what in retrospect seems a likely attack. “We were told reconnaissance aircraft were sent, and that a surveillance drone had been repositioned in response to the attack. But we were both shocked to hear that on September 11th, a day of heightened concern for American interests throughout the world, there were no land forces available to support Benghazi, Libya—one of the most vulnerable and high threat areas within the Middle East. We were further stunned and disappointed to hear that there was no effort to use fighter aircraft to disperse the attack or support the consulate. One of the most disturbing aspects of this situation was the low level of security and the lack of ability to reinforce the consulate that had been attacked on two previous occasions, in a region where most Western interests had withdrawn because of al-Qaeda-inspired militia. “The last two casualties occurred well over six hours after the initial attack. It was known early that the U.S. Ambassador to Libya was missing. His whereabouts were only discovered when Libyan hospital officials, who were attending to Ambassador Stevens, found his cell phone and made a call. It is disappointing to hear that our national command authorities failed to try to reinforce the Consulate with timely air assets, and that a consulate located in one of the most dangerous regions in the world was so unsecured.” ####
10.16.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has written to President Barack Obama and intelligence officials requesting information about what was known and what action was taken -- if any -- in response to previous attacks against the United States Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. Graham noted that on June 6, 2012, assailants placed an IED on the northern gate of the United States Consulate in Benghazi. The IED detonated and ripped a hole in the security perimeter that was described by one individual as, “big enough for forty men to go through.” This attack was preceded by an earlier IED attack against the Consulate in April 2012. Graham asked President Obama, “Mr. President, were you informed of these attacks on our Libyan consulate? If not, why not? Did you consider these serious events? If you were informed, what action was taken to protect the Consulate?” Graham also sent letters to CIA Director David Petraeus, National Security Advisor Thomas Donilon, Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, and Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism and Deputy National Security Advisor John Brennan requesting similar information: “Did you inform the President of these attacks? If so, what action was taken to protect our Consulate? If you did not inform the President, why not?” Ambassador Chris Stevens and three other Americans were killed during the September 11, 2012 attack on the United States Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. ##### Senator Graham's Letter to President Obama
10.15.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the death of Peatsy Hollings: “South Carolina has lost one of her finest with the passing of Peatsy Hollings. She was an incredible person and exhibited class and grace throughout her long and successful life. From her service as an educator to her tireless advocacy for those in need, Mrs. Hollings was a great role model. My thoughts and prayers go out to Senator Hollings and their entire family. She will be sorely missed. ####
10.15.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today released the following statement on Secretary of State Hillary Clinton’s comments this evening regarding the terrorist attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi on September 11, 2012: “We have just learned that Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has claimed full responsibility for any failure to secure our people and our Consulate in Benghazi prior to the attack of September 11, 2012. This is a laudable gesture, especially when the White House is trying to avoid any responsibility whatsoever. “However, we must remember that the events of September 11 were preceded by an escalating pattern of attacks this year in Benghazi, including a bomb that was thrown into our Consulate in April, another explosive device that was detonated outside of our Consulate in June, and an assassination attempt on the British Ambassador. If the President was truly not aware of this rising threat level in Benghazi, then we have lost confidence in his national security team, whose responsibility it is to keep the President informed. But if the President was aware of these earlier attacks in Benghazi prior to the events of September 11, 2012, then he bears full responsibility for any security failures that occurred. The security of Americans serving our nation everywhere in the world is ultimately the job of the Commander-in-Chief. The buck stops there. “Furthermore, there is the separate issue of the insistence by members of the Administration, including the President himself, that the attack in Benghazi was the result of a spontaneous demonstration triggered by a hateful video, long after it had become clear that the real cause was a terrorist attack. The President also bears responsibility for this portrayal of the attack, and we continue to believe that the American people deserve to know why the Administration acted as it did." ####
10.12.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and U.S. Congressman Trey Gowdy (South Carolina-4) have sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder urging him to uphold South Carolina’s Voter ID law. “South Carolina passed a Voter ID bill, complied with federal law by submitting it for pre-clearance, and was ultimately vindicated by the October 10 ruling,” said Graham and Gowdy. “Appealing the Court’s ruling will cost both the Federal government and the State of South Carolina more money in litigation costs; money that can be better utilized in other areas. The facts are clear and are why the Court upheld South Carolina’s common-sense Voter ID law. The ruling should not be challenged." Full text of the letter is below: October 11, 2012 The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder: Yesterday, the D.C. District Court issued a unanimous decision to grant pre-clearance to South Carolina’s recently enacted Voter ID law (Act R54). In doing so, the Court confirmed our beliefs and previous statements that Act R54 has neither a discriminatory effect nor purpose. We strongly support the Court’s decision and encourage you to respect the verdict. Appealing the Court’s ruling will cost both the Federal government and the State of South Carolina more money in litigation costs; money that can be better utilized in other areas. Further, the Supreme Court has already held that Voter ID laws are legitimate and important state interests. The facts are clear and are why the Court upheld South Carolina’s common-sense Voter ID law. In May 2011, South Carolina passed Act R54 in an effort to improve the integrity of the South Carolina voting system. To achieve this goal, the law requires voters to present a photo ID at the polls. Not only does Act R54 expand the list of qualifying photo IDs, including one that is free, but it allows voters without a photo ID to still cast a ballot. The voter simply has to show his voter registration card and sign a “reasonable impediment” affidavit swearing that he is the elector on the poll list and stating the reason he was unable to obtain a photo ID. Pursuant to the requirements of section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, South Carolina submitted Act R54 to the Department of Justice (DOJ) for pre-clearance. According to data South Carolina included in its submission, the disparity between white and black voters without qualifying ID was less than 1.6%. To address this and other potential concerns surrounding voters affected by the law, South Carolina also submitted its new voter education materials, its plan to implement the free photo ID program to assist those without qualifying ID in obtaining one, and a SC Attorney General Opinion explaining a broad interpretation of the “reasonable impediment” standard. Nevertheless, DOJ denied preclearance shortly thereafter. Following the denial, South Carolina filed suit challenging the DOJ determination. After a weeklong trial and a round of oral arguments, South Carolina successfully defended its law. The Court concluded that, “[m]uch of the …rhetoric surrounding the law…was based on a misunderstanding of how the law would work.” The Court went on to unanimously pre-clear every challenged section of Act R54. In conclusion, we request that you respect South Carolina law and not challenge the unanimous decision of the Court. Act R54 does not have a discriminatory effect on any class of voters, but instead serves to protect each vote cast. The pre-clearance takes effect beginning in the 2013 election cycle. This provides ample time for South Carolina voters to obtain qualifying voter ID. South Carolina passed a Voter ID bill; complied with federal law by submitting it for pre-clearance; and was ultimately vindicated by the October 10 ruling. Yesterday’s ruling should not be challenged. We look forward to your timely response. Thank you. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham Trey Gowdy ####
10.09.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) today sent letters to Director of National Intelligence James Clapper, CIA Director David Petraeus, and John Brennan, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism, asking them to respond to specific questions regarding the shifting official explanations surrounding the tragic murder of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three of our fellow Americans in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012. As the senators write in their letter, “Clarifying the record about what information our intelligence community possessed in the aftermath of the attack in Benghazi, what judgments it reached at what time as a result of this information, and what recommendations it provided to senior policymakers as they spoke publicly about these events is a matter of utmost important for the Congress and our constituents. The American people deserve answers.” October 9, 2012 The Honorable James R. Clapper, Jr. Director of National Intelligence Office of the Director of National Intelligence Washington, DC 20511 The Honorable David H. Petraeus Director of the Central Intelligence Agency Central Intelligence Agency Washington, DC 20511 The Honorable John Brennan Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism and Deputy National Security Advisor The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Director Clapper, Director Petraeus and Mr. Brennan: Amid the public confusion and shifting official explanations surrounding the tragic murder of Ambassador Chris Stevens and three of our fellow Americans in Benghazi, Libya on September 11, 2012, we write to ask you to provide your best professional judgment in response to a few questions regarding the circumstances of this attack. Clarifying the record about what information our intelligence community possessed in the aftermath of the attack in Benghazi, what judgments it reached at what time as a result of this information, and what recommendations it provided to senior policymakers as they spoke publicly about these events is a matter of utmost important for the Congress and our constituents. The American people deserve answers. We therefore ask for your prompt and thorough reply to the following questions: First, within 48 hours of the attack, was there credible information and reporting to suggest that the assault on our Consulate and other U.S. facilities in Benghazi should be characterized as a terrorist attack? This is certainly how it appeared to many Americans, allegedly including some members of the Administration. It has been reported that Under Secretary of State for Management Patrick Kennedy – a Foreign Service Officer with decades of experience, and the senior official responsible for the security of State Department operations – offered his personal judgment during a briefing to Congressional staff on the day after the attack in Benghazi that it had the hallmarks of a sophisticated, well-coordinated terrorist act. We are eager to know what the intelligence community knew, and what initial judgments it reached, at that time. Second, at what time did intelligence community agencies or elements first assess that the events in Benghazi were a terrorist attack? This is important because, as late as five days after the attack in Benghazi, senior policymakers were still characterizing it as the result of a spontaneous demonstration in response to a disgusting video insulting Islam. Furthermore, in a letter last week, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice maintained that she was relying on the best assessments of the intelligence community when she characterized the cause of the attack in Benghazi as a spontaneous protest, not an act of terrorism, during a television interview five days after the fact. Finally, what information did you and the intelligence community provide to senior policymakers that led some of them to draw the conclusion as late as five days after the attack in Benghazi that it was the result of a spontaneous demonstration, not a terrorist act? Was there no credible evidence at that late date that was compelling enough for the intelligence community and the senior policymakers to draw a conclusion with at least moderate confidence that the attack in Benghazi was a terrorist act? We look forward to your prompt reply to our questions and ask that they be submitted in unclassified form. It is important for the intelligence community to clarify the confusion that still surrounds the Administration's initial explanation of the attack in Benghazi. This matter raises many critical questions for Congress to consider further, and we appreciate your cooperation and assistance in this effort. Sincerely, Lindsey Graham John McCain Kelly Ayotte Saxby Chambliss ###
10.05.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) sent a letter today to defense contractors urging them to follow the WARN Act despite the Obama Administration’s guidance encouraging employers not to issue notices before the election. The Administration has also offered to reimburse employers for any legal action taken by employees should sequestration occur. “We plan to block any effort by the Administration to reimburse contractors who fail to provide the required WARN Act notifications,” said Senators Graham and McCain. “We will oppose any requested funding increase in the budget process, any reprogramming action, including transfers that fall below the level requiring Congressional notification, or the use of any program funds to reimburse contractors for any expenses resulting from failure to comply with the law.” “Despite the Administration’s guidance not to issue WARN notices now, it is our fear that, should you rely on that guidance and fail to comply with the WARN Act requirements, you will be setting your company up for serious legal and financial repercussions. The Congress should not put the taxpayers on the hook if a private company fails to follow the law.” The letter was sent to fifteen major contractors: Lockheed Martin Corporation, Raytheon Company, L-3 Communications Holdings Inc., Northrup Grumman Corporation, Huntington Ingalls Industries, the Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., CSC, SAIC, BAE Systems Inc., ATK, ITT Exelis, EADS North America Inc. and United Technologies Corporation. Full text of the letter is below: October 5, 2012 Dear Sir: Earlier this year, we and several colleagues sent you a letter requesting information regarding the effect of sequestration, required by the 2011 Budget Control Act (BCA), will have on your company and your workforce. In light of the lack of progress in avoiding sequestration and the recent guidance from the Administration on the allowability of certain Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification (WARN) compliance costs, we feel it is important to advise that we do not believe compliance with the WARN Act is optional. The law clearly states that workers must be notified at least 60 days in advance of a potential mass layoff or plant closure, and it is unclear to us, in light of the Administration’s refusal to plan for sequestration, how the Administration can guarantee that no sequester-related budget cuts or contract actions will occur on January 2 or shortly thereafter that would have that result. If such notices are withheld until entirely foreseeable contract terminations or job losses are identified after sequestration is implemented, the cost to the taxpayer could potentially increase to billions of dollars. Even more disturbing, contractors may decide not to issue such notices at all, since the threat of financial liability for failing to do so would fall on the government, not the contractor. We plan to block any effort by the Administration to reimburse contractors who fail to provide the required WARN Act notifications. We will oppose any requested funding increase in the budget process, any reprogramming action, including transfers that fall below the level requiring Congressional notification, or use of any program funds to reimburse contractors for any expenses resulting from failure to comply with the law. As the Secretary of Defense and Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff have repeatedly said, the potential impact of sequestration on our national security and defense programs will be devastating, and compounding that impact by draining additional resources from programs to pay wholly avoidable costs due to failure to issue WARN notices is unconscionable. Make no mistake about it. The looming sequester is very real and the impacts will be felt in every corner of our economy. According to a study produced by Stephen Fuller, director of George Mason University’s Center for Regional Analysis, the sequester could reduce employment across the economy by 2.1 million jobs in FY2013. Further, a study produced for the National Association of Manufactures by the University of Maryland found that defense-dependent employment will be reduced by 907,000 jobs in calendar year 2013. We wholeheartedly believe that it is in no one’s best interest to create unnecessary anxiety in your workforce, and it is our hope that Congress and the Administration act as soon as possible to avoid the severe consequences of the sequester. However, we are three months from the date sequestration is scheduled to take effect, and neither the Senate nor the Administration have put forward a plan to address the issue. Further, the Congress is not even scheduled to come back into session until the week of November 13. This leaves precious little time for a plan to come together. Despite efforts by the Administration to ignore the facts, sequestration and the WARN Act are the law of the land. Despite the Administration’s guidance not to issue WARN notices now, it is our fear that, should you rely on that guidance and fail to comply with the WARN Act requirements, you will be setting your company up for serious legal and financial repercussions. The Congress should not put the taxpayers on the hook if a private company fails to follow the law. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham John McCain #####
10.05.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – In an October 4 letter to U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) and Ron Johnson (R-WI), U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Susan Rice responded to the senators’ inquiry about her repeated and inaccurate characterization of the attack in Benghazi as a “spontaneous reaction” that was not preplanned. In yesterday’s letter, Ambassador Rice wrote, “I relied solely and squarely on the information the intelligence community provided to me…This information represented the intelligence community’s best, current assessment as of the date of my television appearances.” Ambassador Rice also asserted in the letter that “the U.S. intelligence community and the FBI have launched a comprehensive effort to determine the circumstances surrounding the assault…” Senators McCain, Graham, Ayotte, and Johnson responded with the following statement: “The Obama administration failed to sufficiently protect our consulate and diplomats in Benghazi in the face of obvious and growing threats in eastern Libya in the months leading up to the September 11, 2012, terrorist attack. To make matters worse, the administration mishandled its response to the attack and appears to have selected intelligence that mischaracterized the attack and misled the American people. “Elements of the intelligence community apparently told the administration within hours of the attack that militants connected with al Qaeda were involved, yet Ambassador Rice claims her comments five days later reflected the ‘best’ and ‘current’ assessment of the intelligence community. Either the Obama administration is misleading Congress and the American people, or it is blaming the entire failure on the intelligence community. “Ambassador Rice claims the administration launched a ‘comprehensive’ effort to determine what happened in Benghazi, but the administration failed to secure the scene of the terrorist attack for three weeks – allowing evidence and sensitive information to be compromised and destroyed. From beginning to end, the administration’s behavior in the wake of the attack indicates a breathtaking level of incompetence and suggests an intent to deliberately mislead Congress and the American people.” ###
10.01.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Obama Administration’s guidance encouraging employers not to issue WARN Act notices before the election. “In 2007, Senator Obama wanted to extend the WARN ACT notices to 90 days, up from 60, to ensure workers were treated fairly. Now, President Obama is trying to suppress the issuance of WARN notices, which will hit mailboxes right before the election. The Obama Administration’s legal advice is dubious at best. “This is typical Barack Obama politics – being supportive of the WARN Act when convenient and against it when it creates political downside. This is the most outcome-based White House in memory. “The WARN ACT is crystal clear when it comes to defense contractors having to issue notices of impending layoffs as a result of sequestration. I hope defense contractors will follow the law and warn their employees about the devastating impact of sequestration. “Sequestration is the law of the land and clearly calls for devastating defense cuts. The hundreds of thousands of workers affected by these cuts should be made aware immediately. #####
09.27.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and John McCain today released the following statement on Libya: “Today, more than two weeks after the attack on our Consulate in Benghazi, President Obama finally called this what it clearly was: an act of terrorism, not a spontaneous protest against a disgusting video. Secretary Clinton said also today the attack was linked to Al-Qaeda. This is exactly what senior Libyan leaders have been saying from almost the moment the attack occurred, despite earlier claims to the contrary by members of the Administration. Indeed, that the Benghazi tragedy was a terrorist attack has been clear to anyone who understands that ordinary protesters do not bring machine guns, mortars, and rocket-propelled grenades to a demonstration. “We recognize that Al-Qaeda involvement in a terrorist attack that killed four Americans in Libya is an inconvenient truth for a President who claims to be destroying Al-Qaeda. But it is not too much to ask why the President and his Administration have taken so long to state what has appeared obvious for a long time about what really happened in Benghazi on September 11, 2012. This is just one more example of this President's failure to lead in the Middle East and how that failure has threatened America's national security interests. Now is not the time to lead from behind.” ###
09.26.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John McCain (R-Arizona), Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) and Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin) sent a letter to U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice seeking clarification on her statements that the September 11 terrorist attack in Benghazi, Libya was the result of a “spontaneous reaction.” The evidence clearly shows the attack that resulted in the death of four Americans including Ambassador Chris Stevens was planned and coordinated. “In the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attack in Benghazi that resulted in the death of four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens, you made several troubling statements that are inconsistent with the facts and require explanation,” the Senators wrote. “We look forward to a timely response that explains how the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations could characterize an attack on a U.S. consulate so inaccurately five days after a terrorist attack that killed four Americans.” Full text of the letter is below: September 25, 2012 Ambassador Susan Rice United States Mission to the United Nations 799 United Nations Plaza New York, N.Y. 10017-3505 Dear Ambassador Rice: In the aftermath of the September 11 terrorist attack in Benghazi that resulted in the death of four Americans, including Ambassador Chris Stevens, you made several troubling statements that are inconsistent with the facts and require explanation. Speaking on Meet the Press on September 16, you said, “What happened in Benghazi was in fact initially a spontaneous reaction to what had just transpired hours before in Cairo, almost a copycat of the demonstrations against our facility in Cairo, which were prompted, of course, by the video.” Speaking on Fox News Sunday, you said, “We are of the view that this is not an expression of hostility in the broader sense toward the United States or U.S. policy. It's approximately a reaction to this video...” On September 14, the Libyan President, Mohamed Yousef el Magariaf, said the attack on our consulate in Benghazi was “preplanned.” Two days later and immediately before your interview on CBS’s Face the Nation, the Libyan President reiterated that the attack was planned “a few months ago.” When you followed the Libyan President on this same program, the host confronted you with the discrepancy between your comments and the comments of the Libyan President. You again described the attacks as “spontaneous” and said the attacks were not “preplanned”. By the date of your comments, it was already clear that the attack in Libya was a terrorist attack, and that heavily armed and well trained attackers appeared to have prepared for an opportunity to attack U.S. interests. We also knew that there is a significant network of al Qaeda affiliated groups and other terrorists in eastern Libya, some of whom have attacked western interests in the last few months. Yet, you repeatedly asserted the implausible explanation that the attack in Benghazi was a spontaneous reaction to the video despite growing evidence to the contrary. Before your appearance on a number of Sunday shows, we also knew that Ayman al Zawahiri, the head of al Qaeda, released a video just before the attacks acknowledging and eulogizing the death of Abu Yahya al Libi and calling for terrorist attacks. As you know, al Libi was a Libyan who served as the second in command in al Qaeda under al Zawahiri and was a top leader in the Libyan Islamic Fighting Group. The U.S. killed al Libi in a drone strike in North Waziristan, Pakistan, in June 2012. You were surely aware of these facts on September 16 when you made your remarks. Yet, these facts, including the unlikely coincidence that the attack was conducted on the anniversary of the September 11 terrorist attacks, did not prevent you from making confident and counterintuitive assertions to the contrary. These facts did not prevent you from labeling the murder of four Americans as a “spontaneous reaction” to the video and “not an expression of hostility…toward the United States.” If the murder of four American diplomats is not “an expression of hostility” it is difficult to know what would be. We look forward to a timely response that explains how the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations could characterize an attack on a U.S. consulate so inaccurately five days after a terrorist attack that killed four Americans. Sincerely, John McCain Lindsey Graham Kelly Ayotte Ron Johnson #####
09.25.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) today released the following joint statement on President Obama’s recent comments about “bumps in the road” in the Middle East on his watch: “President Obama recently said the broader Middle East has been experiencing some ‘bumps in the road.’ If the President had taken some time to hold even one meeting with his foreign colleagues during his visit to the U.N. General Assembly in New York today, perhaps they would have told him what has really happened in the Middle East on his watch. “It is not a ‘bump in the road’ when American embassies, and those of our friends and allies, are attacked by hateful mobs who also murder their fellow citizens, allegedly because of a disgusting and bigoted video. That is the result of extremists who would seize on any opportunity to further their ideological agenda – extremists who have been gaining ground over the past two years. “It is not a ‘bump in the road’ when Al-Qaeda fighters and their terrorist allies have been gaining ground in Libya, a country the United States helped to liberate but has not sufficiently supported in its ongoing struggle against lawlessness and violent extremism. “It is not a ‘bump in the road’ when the relationship between the United States and Israel has never been worse at a time when the threat from Iran has never been greater and when events in the Middle East have never been more tumultuous or uncertain. “It is not a ‘bump in the road’ when Israel and our Gulf partners have never had less confidence in the willingness of the American President to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability. “It is not a ‘bump in the road’ when more than 25,000 men, women, and children have been slaughtered by the Assad regime in Syria – a conflict that is destabilizing the region, putting weapons of mass destruction at risk, creating a new safe haven for Al-Qaeda and its terrorist allies, and growing more dangerous by the day for the United States and our allies. That is the result of the President’s complete lack of leadership and unwillingness to take the necessary actions together with our friends and allies that could end the violence and create the conditions for a negotiated transition to a more peaceful, democratic future in Syria. “It is not a ‘bump in the road’ when a small group of insurgents are able to destroy nearly a quarter of a billion dollars in U.S. fighter aircraft in a single attack in Kandahar – or when the ‘insider attacks’ against our forces and those of our allies have risen to such an extent that our commander has suspended training and joint operations with Afghan units, which is the core of our strategy to succeed. That is the result this Administration’s consistent efforts to cut corners in the war in Afghanistan – giving our commanders fewer troops than they recommended and withdrawing them in larger numbers and at a faster pace than our commanders advised, which is resulted in the very additional risks to our mission that our military leaders warned. “It is not a ‘bump in the road’ when violence in Iraq is rising, the Iraqi political system is growing more authoritarian, Iranian meddling and influence is growing, and the Maliki government is allowing Iran to fly planeloads of weapons and fighters into Syria through Iraqi airspace. That is the result of a U.S. President who has squandered the gains of the surge in order to fulfill his campaign promise of withdrawing all U.S. troops from Iraq, even at the expense of our national security interests. “None of these events are ‘bumps in the road.’ They are failures of American leadership. And they call for the United States to begin leading more actively, rather than trying to lead from behind.” ###
09.25.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and U.S. Congressman Trey Gowdy (SC-4) today sent a letter to Attorney General Eric Holder requesting documents pertaining to the Department of Justice’s opposition to South Carolina’s Voter ID law. Graham and Gowdy expressed concerns that an approval recommendation by career Voting Section experts was ignored and overruled by Obama appointees at the Justice Department. In 2011, South Carolina enacted a law to prevent voter fraud by requiring voters to present a photo ID at the polls. The ID is free and anyone with a reasonable impediment to obtaining the ID may vote after completing an affidavit. South Carolina is covered by Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act, and therefore had to seek approval from the Justice Department before implementing the law. “It is troubling that scarce funds are likely being wasted opposing common sense legislation that was cleared by the Department’s own nonpartisan experts,” the members wrote. “We must understand the Department’s rationale for fighting this law when experts within DOJ deemed it acceptable. Taxpayer dollars are not meant to be spent on partisan projects by the Administration.” The Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, Lamar Smith (R-TX), also signed the letter. Smith has been a leader in defending a similar Texas Voter ID law. Full text of the letter is below: September 24, 2012 The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice Washington, D.C. 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder, We are troubled by a report that Justice Department political appointees ignored and overruled career Voting Section experts’ recommendation that South Carolina’s voter ID law be approved. Accordingly, we request all documents and communications pertaining to the Department’s decision to oppose the law and pursue costly litigation. We are concerned that scarce funds are likely being wasted opposing common sense legislation that was cleared by the Department’s own nonpartisan experts. In 2011, South Carolina passed Act R54 requiring voters to present a photo ID at polls. The ID is free and anyone with a reasonable impediment in obtaining one may still vote after completing an affidavit. However, before implementing this common sense measure, South Carolina was required to submit it to the Justice Department for approval. The reason is section 5 of the Voting Rights Act says jurisdictions cannot change their election procedures without prior Justice Department or court approval if those jurisdictions had low minority voter turnout back in the 1972 elections. According to a recent report, South Carolina’s law was reviewed by expert civil rights analysts, a veteran attorney reviewer, the deputy chief in charge of Section 5 enforcement, and ultimately the section chief. The data showed the difference in voter ID possession between blacks and whites was less than 1.6%. Additionally, voters who lacked ID could still cast a ballot as long as they swore to an affidavit verifying their identity. Career staff prepared extensive detailed memos on this and recommended preclearance.[1] Nevertheless, says the report, citing a DOJ source, Assistant Attorney General Tom Perez and Deputy Assistant Attorney General Matthew Colangelo overruled the recommendation and ordered the Department to object. Thus, on December 23, 2011, despite the well-reasoned recommendation of these career employees, DOJ disregarded their recommendation and rejected the law. South Carolina sued in federal court to reverse the decision. In 2005, then Senator Obama wrote Attorney General Gonzales that he was worried “political appointees have ignored the decisions and recommendations of career attorneys in voting rights cases.”[2] The context was the preclearance of Georgia’s voter ID law. We assume President Obama would be equally outraged if the same problem festered in his own Justice Department and would move swiftly to discipline those involved. Accordingly, we ask you to assist the Committee in conducting oversight of DOJ’s enforcement powers with respect to voting rights and election law by providing all DOJ documents regarding, discussing or otherwise relevant to the Department’s preclearance decision on the South Carolina law, including the memos recommending preclearance and any documents discussing the decision to disregard that recommendation. We must understand the Department’s rationale for fighting this law when experts within DOJ deemed it acceptable. Taxpayer dollars are not meant to be spent on partisan projects by the Administration. Therefore we also request an estimate of DOJ’s costs to date in defending its decision before the federal court. Thank you very much. Sincerely, Lindsey O. Graham Trey Gowdy Lamar Smith ####
09.24.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his vote against the Paul Amendment. The amendment failed 10-81. “The Paul Amendment was so poorly drafted it could cut off funding to close American allies like Israel. Under the Paul Amendment, if Hamas – a terrorist organization committed to the destruction of Israel -- were to ‘attack, trespass, or breach’ the U.S. Embassy in Tel Aviv, the United States would be forced to cut off assistance to Israel. “Al-Qaeda and like-minded radical Islamist groups would love nothing more than for the United States to withdraw from the region and world at large. No matter how well-meaning Senator Paul’s amendment may be, now is not the time to give radical Islam a big victory. Therefore, I could not support the Paul Amendment. “In many ways the Mideast is on fire and the flames are being stoked by radical Islamists who understand they cannot achieve their goals unless they drive the United States out of the region. These radical Islamists, along with their close Al Qaeda associates, are desperately trying to cut off the oxygen supply to many of the new Mideast governments which have been formed through democratic elections.” “Finally, there was no consultation with the Director of the CIA, General David Petraeus, about what passage of this amendment would mean. I have been informed by the intelligence community that now is the worst possible time to disengage. While cutting off foreign assistance may make for good short-term politics, it creates dangerous long-term national security concerns. “Since 9/11 we have been well-served by taking the fight to the enemy in their own backyard. The terrorists would love for us to disengage from the region so they could regain a lost foothold. If we disengage, I’m convinced the fight would once again move to our back yard. “Our aid to the Egyptian and Pakistani military and Libyan government provides leverage and influence at a time when we need it the most. I will do everything in my power to keep the fight in the terrorist’s backyard. That requires us staying involved in a constructive way, not just by the use of military force.” ##### Status of Nations and U.S. Aid Cited in the Paul Amendment Pakistan is a nuclear-armed nation which must not be allowed to fall into the hands of the radical Islamic extremists. Under current law, United States aid to Pakistan is contingent on their cooperation on security issues. Senator Graham has expressed support for recent agreements with Pakistan that reopen the supply route to American troops in neighboring Afghanistan. Egypt is the heart of the Arab World and is struggling to find its footing after years of dictatorship. Senator Graham was the author of American law which put conditions on continued Egyptian aid. Under the Graham provision, if Egypt breaks their treaty with Israel, American aid will stop. Likewise, if democratic institutions in Egypt are shut down, American aid will stop. Libya: The assassination of the American Ambassador to Libya and other Americans was a terrorist attack plotted and executed by radical Islamists. The attack does not represent the views of the beliefs of the Libyan populace. In recent elections, the radical Islamists only received about 10 percent of the vote. Withdrawal of American aid would only embolden and empower the radical Islamists who hate democracy, tolerance and modern thought.
09.21.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement after the Senate debated his resolution ruling out a strategy of containment for a nuclear-capable Iran. The bipartisan resolution, which has 84 Senate co-sponsors, is expected to pass the Senate late tonight. “I’m very pleased with the overwhelming bipartisan support for my resolution rejecting the policy of containing a nuclear-capable Iran,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “If Iran is ever allowed to obtain nuclear weapons capability, containment will be almost impossible. “My biggest fear is the radical Iranian regime, led by Ahmadinejad, would share nuclear technology with terrorist organizations,” said Graham. “We would be under serious threat of attack and close allies like Israel would never know a minute’s peace. In addition, Sunni Arab states in the region would almost certainly seek a nuclear capability of their own to counter Iran.” Graham noted that President Obama and Governor Romney both reject the policy of containing a nuclear-armed Iran. The Graham resolution: Strongly rejects any policy that fails to prevent the Iranian government from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability and would settle for future efforts to “contain” a nuclear weapons capable Iran. Urges President Obama to reaffirm the unacceptability of an Iran with nuclear-weapons capability and oppose any policy that would rely on containment as an option in response to the Iranian nuclear threat. Urges continued and increasing economic and diplomatic pressure on Iran until they agree to the full and sustained suspension of all uranium enrichment-related and reprocessing activities, complete cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on all outstanding questions related to their nuclear activities including implementation of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Additional Protocol, and the verified end of their ballistic missile programs. “Sanctions and diplomacy are two ways to stop Iran, and I am hopeful that they work,” Graham continued. “However, the current sanctions are affecting Iran’s economy but not changing their behavior regarding their nuclear ambitions. “Time is running out and tonight’s vote will be a strong statement by the United States Senate that we will not allow Iran to possess nuclear weapons capability,” concluded Graham. “I cannot think of a more appropriate time for the Senate to make such an important statement.” #####
09.19.2012	Tate Zeigelr (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham, John McCain, and Joe Lieberman and today released the following statement regarding the decision to scale back combined operations between coalition and Afghan forces: “In light of the tragic recent attacks on U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan, we understand and respect the rationale for scaling back combined operations between coalition and Afghan troops. However, we also believe this decision raises questions about the broader strategy that the Obama Administration has been pursuing in this conflict, especially with respect to its timetable for drawing down our military forces in Afghanistan. “Over the past three years, the Administration has repeatedly deployed fewer forces than our commanders recommended, and is now drawing down those forces in larger numbers and at a faster pace than our commanders advised. Our military leaders have testified to Congress that these decisions have put our mission in Afghanistan at greater risk, and those risks are now becoming more apparent. In particular, we are concerned that the rush to build up the Afghan National Security Forces as quickly as possible – so that U.S. forces could begin withdrawing on the Administration's timetable – has contributed to the problem of the so-called ‘insider attacks.’ “The President has said that the drawdown of U.S. forces from Afghanistan would be responsive to conditions on the ground. We believe those conditions are now worrisome enough to justify an immediate suspension of further U.S. troop withdrawals at this time. The purpose of this ‘strategic pause’ should be to give our commanders time to evaluate the effects of recent troop withdrawals and to offer their best military advice on how we can achieve our goals in Afghanistan, while preventing further attacks on our forces and those of our allies. We cannot afford to rush to failure in Afghanistan. “Despite the despicable acts of violence by a few Afghans, we must remember that there are literally hundreds of thousands of other Afghans who have been waging this war side-by-side with our own forces. They are risking their lives – and giving their lives – in far greater numbers than Americans or any of other coalition partner, in order to prevent al Qaeda and its allies from regaining control of Afghanistan. These brave Afghans embody the hopes and dreams of the vast majority of their fellow citizens, who do not want their country to become a terrorist safe haven again, as it was before 9/11, and who simply want to live in peace. After all we have committed to this conflict over 11 challenging years, and considering the critical national security interest we have at stake in Afghanistan, we should now take a step back in light of conditions on the ground to determine what we must do to succeed in this war.” ####
09.17.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement calling for a Congressional investigation into last week’s attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya. “The Obama Administration’s insistence that the attack on our consulate in Benghazi, Libya resulted from a riot inspired by a film, rather than a planned and coordinated attack, defies common sense. It is imperative that Congress conduct an investigation into this matter, as the two scenarios are vastly different in terms of scope and depth. A planned and coordinated assault points loudly to a security lapse, and the problems associated with such a scenario are much deeper than a violent riot over a film. “The tragic loss of Ambassador Stevens and three other brave Americans needs to be fully understood so that we will be prepared in the future for similar attacks. It is my belief, as stated by the Libyan president, that this was a coordinated attack by al-Qaeda or like-minded groups, and it points to severe lapses of security in a region where likely attacks can be anticipated. The bottom line is statements by the Obama Administration must be properly scrutinized, and that is the proper role of Congress.” Graham also said he supports legislation introduced by Senators Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) and Bob Corker (R-Tennessee) that would require investigations into the September 11-13, 2012 attacks on U.S. missions. ####
09.12.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Joe Lieberman (I-Connecticut) today released the following joint statement regarding the attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya yesterday. “We are anguished and outraged by the death of four citizens of the United States, including Ambassador Chris Stevens, during an attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi. Our thoughts and prayers go out to their families. “Chris was one of America's finest and bravest diplomats, and also someone we considered a friend. In the midst of last year's uprising in Libya, Chris traveled at great personal risk to Benghazi to represent the country he loved as the U.S. envoy to the Libyan opposition. He advanced American interests and values in Libya and stood with the Libyan people throughout their struggle for freedom and during the challenging times that followed. His death at the hands of extremists is a tragic and awful loss for the people of both the United States and Libya. “There is still much we do not know about what happened in Benghazi yesterday. What is clear, however, is that the attackers must be apprehended and punished. We appreciate that senior Libyan leaders have condemned these cowardly attacks, and we now look to the Libyan government to ensure that the perpetrators are swiftly brought to justice, and that U.S. diplomats are protected. We have confidence that our own government will provide all necessary assistance to this end. “Yesterday's attack is a tragic and terrible reminder that – despite the hopes of the Arab Spring – the forces of violent extremism in the Middle East are far from defeated, and that the revolutions inspired by millions of people who dream of freedom and democracy can still be hijacked by small groups of violent extremists who are eager to kill to advance their evil ideology. “Despite this horrific attack, we cannot give in to the temptation to believe that our support for the democratic aspirations of people in Libya, Egypt, and elsewhere in the broader Middle East is naive or mistaken. We cannot resign ourselves to the false belief that the Arab Spring is doomed to be defined not by the desire for democracy and freedom that has inspired millions of people to peaceful action, but by the dark fanaticism of terrorists. “To follow this misguided path would not only be a victory for the extremists and their associates, but a betrayal of everything for which Chris Stevens and his colleagues stood and gave their lives. In short, it would be a betrayal of our own best ideals as Americans and our own enduring interest in using our great influence to support the overwhelming majority of people in the Middle East who want to be free from the kinds of murderers and terrorists who killed our people yesterday in Benghazi.” ###
09.10.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the transfer of Afghanistan’s Parwan Detention Facility to Afghan control. “The transfer of the Parwan Detention Facility is a significant achievement and major step forward in the planned transition from American to Afghan control of the war. “I have seen the cautious, balanced approach on prison transfer develop from its beginning stages to full implementation. I also know from my own personal experiences that those who worked on this project have kept American and Afghan security interests at the forefront of their thinking. For this reason, the agreement contains important checks and balances addressing the potential release of individuals likely to go back to the fight. “During my travels to Afghanistan, I have constantly reinforced the message with Afghan President Karzai that if you push prisoner transition from American to Afghan control too far and too fast -- resulting in a release of a detainee who commits a future act of violence -- it would do serious damage to American support for the mission. “There are two groups of prisoners who have to be cautiously dealt with. The first is third-country nationals who have been captured in Afghanistan and linked to the highest levels of the Al-Qaeada movement and other terrorist organizations. These prisoners, in my view, should never be placed in the Afghan legal system. They should remain in U.S. custody as they represent great national security threats to our nation. They are also good candidates for detention at Guantanamo Bay. “The second group is Afghans who have been labeled as enduring security threats by our forces because of their ties to the Taliban or Haqqani network. We must never transfer these high value threats until the Afghan legal system has proven to be sound and capable of dealing with such cases. I’m confident General Allen and the Obama Administration will be rightly cautious when it comes to transferring prisoners who represent a high security risk. We will continue to work with the Afghan government to resolve the future of this small category of prisoners. “My goal has always been to enhance Afghan sovereignty while never losing focus on U.S. force protection. I am hopeful this prison transition will create a partnership between U.S. and Afghan military and intelligence forces allowing us to gather intelligence as well as keep enemy forces off the battlefield. “I have seen no inclination by U.S. forces or the Obama Administration to transition control of the prison in a haphazard manner or to wash our hands of this problem. Quite the contrary, I have seen a focused effort to ensure this is done correctly in both the short and long-term. “Looking forward, I believe the transfer of the Parwan facility can become a model for how to achieve Afghan sovereignty in other areas as well. With continued mentoring and resources, the Afghans have the will and ability to chart their own destiny to a better, brighter future. “Congratulations to General Huber and his team at Task Force 435, along with their U.S. Embassy counterparts, in making this transfer successful and timely. Under their leadership, the facility has become a model for Law of War detention.” #####
09.07.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the national unemployment rate had dropped to 8.1 percent because another 368,000 Americans decided to stop looking for work. The labor participation rate fell to 65.3 percent, its lowest level in more than 30 years. “A drop in the unemployment rate is usually good news, but certainly not today. This report shows thousands of Americans are so discouraged by the Obama economy that they have given up on their job searches and are no longer looking for work. “Under President Obama’s economic policies the American Dream is in jeopardy. It’s clear the failed stimulus plan, Obamacare’s government takeover of healthcare, and massive increases in the national debt continue to take a toll on our economy. It will take a change in leadership to put us back on the path to a growing, vibrant economy.” ####
09.04.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, made this statement as the national debt surpassed $16,000,000,000,000. “During Barack Obama’s first term he’s accumulated over $5 trillion in debt and will soon accumulate more debt than all previous presidents combined. And if you think it’s bad now I hate to say it’s only going to get worse. The real Obama debt bombs have yet to be fully realized as we haven’t even begun to receive the bills for the full implementation of Obamacare. “President Obama has had four years to get the budget under control and he’s only made it worse. “I stand ready to do the hard things – entitlement reform, reducing spending, and reforming our tax code – which will turn our economy and debt situation around. Where is your plan to get us out of debt Mr. President?” #####
08.10.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON ­– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will be in Nevada on Monday for “Preserving America’s Strength,” a town hall-style meeting highlighting the devastating impacts of the looming defense cuts now scheduled to take place under budget sequestration in January 2013. The United States Senators representing Nevada, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D) and Senator Dean Heller (R), have also been invited to participate. This week in Columbia, South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, Adjutant General Robert E. Livingston, Jr., Comptroller General Richard Eckstrom, and Graham discussed the devastating impact sequestration will have on our state. (Related: http://bit.ly/MmH1Ln, http://bit.ly/NL581Q, http://grnol.co/MmHbSQ) Graham also led a two-day tour across South Carolina this summer visiting military installations and meeting with local community leaders warning of the severe, negative impact of sequestration. He noted South Carolina is home to some of the finest military installations in the country and our state’s contributions to national defense -- through military bases and training facilities, defense contractors and other civilian support -- are an estimated $13 billion a year. (Related: http://youtu.be/ZLTw884eWLk, http://bit.ly/Ojm577 , http://youtu.be/3VDnwkrmHfg, http://youtu.be/6kEhn8UbQEk, http://bit.ly/OjlQZU, http://bit.ly/Ojmerb, and http://nyti.ms/L6UHVM) Graham will be joined in Nevada by Senators John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire). The three senators, all members of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee, will discuss how the cuts will weaken American national security, put one million jobs at risk, and break faith with the men and women of our Armed Forces and their families. The Department of Defense has already agreed to reduce defense spending by nearly $500 billion over ten years. The additional military spending cuts called for under sequestration would add another $500 billion on top of that figure. Monday’s visit is the latest in the senator’s “Preserving America’s Strength” town hall series, which included events last week in Florida, North Carolina, Virginia, and New Hampshire. “The first priority for the federal government is to provide for our nation’s defense,” said Graham. “As we enter into a time where fiscal austerity has gained greater importance, we must ensure that we continue to provide our military with the resources to meet our national security needs. While we must ask the military to do more with less, we cannot, and should not, ask them to bear a dramatically disproportionate share of the burden. Unfortunately, that is exactly what is happening under sequestration.” Monday, August 13, 2012 WHO: Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) WHAT: Town Hall Meeting highlighting impact of looming defense cuts Media Availability following event WHEN: Monday, August 13, 2012 – 3:00 p.m. PDT Press set-up time – 2:30 p.m. PDT WHERE: College of Southern Nevada – Cheyenne Campus Telecommunications Auditorium 3200 East Cheyenne Avenue North Las Vegas, Nevada 89030
08.02.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Roger Wicker (R-Mississippi) on Wednesday urged a return to regular order when bringing legislation to the floor. In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada), Wicker and Graham point to the resolution of previous logjams as a way to move forward. In part, the letter states: “In 2005, when an aggrieved majority proposed rules changes that would have resulted in limiting the rights of Senators to debate judicial nominations, a bipartisan group of members pulled the Senate back from choosing the so-called nuclear option.” “We believe a similar outcome is within reach at this juncture. In our view, the current conflict is less about specific Senate rules than it is about how those rules are used either to stifle debate or frustrate the will of a clear majority.” Text of the letter follows. August 1, 2012 The Honorable Harry Reid Majority Leader U.S. Senate Washington DC, 20510 Dear Majority Leader Reid: We are writing to express our concern regarding your recent remarks suggesting major changes to the rules of the Senate -- changes that would severely compromise the rights of the minority. We fear that such statements threaten far-reaching consequences for the institution of the Senate and its current and future membership. Particularly troubling is your apparent reversal regarding when and how you might amend Senate rules requiring a two-thirds threshold to invoke cloture. Last year, at the beginning of the 112th Congress, you explicitly rejected what you now propose: making significant alterations to the rules by simple majority. On January 27, 2011, you affirmed, "We've agreed that I won't force a majority vote to fundamentally change the Senate -- that is the so-called ‘constitutional option’ -- and he (Leader McConnell) won't in the future." Mr. Leader, the agreement and course set that day were correct. The Senate tradition of unlimited debate derives from the institution’s constitutional origins as a body of careful deliberation, designed especially to be a protector of minority rights. In explaining the broad utility of the filibuster in 2005, you asserted that the practice is “very much in keeping with the spirit of the government established by the framers of our Constitution, limited government, separation of powers, and checks and balances. The filibuster is a critical tool in keeping the majority in check.” In 2005, when an aggrieved majority proposed rules changes that would have resulted in limiting the rights of Senators to debate judicial nominations, a bipartisan group of members pulled the Senate back from choosing the so-called nuclear option. Accommodations were made to the minority to achieve the necessary consensus, and a procedure was agreed upon that allowed the Senate to process the majority’s priorities while maintaining regular order and the rights of the minority. We believe a similar outcome is within reach at this juncture. In our view, the current conflict is less about specific Senate rules than it is about how those rules are used either to stifle debate or frustrate the will of a clear majority. The rights of the majority do not include the right to restrict the opportunity to offer amendments. Similarly, the Senate tradition of open and extended debate does not provide carte blanche for interminable debate, designed to deny a democratic outcome. We respectfully recommend you employ your knowledge of the institution and its procedures, as well as your unique position of influence as Majority Leader, to achieve an agreement that is respectful of both the prerogatives of the majority and the liberties of the minority. We believe tactics such as filling the amendment tree and liberal use of the filibuster should be utilized sparingly and with appropriate restraint. We suspect most Senators agree. We pledge our support to developing a way forward on these matters in the hope of preserving the traditions and character of this, the greatest of parliamentary bodies. Sincerely yours, Roger F. Wicker Lindsey Graham ###
08.01.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Joe Lieberman (I-Connecticut), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Mark Pryor (D-Arkansas) today sent a letter to the Co-Chairs of the nonpartisan Commission on Presidential Debates requesting that the first of the three officially-sponsored debates, which will address domestic policy, devote specific attention on how the candidates would get our fiscal house in order. “We request that you ask the presidential candidates which of the recommendations of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform they would adopt as part of their plan to reduce the deficit,” wrote the senators. “We hope that such a debate would begin a national discussion that results in a consensus that both of our major national parties can endorse to reduce the deficit and place our nation’s economy on a path to future growth.” Text of the letter is below. Dear Mr. Farenkopf and Mr. McCurry: We write as Democrats, Republicans, and Independents, who all agree on one thing: the nearly $16 trillion national debt, which is growing by almost $2 trillion per year, is one of the great moral issues and threats facing our nation. In light of the gravity of this issue, we believe that the Debate Commission should ask each presidential candidate to devote specific and extensive attention to the question of how the candidates would get our nation’s fiscal house back in order during the first debate dedicated to domestic policy. Specifically, we request that you ask the presidential candidates which of the recommendations of the National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform they would adopt as part of their plan to reduce the deficit. As part of this discussion, we believe that it would be essential to engage the candidates in a detailed discussion of their priorities for tax and entitlement reform. We hope that such a debate would begin a national discussion that results in a consensus that both of our major national parties can endorse to reduce the deficit and place our nation’s economy on a path to future growth. #####
07.26.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a strong supporter of the Second Amendment rights to keep and bear arms, opposes the United Nations’ Arms Trade Treaty. “As a strong defender of the right of Americans to keep and bear arms, I have serious concerns about the dangers posed by the United Nations’ Arms Trade Treaty,” said Graham. “Our country’s sovereignty and the constitutional protection of these individual freedoms must not be infringed.” “The NRA, our four million members and the tens of millions of law-abiding Americans who own firearms will never surrender our right to keep and bear arms to the United Nations,” said Chris Cox, executive director of NRA’s Institute for Legislative Action. “That is why the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty has been met with the full opposition of the NRA. We are grateful for the efforts of these senators to oppose this encroachment of international tyranny.” Graham made his opposition clear and listed out shortcomings with the current language in a letter to President Barack Obama and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The letter, circulated by Senator Jerry Moran (R-Kansas), was signed by 50 United States Senators: Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), Max Baucus (D-MT), John Barrasso (R-WY), Mark Begich (D-AK), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Richard Burr (R-NC), Bob Casey (D-PA), Dan Coats (R-IN), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Susan Collins (R-ME), Bob Corker (R-TN), John Cornyn (R-TX), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Mike Crapo (R-ID), Jim DeMint (R-SC), Mike Enzi (R-WY), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Dean Heller (R-NV), John Hoeven (R-ND), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), James Inhofe (R-OK), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), Mike Johanns (R-NE), Ron Johnson (R-WI), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Mike Lee (R-UT), Joe Manchin (D-WV), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Rand Paul (R-KY), Rob Portman (R-OH), Mark Pryor (D-AR), Jim Risch (R-ID), Pat Roberts (R-KS), Marco Rubio (R-FL), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), Richard Shelby (R-AL), Olympia Snowe (R-ME), Jon Tester (D-MT), John Thune (R-SD), Pat Toomey (R-PA), David Vitter (R-LA), Jim Webb (D-VA), and Roger Wicker (R-MS). The full text of the signed letter is below and the PDF version can be found here. July 26, 2012 President Barack Obama 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Secretary of State Hillary Clinton 2291 C St., NW Washington, D.C. 20520 Dear President Obama and Secretary Clinton: As defenders of the right of Americans to keep and bear arms, we write to express our grave concern about the dangers posed by the United Nations’ Arms Trade Treaty. Our country’s sovereignty and the constitutional protection of these individual freedoms must not be infringed. In October of 2009 at the U.N. General Assembly, your administration voted for the U.S. to participate in negotiating this treaty. We understand that the final treaty text will not be publicly available until it has been agreed to, on a consensus basis, by all the nations at the conference to be held in New York in July. But having reviewed the Chairman’s Draft Paper made available by the United Nations, we are concerned that the Arms Trade Treaty poses dangers to rights protected under the Second Amendment for the following reasons. First, while the Draft Paper nominally applies only to “international arms transfers,” it defines such transfers as including “transport” across national territory. It requires signatories to “monitor and control” arms in transit, and to “enforce domestically the obligations of this treaty” by prohibiting the unauthorized “transfer of arms from any location.” This implies an expansion of federal firearms controls that would be unacceptable on Second Amendment grounds. Second, the Draft Paper requires nations to “maintain records of all imports and shipments of arms that transit their territory,” including the identity of individual end users. This information is to be reported to the U.N.-based Implementation Support Unit. The Draft Paper thus appears to suggest the creation of an U.N.-based firearms registry for all firearms that are either imported into or transit across national territory, which raises both Second Amendment and privacy concerns. Finally, the Draft Paper requires that nations “shall take all appropriate measures necessary to prevent the diversion of imported arms into the illicit market or to unintended end users.” This clause appears to create a presumption in favor of the adoption, at the federal level, of further controls on firearms. We are concerned that, in this regard as well as in others, the treaty will create an open-ended obligation that will in practice be defined by international opinion, and will be used to push the U.S. in the direction of measures that would infringe on both Second Amendment freedoms and the U.S.’s sovereignty more broadly. We acknowledge, with gratitude, that your administration has clearly stated that the treaty must not infringe in any way on the Second Amendment. Notwithstanding, we must state with clarity what this entails. First, the treaty should explicitly recognize the legitimacy of hunting, sport shooting, and other lawful activities – including the collection and display by individuals and museums of military antiques – related to the private ownership of firearms, and related materials. Second, the treaty should not include the manufacturing, assembly, possession, transfer, or purchase of small arms, light weapons, ammunition, or related materials that are defined under domestic law by national authority as legal for private ownership, nor should it contain any open-ended obligations that could imply any need to impose controls that would have any domestic effect on any or all of these items. Third, the Draft Paper is based in part on recognizing the inherent right of all states to individual or collective self-defense. We certainly agree that this right is inherent, at least, in all democratic and law-abiding states. But we also believe that the right of personal self-defense is a human right that is inherent in the individual. U.N. organizations, by contrast, have in the past argued that gun control is mandated by international human rights law, and that the right of self-defense does not exist. The treaty should clearly state that any assertion of the inherent right of all states to individual or collective self-defense cannot prejudice the inherent human right of personal self-defense. As the treaty process continues, we strongly encourage your administration not only to uphold our country’s constitutional protections of civilian firearms ownership, but to ensure – if necessary, by breaking consensus at the July conference – that the treaty will explicitly recognize the legitimacy of lawful activities associated with firearms, including but not limited to the right of self-defense. As members of the United States Senate, we will oppose the ratification of any Arms Trade Treaty that falls short of this standard. We appreciate your consideration on this issue and look forward to your response. #####
07.26.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON ­– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will participate in “Preserving America’s Strength,” a series of town hall-style meetings in Florida, North Carolina, Virginia and New Hampshire highlighting the devastating impacts of the looming defense cuts now scheduled to take place under budget sequestration next year. Graham will be joined on the tour by Senators John McCain (R-Arizona) and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire). The three senators, all members of the U.S. Senate Armed Services Committee, will discuss how the cuts will weaken American national security, put one million jobs at risk, and break faith with the men and women of our Armed Forces and their families. The Department of Defense has already agreed to reduce defense spending by nearly $500 billion over ten years. The additional military spending cuts called for under sequestration would add another $500 billion on top of that figure. Earlier this summer, Graham led a two-day tour across South Carolina visiting military installations and meeting with local community leaders warning of the severe, negative impact of sequestration. He noted South Carolina is home to some of the finest military installations in the country and our states’ contributions to national defense -- through military bases and training facilities, defense contractors and other civilian support -- are an estimated $13 billion a year. (Related: http://youtu.be/ZLTw884eWLk, http://bit.ly/Ojm577 , http://youtu.be/3VDnwkrmHfg, http://youtu.be/6kEhn8UbQEk, http://bit.ly/OjlQZU, http://bit.ly/Ojmerb, and http://nyti.ms/L6UHVM) “The first priority for the federal government is to provide for our nation’s defense,” said Graham. “As we enter into a time where fiscal austerity has gained greater importance, we must ensure that we continue to provide our military with the resources to meet our national security needs. While we must ask the military to do more with less, we cannot, and should not, ask them to bear a dramatically disproportionate share of the burden. Unfortunately, that is exactly what is happening under sequestration.” ##### Monday, July 30, 2012 TAMPA, FLORIDA WHO: Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) WHAT: Town Hall Meeting highlighting impact of looming defense cuts Media Availability following event WHEN: Monday, July 30, 2012, 9:00 a.m. ET Press set-up time, 8:30 a.m. ET WHERE: Center for Advanced Medical Learning and Simulation 124 South Franklin Street Tampa, FL 33602 FAYETTEVILLE, NORTH CAROLINA WHO: Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) WHAT: Town Hall Meeting highlighting impact of looming defense cuts Media Availability following event WHEN: Monday, July 30, 2012, 1:30 p.m. ET Press set-up time, 1:00 p.m. ET WHERE: Fayetteville Technical Community College 2201 Hull Road Fayetteville, NC 28303 NORFOLK, VIRGINA WHO: Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) WHAT: Town Hall Meeting highlighting impact of looming defense cuts Media Availability following event WHEN: Monday, July 30, 2012, 5:00 p.m. ET Press set-up time, 4:30 p.m. ET WHERE: Half Moone Cruise Terminal 1 Waterside Drive Norfolk, VA 23510 Tuesday, July 31, 2012 MERRIMACK, NEW HAMPSHIRE WHO: Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) WHAT: Employee Town Hall Meeting highlighting impact of looming defense cuts Media Availability following event WHEN: Tuesday, July 31, 2012, 9:30 a.m. ET Press set-up time, 9:00 a.m. ET WHERE: BAE Systems’ Worrell/Weeks Aircrew Protection Center 130 Daniel Webster Highway North Merrimack, NH 03054 ##### #####
07.19.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the Port of Charleston deepening project has been declared a nationally and regionally significant infrastructure project. This designation will help expedite the modernization process at Charleston and six other ports across the country. “This is very good news and a recognition the rest of the country now understands what we’ve known all along -- Charleston Harbor deepening is a critical project for our state, region, and national economy. It is a vital economic engine which must be deepened so it can handle 24/7 the new, larger post-Panamax ships coming online. “Two years ago we were fighting hard for a $150,000 appropriation to keep the Charleston Port study alive and we were seemingly dead in the water. Turning it around has truly been a South Carolina team effort. Everyone has played a role from the local, state and federal level and shows what can happen when you work together. “I want to thank Governor Haley for her work in helping push Charleston’s case forward and creating a new, national vision for ports. She continually brought this issue up in her meetings with President Obama and Vice President Biden. She helped ensure this critical project was on their radar. “I also want to thank Charleston Mayor Joe Riley who has taken the time and effort to personally make the case to President Obama. Congressman Clyburn has used his influence to push this project forward and all the members of our congressional delegation - Tim Scott, Joe Wilson, Jeff Duncan, Trey Gowdy, and Mick Mulvaney - have stressed to our congressional leaders the importance of the Charleston port. “I also want to thank my Senate colleague Jim DeMint. In two years we have gone from a more parochial view of port deepening, where each state looked after their own interests, to one in which we are moving toward a more national vision for ports. In a post-earmarking environment, we have been able to prove to the Corps of Engineers, White House, and everyone with any stake in the matter, that Charleston Harbor deepening is a worthy project critical to our economy. “Today’s news is a strong step in the right direction and I appreciate the Obama Administration for making this happen but there remains more work to be done. I have been and will continue working with my congressional colleagues to help create a merit-based, national vision to deal with port expansion and modernization. There is beginning to emerge a roadmap which will be beneficial to Charleston and the nation as a whole. And let it be known the catalyst for the whole debate was Charleston Harbor deepening.” #####
07.18.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today released the following statement on the situation in Syria: “It is imperative in light of the most recent wave of violence in Syria that the United States begin to lead the international community to resolve the conflict. We need to form a coalition to help arm the rebels, as well as create no-fly and no-drive zones to stop the slaughter by the Assad regime. I cannot say with certainty what will follow Assad but I can say with certainty that Assad must go, sooner rather than later. “If America is seen as being helpful in ending the slaughter of the Syrian people, it will allow us to have a stronger, future relationship with Assad’s eventual successor. Replacing Assad in Syria is critical to regional stability, a major blow to the Iranian regime and will bolster our national security interests. “The Obama Administration, and the world at large, is fiddling while Syria burns. I hope we don’t end up regretting our inaction.” #####
07.13.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the letter sent by Republican leaders in the House and Senate to President Obama. The Republicans encouraged President Obama to work with them to prevent devastating sequestration cuts which are scheduled to go into effect in 2013. "I am very supportive of and encouraged by Republican leaders in the House and Senate urging President Obama to deal with sequestration before the end of the fiscal year. I strongly encourage President Obama to meet this challenge. "We have already committed to reducing defense spending by nearly $500 billion over ten years. The additional military spending cuts called for under sequestration would add another $600 billion on top of that figure. The net effect of this $1.1 trillion defense cut, in the words of Secretary of Defense Panetta, would destroy the finest military we've ever had. "I will continue to work my colleagues to find a bipartisan solution to avoid the effects of sequestration for the upcoming fiscal year. We're working to find the necessary $109 billion to replace sequestration for defense and non-defense spending. "I believe the best way forward is to follow the Simpson-Bowles roadmap where some of the $109 billion would be offset by increased fees and eliminating tax earmarks that only benefit the few at the expense of the many. However, the vast majority of the reductions would come from reducing the size of government. Tax rate increases are not necessary to solve this problem and will do damage to our economy. "It remains imperative we find a bipartisan solution to this problem before the end of the fiscal year." ##### Text of the GOP Letter July 13, 2012 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: On June 30 of this year, National Journal reported that your chief of staff, director of legislative affairs, and your senior advisor (who previously served as your campaign manager) recommended to the Senate Democratic leadership that they propose a six month delay in the sequester scheduled under current law to occur on January 2nd of next year. If accurate, we are troubled that rather than engaging Congress in a constructive effort to identify and enact responsible savings to replace the across-the-board sequester, your senior staff appears to be suggesting a course of action that could actually be more harmful to our national security and domestic priorities. The cuts to the non-defense sector will also be significant. The Bipartisan Policy Center recently found that many domestic programs will face across-the-board reductions in FY 2013 of close to 15 percent. Last November Defense Secretary Panetta discussed the impact of the sequester on our Armed Forces stating that, "[t]he impacts of these cuts would be devastating for the Department." More colorfully and perhaps more accurately, last September Secretary Panetta stated that if sequestration were allowed to occur, "We'd be shooting ourselves in the head." Your own budget acknowledges these cuts would be "devastating." As you are undoubtedly aware a delay would not reduce the $110 billion cut that is required under sequestration. In fact, such a delay would actually exacerbate the cut's impact since agencies would be forced to absorb the same cut in the three remaining months of the fiscal year rather than over nine months. Other than pushing sequestration farther away from this November's election it is difficult to understand what benefit would be derived from a six month delay. Even though the Administration has yet to put forward a plan to address this issue, the House of Representatives took responsible action in May by passing legislation that would replace the 2013 sequester with other common-sense spending reductions and reforms. A group of Senate Republicans has introduced a bill to replace the 2013 sequester with savings attributed to extending the current federal pay freeze for 18 months and reducing the federal workforce through attrition. Your Administration has not commented on the Senate bill and issued a statement saying that your senior advisors would recommend that you veto the House proposal, citing in part your desire for economically damaging tax increases. The sequester will have a significant impact on our national security and other domestic programs - such as medical research and special education - and yet the White House is now holding our troops and other important programs hostage in order to foist tax increases on small businesses, which have been routinely rejected by the House and Senate on a bipartisan basis. Instead of ignoring the need to address this critical issue, we would respectfully request that you and your senior staff engage constructively with both parties to find common ground. To be clear, we stand ready to work with you to identify and enact common-sense savings necessary to replace the January 2013 sequester. Rather than proposing to simply put more space between this problem and the election or offering tax increase proposals that face bipartisan Congressional opposition, we hope you instead work with us to find a bipartisan solution before the end of the fiscal year. Sincerely, Eric Cantor John Boehner Mitch McConnell Jon Kyl
07.13.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (I-CT) today released the following joint statement regarding the situation in Syria: “Today's extremely disturbing report in the Wall Street Journal that the Assad regime may be moving chemical weapons could have profound consequences for U.S. policy toward Syria. We have every reason to expect the worst of Assad and his forces, who are killing more people in Syria now than at any time in the conflict. First and foremost it is essential to determine whether this report is accurate, and if Assad is in fact moving chemical weapons, where and why they are being moved. We urge the Administration to brief Congress on what is known as soon as possible. “If Assad is transferring chemical weapons from secure sites to the battlefield, it significantly raises the risks that they will be used or that control over these weapons could be compromised. These are unacceptable risks for the United States and the entire international community, and they would threaten our vital national security interests. “If accurate, this would mean that the Assad regime cannot be trusted to exercise responsible stewardship over its weapons of mass destruction, and that allowing them to remain in Assad's hands presents a clear threat, not only to civilians in Syria but to international peace and security. If that is the case, the Administration should convene an urgent session of the UN Security Council to consider a Chapter 7 resolution demanding that Assad relinquish his weapons of mass destruction to responsible international control – and authorizing the use of all necessary means to enforce this demand. If Russia and China stand in the way, the United States must rally our friends and allies to act. “Ultimately, this latest report adds new urgency to the need to end the rule of Assad and his top lieutenants. This report on chemical weapons, combined with another report on a mass slaughter in Tremseh, paints a picture of Syria continuing to spiral out of control. “The longer this conflict grinds on, the worse it gets for the people of Syria and increasingly for the entire international community. According to some estimates, as many as 17,000 lives have been lost. Assad has clearly shown that he will stop at nothing to crush the Syrian opposition. Does anyone doubt this regime has the capacity to turn some of the world’s worst weapons on its own people? After every mass atrocity that is committed in the world, good people pledge ‘never again’ – that next time we will be ready, and we will have the resolve to act to prevent mass atrocities that we see gathering. Now is that time in Syria, and we urge the Administration to respond accordingly." ####
07.03.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on the agreement between the United States and Pakistan to reopen supply lines critical to coalition forces in Afghanistan. Graham said: “Today’s announcement by Secretary Clinton that Pakistan has agreed to reopen supply lines flowing into Afghanistan is welcome news and will greatly assist our war efforts. I am very pleased we were able to resolve this situation and am hopeful we can now build stronger relationships with Pakistan; particularly in the area of counterterrorism operations. These supply lines are essential to supporting our troops in Afghanistan and I believe the terms and conditions negotiated by Secretary Clinton’s team are acceptable to American interests throughout the region. “This agreement is a good step in the right direction, but more has to be done between the United States and Pakistan in the area of counterterrorism. The drone attacks against terrorist enclaves on the Pakistan side of the border have seriously damaged terrorist networks seeking refuge in the tribal areas and such attacks must continue. If the Pakistani military intelligence services would engage in aggressive efforts to combat terrorism in coordination with coalition forces, it would tremendously enhance our successes in Afghanistan, provide stability to the Pakistani government, and eventually a better life for people on both sides of the border.” #####
06.29.2012	Alice James (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in memory of three members of the South Carolina National Guard who were killed by a suicide bomber in Afghanistan and will be laid to rest this weekend. "This weekend South Carolina will lay to rest three of her finest, Lt. Ryan Davis Rawl of Lexington, Sgt. 1st Class Brad Thomas of Easley, and Sgt. John "J.D." David Meador, II of Columbia. They were brave young men, with loving families, who volunteered to fight for their country. "Having been to Iraq and Afghanistan dozens of times, I always leave deeply impressed by the professionalism, commitment and sacrifice of those who serve our nation in uniform. They are committed to confronting radical Islam over there, far from home, so they can't hurt us here. These three young men died in service of their country serving a cause greater than themselves. "The sacrifices they and their loved ones have made in defense of our nation are beyond comprehension. May God grant them eternal rest and peace. And bless their families with healing and understanding." #### Audio/Video of Graham Speaking on the Senate Floor: http://youtu.be/DUIVn8GHwjo
06.28.2012	Alice James (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Supreme Court decision ruling that the individual mandate is a ‘Tax.' "To our Democratic colleagues, stand by your tax increase or stand with us to Repeal and Replace Obamacare. "During the entire congressional debate over Obamcare, Democrats vehemently denied this was a tax on the American people. The Obama Administration also denied it was a tax. However, when the case went to Court, they argued, for constitutional purposes, it was a tax. "I have always believed the individual mandate would not be upheld under the Commerce Clause because you cannot compel someone to enter into commerce. However, I have always been afraid the broad power to tax could be used by the Court to justify Obamacare. "The problem for the American people is this is a massive tax increase at a time they can least afford it and Obamacare will jeopardize the quality and accessibility of health care. "Now Congress has a chance to Repeal and Replace Obamacare, one of the largest tax increases on the American people, with common-sense health care reform we can afford. I am glad I voted against one of the largest tax increases on the American people in modern history for the purpose of creating government-controlled health care. "The question for Congress is -- Did you intend to tax the American people by hundreds of billions of dollars to create a government-controlled health care system or not? "I am urging the Republican leadership to immediately insist on debating whether or not Obamacare is in fact a tax in the eyes of the politicians who proposed the legislation. If it was never meant to be a tax, they should immediately Repeal and Replace this bill." #####
06.26.2012	Alice James (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - Citing an ‘avalanche' of' national security leaks originating out of the Executive Branch 31 senators have written to Attorney General Eric Holder requesting he immediately appoint a special counsel, free from the appearance of a politics or undue influence, to investigate the matter. "The numerous national security leaks reportedly originating out of the Executive Branch in recent months have been stunning," wrote the senators. "If true, they reveal details of some of our Nation's most highly classified and sensitive military and intelligence matters, thereby risking our national security, as well as the lives of American citizens and our allies. If there were ever a case requiring an outside special counsel with bipartisan acceptance and widespread public trust, this is it." The letter was circulated by Senator Lindsey Graham (SC) and signed by Senators Lamar Alexander (TN), Kelly Ayotte (NH), John Barrasso (WY), Roy Blunt (MO), John Boozman (AR), Richard Burr (NC), Saxby Chambliss (GA), Susan Collins (ME), John Cornyn (TX), Mike Crapo (ID), Jim DeMint (SC), Mike Enzi (WY), Charles Grassley (IA), John Hoeven (ND), Mike Johanns (NE), Mark Kirk (IL), Mitch McConnell (KY), John McCain (AZ), Jerry Moran (KS), Lisa Murkowski (AK), Rand Paul (KY), Rob Portman (OH), James Risch (ID), Pat Roberts (KS), Marco Rubio (FL), Jeff Sessions (AL), John Thune (SD), Pat Toomey (PA), David Vitter (LA), and Roger Wicker (MS). ##### TEXT OF THE LETTER: The Honorable Eric Holder Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Attorney General Holder: The numerous national security leaks reportedly originating out of the Executive Branch in recent months have been stunning. If true, they reveal details of some of our Nation's most highly classified and sensitive military and intelligence matters, thereby risking our national security, as well as the lives of American citizens and our allies. If there were ever a case requiring an outside special counsel with bipartisan acceptance and widespread public trust, this is it. Press reports indicate that there could be many sources to the leaks within the Administration. In fact, in Jo Becker and Scott Shane's New York Times story, "Secret ‘Kill List' Proves a Test of Obama's Principles and Will" the reporters state they interviewed, "three dozen of [Obama's] current and former advisers." Tom Ricks' recent New York Times review of David Sanger's Confront and Conceal mentions that "Mr. Sanger clearly has enjoyed great access to senior White House officials, most notably to Thomas Donilon, the national security adviser. Mr. Donilon, in effect, is the hero of the book, as well as the commenter of record on events." You have an important role as a member of the President's national security team, and no Administration should be expected to investigate itself impartially on such a grave and sensitive matter in the midst of an election. Therefore, your recent announcement that two U.S. Attorneys would lead criminal investigations into the instances of unauthorized disclosures of classified information does not ensure a full and thorough investigation free of influence. The U.S. Attorneys are under your personal supervision. An outside special counsel, with the appropriate independence and authority, would ensure that the investigation remains untainted by even the appearance of a politics or undue influence. Our request for a special counsel is in keeping with the precedent of asking for a neutral investigation when there is either a possible conflict of interest or extraordinary circumstances. In 2005, when President Obama was a sitting senator, he requested a special counsel to investigate the Jack Abramoff scandal, saying "FBI officials have said the Abramoff investigation ‘involves systemic corruption within the highest levels of government.' Such an assertion indicates extraordinary circumstances and it is in the public interest that you act under your existing statutory authority to appoint a special counsel." In fact, in the Valerie Plame matter, then-Senator Obama went beyond the call for a special counsel, seeking a Congressional investigation, arguing in a letter: "[t]he United States Congress has a constitutional responsibility to provide oversight of the executive branch, whether a law has been broken or not. It is time for Congress to fulfill that constitutional responsibility in this matter by initiating a thorough investigation. We recognize that a criminal investigation is underway and that a special prosecutor continues to present testimony before a grand jury. These actions in no way preclude Congress responsibility to provide oversight. We urge you to exercise your authority as Congressional leaders by requesting the appropriate committees to begin oversight hearings and an investigation immediately." In 2007, then-Senator Biden called for a special counsel to investigate the destruction of the CIA enhanced interrogation tapes, stating that the "easiest, straightest thing to do is to take it out of the political realm, appoint a special prosecutor and let them decide, and . . . call it where it is. Is there a criminal violation? If there is, proceed. If not, don't." In 2003, then-Senator Biden joined a letter calling for an outside special counsel in the Valerie Plame investigation, concluding that, "Public confidence in the integrity of this investigation would be substantially bolstered by the appointment of a special counsel." Then-Senator Biden maintained that even if that case were being handled by professional career prosecutors, the integrity of the inquiry might be called into question if individuals with a vested interest in protecting the White House were still involved in any matter related to the investigation. If the bar for an outside special counsel were met in the cases of Valerie Plame and Jack Abramoff, it is far exceeded here. We are not talking about a single, isolated instance of a leak; rather, we are looking at "an avalanche of leaks" on national security matters. On a matter of this seriousness, there is clear precedent to appoint an outside special counsel when there is the potential for a conflict of interest, the specter of political influence, or other extraordinary circumstances. As this is clearly the case here, we request that you appoint an outside special counsel immediately. #####
06.22.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH), all members of the Senate Armed Services Committee, released the following statement today regarding the impending across-the-board defense sequestration cuts that, unless Congress and the Administration act, will begin on January 2, 2013: “We commend the National Association of Manufacturers on releasing its new report. Given Secretary Panetta’s repeated warnings and the grave threat sequestration poses to our troops and our national security, we cannot wait until after the election to stop these cuts. NAM’s report is a wakeup call to Congress and the Administration that we must act now, or we risk dangerously undermining our national security and causing the loss of more than one million good American jobs.” The new National Association of Manufacturers (NAM) report finds that the budget caps and sequestration cuts beginning on January 2, 2013, will result in the following: More than 1 million private sector jobs, including 130,000 manufacturing jobs, will be lost in 2014; GDP will be almost 1 percent lower by 2014; Total job losses will increase unemployment by 0.7 percent. NAM’s report echoes similar findings in recent studies by the Aerospace Industries Association, the Bipartisan Policy Center, and the Center for Security Policy. On Thursday, at the National Press Club, Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta said, “One [of] my greatest concerns as secretary is the dysfunction that we see in Washington.” Referring to the impending defense sequestration cuts and the inability of the Administration and Congress thus far to find a solution, Secretary Panetta said, “It threatens our security and it raises questions about the capacity of our democracy to respond to crisis.” Secretary Panetta said, “The Department of Defense is facing a crisis … What I fear -- and I think this is a real fear -- is that both Republicans and Democrats alike will simply kick the can down the road.” ####
06.15.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) continued his efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare, yesterday in the Senate Appropriations Committee. Graham’s amendment prohibited the IRS from using funds to implement the individual mandate, a key provision in Obamacare. The Graham Amendment was defeated by a vote of 14 to 16. “Obamacare is a financial disaster for our nation. It raises costs, lowers the quality of care, and will result in health care rationing. Whether it’s an outright repeal, a state-based ‘opt-out’, delaying implementation of its major provisions, or this amendment to prohibit funding, I will continue to use every tool in the toolbox to repeal and replace Obamacare.” The Supreme Court is expected to rule on the constitutionality of Obamacare later this month. #####
06.14.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham’s (R-South Carolina) three amendments to protect American businesses from the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) job-killing tactics failed today in the Senate Appropriations Committee. “The NLRB is the Grim Reaper of job creation and the most out-of-control agency in Washington,” said Graham. The Graham Amendments include: NLRB Micro-Union (Failed 15-15): The NLRB decision in Specialty Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center of Mobile 357 allows unions to gerrymander the size of a bargaining unit. Even if a majority of workers opposed the formation of a union, the NLRB decision allows unions to be formed by allowing the workforce to be subdivided into increasingly smaller groups. Micro-unions have made managing the workforce increasingly more difficult and the Graham Amendment would prohibit the NLRB from using its funds to enforce this rule. “The NLRB rule allowing micro-unions is a radical change from past practices and will be devastating to American job creation,” said Graham. “The private sector is not doing fine and if the micro-union concept spreads it will be even more difficult to create jobs. We may have lost today in committee, but I think we will win on this amendment when the full Senate votes.” NLRB Ambush Election (Failed 13-17): This NLRB decision shortens the timeframe for a union election to as little as ten days. Over 95 percent of all union elections occur within 56 days and the current median is 38 days. By rushing an election, the NLRB is deliberately stacking the deck against employers and denying them time to adequately defend themselves against union propaganda. The Graham Amendment would prohibit the NLRB from using funds on ambush elections. NLRB Secret Ballot (Failed 14-16): In 2011, South Carolina was one of four states the NLRB threatened to sue after the state passed a law prohibiting unions from using the card-check process to unionize. Card-check is ripe for abuse and intimidation of employees who may oppose unionization and would vote against it in a secret ballot election. This amendment would ensure the NLRB cannot block secret ballot elections. The House of Representatives has already passed the language in the Graham Amendment to protect secret ballot voting. “The NLRB seems hell-bent on interjecting themselves into private sector business decisions for purely political reasons,” said Graham. “Last year, the NLRB attempted to intervene in a legitimate business decision by Boeing to expand aircraft manufacturing into South Carolina. Their decision did great damage to job creation efforts and they seem intent on continuing this destructive behavior. On issue after issue the NLRB is destroying jobs and making the United States uncompetitive in the international marketplace.” #####
06.13.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) announced plans to offer amendments tomorrow in the Senate Appropriations Committee to protect American businesses from the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) job-killing tactics. “The NLRB is the Grim Reaper of job creation,” said Graham. “They seem hell-bent on interjecting themselves into private sector business decisions for purely political reasons. Last year, the NLRB attempted to intervene in a legitimate business decision by Boeing to expand aircraft manufacturing into South Carolina. Their decision did great damage to job creation efforts and they seem intent on continuing this destructive behavior. On issue after issue the NLRB is destroying jobs and making the United States uncompetitive in the international marketplace.” The Graham Amendments include: NLRB Micro-Union: The NLRB decision in Specialty Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center of Mobile 357 allows unions to gerrymander the size of a bargaining unit. Even if a majority of workers opposed the formation of a union, the NLRB decision allows unions to be formed by allowing the workforce to be subdivided into increasingly smaller groups. Micro-unions have made managing the workforce increasingly more difficult and the Graham Amendment prohibits the NLRB from using its funds to enforce this rule. NLRB Ambush Election: This NLRB decision shortens the timeframe for a union election to as little as ten days. Over 95 percent of all union elections occur within 56 days and the current median is 38 days. By rushing an election, the NLRB is deliberately stacking the deck against employers and denying them time to adequately defend themselves against union propaganda. The Graham Amendment prohibits the NLRB from using funds on ambush elections. NLRB Secret Ballot: In 2011, South Carolina was one of four states the NLRB threatened to sue after the state passed a law prohibiting unions from using the card-check process to unionize. Card-check is ripe for abuse and intimidation of employees who may oppose unionization and would vote against it in a secret ballot election. This amendment ensures the NLRB cannot block secret ballot elections. The House of Representatives has already passed the language in the Graham Amendment to protect secret ballot voting. “The unprecedented actions taken by the NLRB move the agency into areas it’s never gone before. My amendments aim to protect employers and employees from the counterproductive actions taken by the NLRB and I hope they will be adopted by the Senate Appropriations Committee tomorrow.” #####
06.11.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA – South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham, and Third District Congressman Jeff Duncan today all spoke out in support of legislation which will open the South Carolina coast to oil and gas drilling. “South Carolina is leading the way toward energy independence,” said Graham, who is introducing the legislation in the United States Senate. “By authorizing offshore leasing for oil and gas exploration, South Carolina will lead a long, overdue effort to open up American-owned energy reserves. We want to break the dependence on imports from unstable areas like the Middle East and dangerous regimes like Venezuela’s Hugo Chavez. The more closer-to-home energy we utilize, the less we must rely on them. Additionally, this legislation will help reduce our national debt and the state of South Carolina will receive 37.5 percent of revenues generated from leasing.” “America desperately needs an all-the-above energy plan,” said Duncan. “We all support a comprehensive approach to energy, but also understand that South Carolina shouldn’t wait on other states to be able to create jobs here at home. I commend Senator Graham for his work on the South Carolina Offshore Drilling Act and plan to introduce a version of this legislation in the U.S. House. Utilizing our abundant natural resources is a crucial step in ending our dependence on Middle Eastern oil, and creating thousands of jobs right here in South Carolina. This legislation will help our state continue to lead the nation in energy innovation." “Two months ago, I introduced the EXPAND Act, which in addition to expanding nuclear power and other sources of energy, includes opening the entire Outer Continental Shelf for energy leases and permits. I specifically included the Southern Atlantic OCS to ensure that South Carolina gained access to its natural resources. We are committed to helping South Carolina lead the way towards energy independence for the United States, and create thousands of new energy jobs,” Duncan said. Under the South Carolina Offshore Drilling Act: 0 to 10 miles off the South Carolina coast would be designated a Buffer Zone and no drilling will be allowed. 10-50 miles off the South Carolina coast would be designated an Opt-In Zone. The state, with the approval of the Governor and State Legislature, could make these areas available for leasing. The Governor and State Legislature will decide the exact offshore location where the Opt-In Zone begins (10 miles off the coast, 12 miles, 15 miles, etc.) before leases are issued. 50-100 miles off the South Carolina coast will be declared Open and available for leasing. The South Carolina Offshore Drilling Act also calls for revenue sharing from the lease sales. Under the legislation, 50 percent of the revenues will be returned to the federal government for deficit reduction, 37.5 percent will go to the State of South Carolina, and 12.5 percent will be directed to the Land and Water Conservation Fund. The funding formula is consistent with current federal law governing revenue sharing from offshore drilling leases. ##### Background on South Carolina Offshore Drilling Act Drilling Areas 0 to 10 miles off the South Carolina coast would be designated a Buffer Zone with no drilling allowed. 10-50 miles off the South Carolina coast would be designated an Opt-In Zone. The state, with the approval of the Governor and State Legislature, could make these areas available for leasing. The Governor and State Legislature would decide the exact offshore location where the Opt-In Zone begins (10 miles off the coast, 12 miles, 15 miles, etc.) before leases are issued. 50-100 miles off the South Carolina coast will be declared Open and available for leasing. Revenue Sharing 50 percent to federal deficit reduction 37.5 percent to the State of South Carolina 20 percent of which is dedicated to counties on the coast. 12.5 percent to the Land and Water Conservation Fund Process The State of South Carolina, upon approving the lease, would then submit a petition to the Secretary of Interior requesting the area be added to any five-year plan. Should the Secretary fail to approve the petition within 90 days of receipt, the petition shall be considered approved.
06.09.2012	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) made this statement on news Attorney General Eric Holder has appointed two U.S. Attorneys to investigate the leaking of classified information. Graham and McCain said: "There has been appropriate, bipartisan criticism regarding the devastating and orchestrated leaks of classified information involving some of our most sensitive counter-terrorism operations. These breaches of national security have compromised operations, strained relationships with allies, and put lives at risk. It is imperative that an independent investigation be conducted where the results could be accepted with a high degree of confidence and without a hint of political considerations. We are confident the two U.S. Attorneys hand-picked by Attorney General Holder are fine men. However, if there was ever a situation where we needed an outside special counsel that would enjoy bipartisan acceptance and widespread public trust, it is now. "There are many capable attorneys who have earned respect from the public and both parties. We strongly believe a special counsel should be appointed outside Justice Department control and influence. Someone in the mold of a Bob Bennett who is extremely competent and enjoys bipartisan respect. "This investigation involves some of the most serious breaches of national security in recent memory and any investigation must be done in a manner free and clear of political considerations. The recent decision of the Attorney General falls far short of what is needed and is not an adequate substitute for an outside special counsel." ####
05.24.2012	Tate Zeigler or Alice James (202) 224-5972 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement regarding a motion filed by defense attorneys for KSM seeking dismissal of charges based on Graham’s objections to using civilian courts for KSM and other 9/11 co-conspirators: “I have been informed that the defense counsel representing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other 9/11 co-conspirators filed a motion to dismiss all charges based on unlawful influence by myself, President Bush, President Obama, Vice President Biden, and others. “I strongly believe in the right to counsel, and fully understand the defense attorneys representing those accused of the 9/11 attacks have to advocate vigorously for the interest of their clients. “As a United States Senator, I have to advocate for the best policies for the country as a whole. I support an “all of the above” approach regarding the War on Terror, where Article Three civilian courts as well as military tribunals are used to resolve terrorism cases. “However, I strongly believe the attacks of 9/11 were not a common crime, but an act of war. And in certain situations, military commissions and the law of war should apply. That is why I have consistently and vigorously advocated for the use of military commissions in situations involving top al-Qaeda leadership. “I have done so consistent with the duties of a United States Senator, no more or no less." #####
05.22.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona), and Joe Lieberman (I-Connecticut) today released the following statement on the news that the U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan, Ryan C. Crocker, will step down this summer: “The recent announcement by Ambassador Ryan Crocker that he will be departing his post in Kabul is a great loss to the United States and Afghanistan, but we fully understand his decision. We are grateful beyond words to Ryan for his decision to come out of retirement at the President’s request to serve our country one last time in one of the most challenging jobs in the world. When the history of the past decade is written, Ryan Crocker will rightly be recognized as one of the genuine American heroes of this era. We have never met a finer, more capable, or more dedicated diplomat than Ryan Crocker. “Ambassador Crocker arrived in Afghanistan at a critical moment in the relations between our two countries. Thanks to his efforts, we believe that the Afghan-U.S. relationship is now on a much better path. In the last year, Ambassador Crocker and General Allen, working with our Afghan and NATO partners, successfully negotiated a Strategic Partnership Agreement. If properly implemented, this Agreement could be the ultimate guarantee that Al-Qaeda and the Taliban will never again control Afghanistan. For this, and for so much else in his long and distinguished career, Ryan Crocker deserves the respect, gratitude, and admiration of all Americans. We will miss him greatly, and look forward to welcoming him back home to the United States.” #####
05.21.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Senate passage of H.R. 1905, the Iran Threat Reduction Act of 2011. The bill passed the Senate Monday evening by voice vote. Graham said: “When the Senate failed to pass the sanctions bill last week, I was concerned that the legislation was sending a mixed message to Iran. However, I am very pleased we were able to strengthen the language in the bill which now sends an unequivocal message to leaders in Iran. The bill clearly indicates that all options are on the table when it comes to stopping Iran from obtaining a nuclear capability. As President Obama said in his 2012 State of the Union address, ‘Let there be no doubt: America is determined to prevent Iran from getting a nuclear weapon, and I will take no options off the table to achieve that goal.’ “The sanctions resolution provides strong additional tools to the President to hit the Iranian regime. However, one of the missing components of the legislation was a declaration that all options are on the table including military force. “The outcome of a nuclear capable Iran will throw the world into darkness and must be avoided at all costs. I do not wish for another conflict anywhere in the world, but I am adamant that a nuclear-capable Iran will create a nuclear arms race in the Middle East. “I am very dubious that sanctions will result in changing Iranian behavior, but hope always springs eternal. With this belief in mind, it will be up to the Iranian regime at the end of the day to determine how this issue is resolved. If there is to be war with Iran this summer or fall, it will be because of their actions and their choosing.” #####
05.17.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona), Jon Kyl (R-Arizona), and Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) today released the following statement regarding an amendment, to be voted on tomorrow, offered by Representative Adam Smith, Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee, to H.R. 4310, the House version of the Fiscal Year 2013 National Defense Authorization Act: “We strongly oppose Representative Smith’s amendment, which would tie the hands of this president and his successors by forcing suspected terrorists captured in the United States to be placed into the federal civilian criminal justice system. The Smith amendment would also preclude any form of military custody for these suspected terrorist detainees, overturning the long months of hard work that led to last year’s agreement on detainees signed into law by President Obama as part of the Fiscal Year 2012 defense authorization bill. No foreign terrorist who comes to the United States to attack us should ever hear the words ‘you have the right to remain silent.’ We reject any attempts to reward foreign terrorists clever enough to get inside our borders with the same legal rights and protections as American citizens – the very people these terrorists seek to kill and injure.” Section 1021 of the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act provides the President with maximum flexibility to determine how to deal with detainees through either detention without trial under the law of war, trial by military commission, transfer to another country, or trial by another court of jurisdiction. The law specifically grants the President the authority to make this determination – authority Representative Smith’s amendment would take away. Moreover, Section 1022 of the Act creates a presumption of military custody for these detainees, who are neither U.S. citizens nor lawful permanent residents. ####
05.17.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the Senate failed to come to agreement on a tough Iran sanctions bill. “I am very disappointed we have been unable to get bipartisan agreement to move forward on the Iran sanctions bill. The Senate Banking Committee reported an excellent bill to the Senate. However, the manager’s amendment, which was added to the legislation this morning, contains language that if allowed to remain sends a mixed message to Iran. It would create confusion to what has been clear American policy. “The manager’s amendment currently states the bill is not a declaration of war or authorization of the use of force. Let’s be clear, I do not think this bill is or should be construed as an authorization of the use of force. But it must be clearly stated, as President Obama has done in the past, that our nation has options at our disposal which go beyond sanctions. “Limiting ourselves to just sanctions will weaken our own national security. All we need to do to be able to move forward on this legislation is to add a few lines making clear that while the United States continues to strengthen sanctions on the Iranian regime we always reserve the right to use military force. Or as President Obama has consistently stated when it comes to the Iranian nuclear program, ‘All options are on the table.’ “I don’t believe sanctions on Iran have worked but I am willing to allow more time. But as President Obama recently said ‘time is running out.’ I have serious doubts that the threat of sanctions alone will ever truly change Iranian behavior. I hope they do, but I think the only way we will stop Iran from acquiring a nuclear capability is to convince them we have the will and capacity to deliver a punishing military blow. “Now is not the time for the United States to backtrack or send mixed signals to the Iranians or the world at large. There is strong bipartisan support for the sanctions legislation and I believe equally strong support for the idea that all options are on the table. Unfortunately, this bill talks only of sanctions as the appropriate means to stop the Iranian regime. “Again, a few lines reinforcing that all options are on the table would end this discussion and be the most appropriate signal to send to the Iranians. While I agree it is important to speak before the next round of negotiations in Baghdad, it is more important we speak clearly, forcefully, and completely about our nation’s determination to stop the Iranian regime’s drive to nuclear weapons capability. I’m mystified why this cannot be accommodated quickly.” ####
05.15.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke on the Senate floor in favor of reauthorizing the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. The Export-Import Reauthorization Act of 2012 reauthorizes the Bank through 2014, contains substantial reforms and transparency measures, and increases the Bank’s lending cap to $140 billion. Last week the House of Representatives passed the measure 330-93 (Graham Applauds House Passage of Ex-Im Bank Reauthorization) and the Senate is expected to vote later today. Click to watch Senator Graham’s remarks. #####
05.09.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the House of Representatives passed a reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank of the United States. The legislation will now move to the Senate. "I'm very pleased the House of Representatives authorized Ex-Im Bank for another three years. Ex-Im allows American manufacturers to compete on a level playing field when it comes to selling their products overseas. Ex-Im benefits both large and small businesses and is available when regular financing is difficult to secure. (Link: South Carolina Ex-Im customers available here). "Eighty percent of the Boeing 787s produced in North Charleston will be sold to companies who are eligible for and routinely use Ex-Im financing. Boeing's competitor, Airbus, relies on three export-import banks located in France to help sell their airplanes to international customers. "One-third of the General Electric gas turbines produced in Greenville sold overseas use Ex-Im financing. In the case of Boeing and General Electric, the availability of Ex-Im financing is the difference between staying viable in South Carolina or dramatically reducing their business. Simply put, for South Carolina businesses like these to be successful in the international marketplace, Ex-Im has to be reauthorized. "I appreciate my House colleagues who voted to reauthorize the bank. The legislation they supported overhauls the bank's operations and helps ensure Ex-Im adheres to sound business practices. Over the last five years the bank has made more than $3.4 billion for the federal treasury above and beyond the costs of its operations. "I also respect those who chose a different path and voted against reauthorization. I believe American companies could compete and thrive in a world without Ex-Im Banks and this would be the ideal outcome. However, that world does not exist today. "Competitor nations have Ex-Im Banks far larger and more aggressive than ours. China's export bank is larger than many European nations combined. Canada, one-tenth the population of the United States has an Ex-Im Bank that is three times as large as the United States. "Like Ronald Reagan, I believe in ‘Trust but Verify.' But I see no evidence that competitor nations like China are getting out of the Ex-Im business and I cannot, in good conscience, support unilateral disarmament. In fact, I know if we unilaterally disarm they would only seek to increase their advantage "In the Senate, I will enthusiastically support the House-passed legislation as I do not believe the United States can or should unilaterally disarm." ##### South Carolina Leaders Strongly Support Reauthorization of Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank "Eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners now built in South Carolina are expected to be purchased by international customers who are eligible for and regularly seek export credit support from Ex-Im. Without this support, many of our customers would choose to purchase airplanes from Airbus, made in Europe, built by European labor, sold with the aggressive backing of multiple European export credit agencies. ..Jobs in South Carolina are at risk without an extended and robust reauthorization for Ex-Im." W. James McNerney, Jr. Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer The Boeing Company "Exports are particularly important to the South Carolina economy. If our manufacturing base is to grow, we must continue to expand our ability to export goods from South Carolina facilities. Given the key role the Bank plays in facilitating sales, failure to reauthorize it would be devastating to existing industry and to those we hope to create in the future." Lewis F. Gossett President and CEO South Carolina Manufacturers Alliance "The Bank performs an important function for U.S. companies seeking markets for U.S. made products. The Bank provides credit insurance and export-financing products that fill gaps in trade financing and does not compete with private sector lenders." W. David Hastings President Mount Vernon Mills "First, this issue is of critical importance to Boeing South Carolina and their ability to successfully compete with global aircraft manufacturers. Second, the Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce recently re-established the World Trade Center Charleston. More than 80 percent of Ex-Im's transactions support small businesses. The World Trade Center Charleston's goal is to help our region's small business community to help them expand by selling their products and services on the global marketplace. The Ex-Im is a vitally needed tool to help in expanding local businesses in our region." Bryan Derreberry President and CEO Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce "Over the last five years, Ex-Im has assisted more than 47 South Carolina companies from around the state export their products and services throughout the world. Ex-Im plays an important role in supporting South Carolina jobs and exports. ...Support for the Ex-Im Bank means support for S.C. exports and S.C. jobs." F. Ben Haskew President and CEO Greenville Chamber of Commerce "Last year alone, the Ex-Im supported more than $40 billion in U.S. exports that helped create or sustain 290,000 U.S. jobs at more than 3,600 companies. The Ex-Im is also self-sustaining. In the years since Ex-Im was last authorized in 2006, the bank has returned $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury above and beyond the cost of its operation." Otis Rawl President and Chief Executive Officer South Carolina Chamber of Commerce "Failure to reauthorize Ex-Im will create an unfair disadvantage for American companies, ultimately causing American jobs to move overseas. We cannot afford to not reauthorize Ex-Im." Brad Dean President and CEO Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce "The Bank has proven to be self-sustaining and provides a necessary level playing field in which U.S. Companies can compete in world trade. We need to do everything we can to insure that our workers have jobs that can be supported by their ability to compete fairly in world commerce. Exports play an important part in the economy of South Carolina and particularly in the Upstate region." David Cordea President and CEO Spartanburg Area Chamber of Commerce
05.03.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the case of Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng. Graham is the ranking member on the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on State and Foreign Operations. Graham and Senator Kelly Ayotte (R-New Hampshire) will introduce a resolution in support of Mr. Chen next week. Graham said: “If Chen Guangcheng and his family seek political asylum in the United States, the Obama Administration should grant it immediately.” ##### Additional Information: Roll Call: Graham, Ayotte will introduce Senate resolution supporting Chen Guangcheng
05.02.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the case of Chinese dissident Chen Guangchen. Graham is the ranking member on the State and Foreign Operations subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Graham, along with Senate colleagues, plans to introduce a resolution in support of Mr. Chen next week. He will also lodge objections with the Chinese Embassy in Washington. “If America does not speak up for Mr. Chen who will? If his cause is not just and worthy of support, whose is? “The case of Chen Guangcheng is Exhibit A in how the Chinese communist dictatorship runs roughshod over those who dissent from government policy. Their actions in this matter show how little respect they have for personal freedoms and human rights. “The Obama Administration should not let this moment pass. The Chinese government should be put on notice this case will have an impact on future relations between our two nations. We have leverage to use, but we need the will to do so. “I want a constructive economic and political relationship with China, but the United States must speak out against the Chinese government which tramples over individual freedom and basic human rights. The case of Mr. Chen is fast becoming a defining moment in US-China relations.” #####
05.01.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Strategic Partnership Agreement (SPA) between the United States and Afghanistan. “With the signing of the Strategic Partnership Agreement we have reached a turning point in the Afghan war. With proper implementation, this agreement will be the end of the Taliban’s dream of retaking Afghanistan. The SPA shows a commitment to the development and security of Afghanistan over the next decade, an event which is in our own national security interests. “Under this agreement we put Afghans in the lead and withdraw the vast majority of our forces in 2014 with their honor and security intact. This is a day I have been looking forward to for over two years. I am confident that with proper implementation, this will help secure our nation and allies from future attacks using Afghanistan as a staging area. “The details of the security agreement have yet to be negotiated, but I envision a follow-on force made up of American military power, transport capability and Special Forces units. This post-2014 force would be substantially smaller than what we have today and would shift the tide in any future engagements involving Afghan security forces. “The Agreement sends a signal we are not abandoning Afghanistan and that we will provide assistance to the Afghans as they take the lead engaging the enemy. It is an insurance policy against the reemergence of Taliban and al-Qaeda. The United States has fought too long and hard to fail long-term in Afghanistan. “It is imperative General Allen have sufficient forces to continue the fight against the Taliban and al-Qaeda until 2014, when the Afghans take the lead. Any further reductions in force, beyond recovering the surge forces, puts the mission at risk and is militarily unwise. In the future, General Allen will recommend to the President and Congress the size and shape of the follow-on counterterrorism force. “I want to congratulate President Obama and his team including Ambassador Grossman and national security advisors for entering into the SPA which with proper implementation will secure our long-term strategic interests in Afghanistan. Particular credit goes to General Allen and Ambassador Crocker for their time and effort in negotiating this historic agreement. They have done tremendous work which should be appreciated by all Americans. “Finally, I want to thank Afghan President Hamid Karzai and his administration for their work in helping ensure Afghanistan never again is used as a training ground for terrorists to launch attacks against the United States. The signing of the SPA is a historic day for President Karzai and the people of Afghanistan. He should be congratulated for his wise decision to enter into this relationship.” ##### Additional Information Senator Graham on US-Afghan Night Raid Agreement: http://1.usa.gov/IDfdBT Senator Graham on US-Afghan Detainee Agreement: http://1.usa.gov/Jnu5NW
04.30.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said the United States should stand with Chinese dissident Chen Guangcheng. Chen, a blind human rights lawyer had been under house arrest in China for exposing the practice of forced abortions and sterilization of rural women under China’s One Child Policy. Graham is the ranking member on the Subcommittee on Foreign Operations of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Graham plans to introduce a resolution expressing support for Mr. Chen if the situation has not been resolved before the Senate returns next week. Graham said: “I cannot think of a more defining moment to push China to embrace a more progressive platform on human rights than by standing with Chen Guangcheng. Mr. Chen deserves our admiration and respect for his work, at great personal sacrifice, in speaking out against China’s continued practice of forced abortions and sterilizations. The Obama Administration should work to protect his safety, the safety of his family, and the safety of others associated with him. His cause should be our cause. “Our future relationship with China should be based on exposing the honest differences between us and not just money and trade. There is no better example of the differences we have than the way the Chinese government treats its citizens, like Mr. Chen, who dissent from government policy. “The Chinese communist dictatorship has a terrible human rights record. The United States must push the Chinese communist dictatorship toward democratic reform and respect of the basic human rights of its citizens. Mr. Chen’s case is a powerful reminder China still has far to go in respecting the freedoms and liberties we in the United States hold dear and sometimes take for granted.” #####
04.26.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Savannah River Site is in line to receive full funding in the Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2013 Energy and Water (E&W) Appropriations Act which passed the Senate Appropriations Committee today. Graham is a member of the committee and voted in support of the appropriations bill which passed 28-1. “With this bill, the federal government lives up to the commitments it has made to the state of South Carolina when it comes to cleanup and new missions at the Site,” said Graham. “I’m very pleased with the work of the committee and appreciate my colleagues in recognizing and rewarding the hard work done at SRS. We are operating under the spending limits agreed to under the Budget Control Act and this bill fits within those limited spending restraints.” Among the major Site highlights of the legislation: Overall funding for the Site is approximately $1.7 billion; The MOX program will receive $388.8 million; Site Risk Management Operations will receive $444 million; Radioactive tank cleanup will receive $698 million including $22 million for Salt Waste Processing facility (SWPF); The Site’s community and regulatory support programs are funded at $16 million. “The MOX program, which turns weapons grade plutonium into nuclear fuel is the ultimate example of turning swords into plowshares,” said Graham “This spending plan makes clear that the Senate remains committed to the MOX program and understands the importance of this project to our national security.” Graham noted that last week the House Appropriations Committee reported a similar piece of legislation which reduced funding for the Plutonium Disposition Program (MOX) by $124 million. #####
04.26.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was very pleased the federal funds needed to continue the study of Charleston Harbor deepening had been secured in the Senate. The Senate Appropriations Committee, of which Graham is a member, passed the Senate version of the Fiscal Year 2013 Energy and Water (E&W) Appropriations Act which contains $3.5 million for Charleston Harbor deepening study. The funding is the largest federal contribution to date. “This is the most significant federal contribution made thus far to the Charleston Harbor deepening effort,” said Graham. “Deepening Charleston Harbor is the number-one issue for South Carolina’s economy. The Port of Charleston is our economic gateway to the world and that’s why I have long believed that when it comes to deepening Charleston Harbor, failure is simply not an option.” “Today, about one out of every five jobs in South Carolina is tied – directly and indirectly – to the operation of the Port,” said Graham. “Deepening the port will allow us to keep these jobs in our state and also create more jobs in the future.” Other notable funding in the bill includes: Charleston will receive $20.4 million for continued operations and maintenance funding for navigable waterways. The Port of Georgetown will be eligible to receive funding from the $30 million that was made available in the Small, Remote or Subsistence Harbor Maintenance Account. Folly Beach will receive $400,000 to study future beach renourishment efforts. South Carolina coastal communities, such as Folly Beach and Pawley’s Island, affected by beach erosion will now be eligible to receive funding from the $40 million fund for Shore Protection. #####
04.24.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today spoke on the Senate floor in favor of attempts to stop the National Labor Relations Board’s (NLRB) Ambush Election rule which unnecessarily shifts the power away from job-creating small businesses and into the hands of unions. Graham said: “The NLRB seems hell-bent on changing labor processes across-the-board for purely political reasons. Just like the NLRB complaint against Boeing, the unprecedented NLRB Ambush Election rule takes the agency into another area it’s never gone before. At a time when we’re trying to create jobs, NLRB actions continue to undercut the effort.” Click to watch Senator Graham's remarks. #####
04.19.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), and Joe Lieberman (I-CT) today released the following statement on Syria: “It is time for the Obama Administration to acknowledge what is obvious and indisputable in Syria: the Annan Plan has failed. Bashar al-Assad has not abided, and will not abide, by a ceasefire. And the only way to stop Assad’s campaign of slaughter is for the United States to take tangible steps with our friends and allies to help the Syrian opposition change the military balance of power on the ground. “In a letter to the U.N. Security Council today, U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon stated that Assad is in violation of virtually every provision of the Annan Plan. There is no freedom of movement for journalists. There is no timely provision of humanitarian assistance to areas affected by the fighting. There is no freedom for Syrians to ‘demonstrate peacefully,’ as is their legal right. And most of all, there is no ceasefire. On the contrary, Assad's tanks and artillery continue to shell civilian populations. His forces continue to assault and murder Syrians who attempt to protest peacefully. And his helicopters are now increasingly attacking Syrian towns and cities. Indeed, since the Annan Plan was announced last month, Assad has escalated the violence, killing at least one thousand additional Syrians and displacing thousands more from their homes. “These are the realities in Syria today, and by refusing to recognize them, the international community is only enabling Assad to continue killing. The United Nations cannot be seen as an ineffective body that is fiddling while Syria burns. Assad’s campaign of violence will continue, as it has for more than a year now, until the military balance inside the country shifts against him. Until then, the killing will only increase, and diplomacy will continue to fail. “Changing the military balance inside Syria requires the United States, in close coordination with our Turkish, Arab and other allies, to provide the Syrian opposition with the help they are pleading for to defend themselves. This can include training and equipping the Syrian opposition with weapons, providing them with tactical intelligence, and using airpower to target Assad’s command-and-control and help the Syrian opposition to create safe zones inside Syria. “Some in the Obama Administration have suggested that America can outsource responsibility for providing the opposition with lethal assistance. In fact, based on our own conversations with our friends in the region – including courageous men and women in the Syrian opposition – we are convinced that none of this critical support is on track to happen, nor will it happen, unless the United States shows leadership. Right now, no country is providing the Syrian opposition with the help it desperately needs. The United States and the world are failing the people of Syria. And every day that we refuse to lead, more Syrians will die.” ####
04.19.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Today Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-CT), joined by Senators Klobuchar (D-MN), Kirk (R-IL), Collins (R-ME), Cardin (D-MD), Coats (R-IN) and McCain (R-AZ), introduced a bipartisan resolution that denounces the Syrian government for ongoing crimes against humanity and calling on President Obama to take action to hold accountable those responsible. “Since the start of this conflict, the Syrian regime brutalized its own people, leaving thousands dead as it commits horrific crimes against humanity including the abduction and torture of children. Now is the time for President Obama to use his authority to document such crimes and for the international community to hold Syrian President Bashar al-Assad accountable for these atrocities. This resolution tells the Syrian people that Americans are with them as they fight for freedom and basic democratic rights,” said Blumenthal. “It’s time we speak out against the crimes of the Assad regime and let the Syrian people know we are bearing witness to their plight and suffering,” said Graham. “The courage and resilience they have displayed over the past year, in the face of a horrific and ruthless onslaught, defies comprehension. Our resolution allows the Senate to speak with one voice against the atrocities committed by Bashar al-Assad’s regime and make sure their crimes against humanity are documented." Since the uprisings in Syria began in January of 2011, the Syrian government has engaged in torture, abduction, and detention of the Syrian people, including children. This resolution urges the President to use his authority to collect information regarding such incidents in Syria, its leaders, and senior officials, who are responsible for crimes against humanity to hold them accountable for such crimes. Additionally, it urges President Obama to refer the situation in Syria to the newly established Atrocities Prevention Board and other available international legal processes. ##### Click here for the full resolution.
04.08.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on the U.S.-Afghan agreement on night raids. Graham just returned from a week-long visit to Afghanistan. "Today's signing of a Memorandum of Understanding on night raids in Afghanistan is another major step forward. The agreement balances the practical needs of the Afghan people with the needs of American military commanders. The agreement ensures night raids will continue to deliver punishing blows to the Taliban and other insurgents. "Today's agreement allows continued cooperation between the United States and Afghanistan on intelligence gathering but does require Afghans to be in the lead. I believe it to be strategically sound from a military perspective and will ensure that the military advantage gained through night raids continues. The implementation of both the night raid and recent agreement on detention policy remain a concern but I am very pleased that the two issues have been resolved clearing the way to a Strategic Partnership Agreement. When taken into consideration with the recent agreement on detention, two major obstacles to concluding negotiations on a Strategic Partnership Agreement have been resolved. If we are able to reach a final agreement on the Strategic Partnership Agreement before the Chicago NATO summit in May, I am confident other NATO nations will continue their presence post-2014. "We have many challenges ahead politically, economically, and militarily in Afghanistan but these agreements go a long ways towards ensuring the Taliban can never return to power. I am increasingly confident that we are reaching a turning point in the war where Afghans will be in the lead and the coalition will be in support. Afghan Special Forces capabilities have tremendously increased in the last year and I am confident they are prepared to take the lead in night raid operations. "The most frequent questions Afghans ask is what the US commitment to Afghanistan looks like post 2014. If we can enter into a Strategic Partnership Agreement soon where the U.S. pledges to support Afghanistan politically, economically, and military with a fraction of the troops for counter-terrorism, intelligence, and logistical support, it will end the Taliban's dreams of taking back Afghanistan. A Strategic Partnership Agreement is an insurance policy to ensure the Taliban and Al Qaeda never take control of Afghanistan again, shows Iran that we do not abandon our allies, ends the narrative that America is leaving the region, and sends a strong signal to Pakistan regarding their support for insurgents along the Afghan-Pakistan border." #####
03.30.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), who has compiled a long record as one of the strongest supporters of nuclear energy in the Congress, said he was very pleased the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) had approved the construction permits for two new nuclear reactors in South Carolina. The permits, requested by S.C. Electric & Gas, a subsidiary of SCANA and Santee Cooper are for the construction of two new reactors in Jenkinsville, South Carolina. Graham said: "I have long pushed for a renaissance in nuclear energy. Before February of this year we hadn't built a new nuclear reactor in the United States in more than thirty years. Now, in the last seven weeks we have had major breakthrough with the licensing of four new reactors. This is a long-overdue and much welcomed change in policy. "We worked for years to see these reactors approved and I'm very pleased this long-sought goal has finally been achieved. The construction of two new reactors will be an over $10 billion dollar project and represents one of the largest investments in South Carolina history. "The renaissance in American nuclear energy has begun. And as long-time advocate for nuclear energy, I could not be more pleased to see South Carolina at the forefront to this revival." ####
03.29.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – In 2004, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) passed a provision through the U.S. Senate allowing the Department of Energy to proceed with accelerated cleanup of tanks at Savannah River Site (SRS) that previously held radioactive liquid waste from nuclear weapons production. Today, the Department of Energy announced the accelerated cleanup process is nearly complete on two tanks at the Site (Tanks 18 & 19) and they have begun the process of closing the underground storage tanks. When completed these closures will be the first DOE tanks closed at the Site in 15 years and some of the largest underground storage tanks ever closed by DOE. Graham said: “This is a great milestone for the Site and DOE. Eight years ago, I authored a provision in the United States Senate permitting DOE to clean and close forty, one-million gallon tanks at the Site. The measure passed by a single vote and was later signed into law by President Bush. “Today, we reach the end of the long and winding road. The first two tanks are now clean and in the process of being permanently closed. It was a decision that was good for our environment and good for the taxpayer, saving billions. Today we celebrate a significant accomplishment and one that was a long time in the making.” #####
03.29.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was joined by 25 of his Republican colleagues in sending a letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada) urging him to allow legislation reauthorizing the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank to come to the Senate floor for consideration. Ex-Im Bank reauthorization has broad bipartisan support in the Senate and is critical in efforts to allow for the private sector to create and sustain American jobs. ##### Letter to Senate Majority Leader Reid on Export-Import Reauthorization
03.28.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today welcomed the support of the Spartanburg Area Chamber of Commerce for reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. “The Bank has proven to be self sustaining and provides a necessary level playing field in which U.S. Companies can compete in world trade,” said David Cordeau, President and CEO of the Spartanburg Area Chamber of Commerce. “We need to do everything we can to insure that our workers have jobs that can be supported by their ability to compete fairly in world commerce. Exports play an important part in the economy of South Carolina and particularly in the Upstate region.” The Export-Import Bank was established in 1934 and since Ex-Im was last reauthorized in 2006, the bank has returned $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury above and beyond the costs of its operations. “I truly appreciate David Cordeau and the Spartanburg Area Chamber of Commerce for their support of the reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank,” said Graham, who has been leading Republican efforts in the Senate to reauthorize the bank as its charter expires May 31. The South Carolina House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution calling on Congress to reauthorize Ex-Im and encouraging the congressional delegation to vote in support. The South Carolina Senate overwhelmingly passed the resolution, 32-2. Graham noted that both small and large businesses in South Carolina have benefitted from Ex-Im. One of the most prominent statewide examples is The Boeing Company which opened the 787 Dreamliner production facility in North Charleston. The facility employs more than 6,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs. In a letter sent to Graham, Jim McNerney, President and CEO of Boeing, noted that eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners now built in South Carolina are expected to be purchased by international customers who are eligible for and routinely seek export credit support from Ex-Im Bank. Without Ex-Im, many of these customers would purchase from Airbus, which is made in Europe and backed by multiple European export credit agencies. “The reauthorization of Ex-Im will directly benefit South Carolina’s job creation efforts and manufacturing industries,” said Graham. “It is imperative we continue to grow our ability to export goods made in South Carolina around the world.” “I wish we didn’t need an Ex-Im bank,” said Graham. “But other countries have far more aggressive financing regimes in place. The United States cannot and should not unilaterally disarm. However, it is my goal to do more than reauthorize Ex-Im, we should also work to improve its operations. I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to achieve both goals of reauthorization and improvement of Ex-Im.” “Last year, exports from South Carolina increased by 21 percent,” continued Graham. “We need to continue on that path, creating jobs and putting South Carolinians back to work. If Congress does not reauthorize Ex-Im, it will have a devastating impact to both our state and national economy.” ##### South Carolina Economic Leaders Strongly Support Reauthorization of Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank “Eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners now built in South Carolina are expected to be purchased by international customers who are eligible for and regularly seek export credit support from Ex-Im. Without this support, many of our customers would choose to purchase airplanes from Airbus, made in Europe, built by European labor, sold with the aggressive backing of multiple European export credit agencies. ..Jobs in South Carolina are at risk without an extended and robust reauthorization for Ex-Im.” W. James McNerney, Jr. Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer The Boeing Company “Exports are particularly important to the South Carolina economy. If our manufacturing base is to grow, we must continue to expand our ability to export goods from South Carolina facilities. Given the key role the Bank plays in facilitating sales, failure to reauthorize it would be devastating to existing industry and to those we hope to create in the future.” Lewis F. Gossett President and CEO South Carolina Manufacturers Alliance “The Bank performs an important function for U.S. companies seeking markets for U.S. made products. The Bank provides credit insurance and export-financing products that fill gaps in trade financing and does not compete with private sector lenders.” W. David Hastings President Mount Vernon Mills “First, this issue is of critical importance to Boeing South Carolina and their ability to successfully compete with global aircraft manufacturers. Second, the Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce recently re-established the World Trade Center Charleston. More than 80 percent of Ex-Im’s transactions support small businesses. The World Trade Center Charleston’s goal is to help our region’s small business community to help them expand by selling their products and services on the global marketplace. The Ex-Im is a vitally needed tool to help in expanding local businesses in our region.” Bryan Derreberry President and CEO Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce “Over the last five years, Ex-Im has assisted more than 47 South Carolina companies from around the state export their products and services throughout the world. Ex-Im plays an important role in supporting South Carolina jobs and exports. …Support for the Ex-Im Bank means support for S.C. exports and S.C. jobs.” F. Ben Haskew President and CEO Greenville Chamber of Commerce “Last year alone, the Ex-Im supported more than $40 billion in U.S. exports that helped create or sustain 290,000 U.S. jobs at more than 3,600 companies. The Ex-Im is also self-sustaining. In the years since Ex-Im was last authorized in 2006, the bank has returned $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury above and beyond the cost of its operation.” Otis Rawl President and Chief Executive Officer South Carolina Chamber of Commerce “The deadline for Ex-Im is fast approaching. If reauthorization is not granted before then, some corporations may begin to shift purchases to foreign companies as sufficient credit will not be available. This will add a major, unintended (and unprecedented) barrier to domestic manufacturing. ..Failure to reauthorize Ex-Im will create an unfair disadvantage for American companies, ultimately causing American jobs to move overseas.” Brad Dean President and CEO Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce
03.27.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today welcomed the support of the Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce for reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. “I encourage you to support the reauthorization of Ex-Im promptly and provide it with the adequate credit levels to meet the needs of U.S. exporters,” said Brad Dean, President and CEO of the Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce in a letter to Graham. “Failure to reauthorize Ex-Im will create an unfair disadvantage for American companies, ultimately causing American jobs to move overseas. We cannot afford to not reauthorize Ex-Im.” The Export-Import Bank was established in 1934 and since Ex-Im was last reauthorized in 2006, the bank has returned $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury above and beyond the costs of its operations. “I truly appreciate Brad Dean and the Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce for their support of the reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank,” said Graham, who has been leading Republican efforts in the Senate to reauthorize the bank as its charter expires May 31. The South Carolina House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution calling on Congress to reauthorize Ex-Im and encouraging the congressional delegation to vote in support. The South Carolina Senate overwhelmingly passed the resolution, 32-2. Graham noted that both small and large businesses in South Carolina have benefitted from Ex-Im. One of the most prominent statewide examples is The Boeing Company which opened the 787 Dreamliner production facility in North Charleston. The facility employs more than 6,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs. In a letter sent to Graham, Jim McNerney, President and CEO of Boeing, noted that eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners now built in South Carolina are expected to be purchased by international customers who are eligible for and routinely seek export credit support from Ex-Im Bank. Without Ex-Im, many of these customers would purchase from Airbus, which is made in Europe and backed by multiple European export credit agencies. “The reauthorization of Ex-Im will directly benefit South Carolina’s job creation efforts and manufacturing industries,” said Graham. “It is imperative we continue to grow our ability to export goods made in South Carolina around the world.” “I wish we didn’t need an Ex-Im bank,” said Graham. “But other countries have far more aggressive financing regimes in place. The United States cannot and should not unilaterally disarm. However, it is my goal to do more than reauthorize Ex-Im, we should also work to improve its operations. I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to achieve both goals of reauthorization and improvement of Ex-Im.” “Last year, exports from South Carolina increased by 21 percent,” continued Graham. “We need to continue on that path, creating jobs and putting South Carolinians back to work. If Congress does not reauthorize Ex-Im, it will have a devastating impact to both our state and national economy.” ##### Click here to view the letter from the Myrtle Beach Chamber of Commerce. South Carolina Economic Leaders Strongly Support Reauthorization of Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank “Eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners now built in South Carolina are expected to be purchased by international customers who are eligible for and regularly seek export credit support from Ex-Im. Without this support, many of our customers would choose to purchase airplanes from Airbus, made in Europe, built by European labor, sold with the aggressive backing of multiple European export credit agencies. ..Jobs in South Carolina are at risk without an extended and robust reauthorization for Ex-Im.” W. James McNerney, Jr. Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer The Boeing Company “Exports are particularly important to the South Carolina economy. If our manufacturing base is to grow, we must continue to expand our ability to export goods from South Carolina facilities. Given the key role the Bank plays in facilitating sales, failure to reauthorize it would be devastating to existing industry and to those we hope to create in the future.” Lewis F. Gossett President and CEO South Carolina Manufacturers Alliance “The Bank performs an important function for U.S. companies seeking markets for U.S. made products. The Bank provides credit insurance and export-financing products that fill gaps in trade financing and does not compete with private sector lenders.” W. David Hastings President Mount Vernon Mills “First, this issue is of critical importance to Boeing South Carolina and their ability to successfully compete with global aircraft manufacturers. Second, the Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce recently re-established the World Trade Center Charleston. More than 80 percent of Ex-Im’s transactions support small businesses. The World Trade Center Charleston’s goal is to help our region’s small business community to help them expand by selling their products and services on the global marketplace. The Ex-Im is a vitally needed tool to help in expanding local businesses in our region.” Bryan Derreberry President and CEO Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce “Over the last five years, Ex-Im has assisted more than 47 South Carolina companies from around the state export their products and services throughout the world. Ex-Im plays an important role in supporting South Carolina jobs and exports. …Support for the Ex-Im Bank means support for S.C. exports and S.C. jobs.” F. Ben Haskew President and CEO Greenville Chamber of Commerce “Last year alone, the Ex-Im supported more than $40 billion in U.S. exports that helped create or sustain 290,000 U.S. jobs at more than 3,600 companies. The Ex-Im is also self-sustaining. In the years since Ex-Im was last authorized in 2006, the bank has returned $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury above and beyond the cost of its operation.” Otis Rawl President and Chief Executive Officer South Carolina Chamber of Commerce
03.23.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said the second anniversary of Obama health care being signed into law was not a cause for celebration, but a chance to examine the ‘broken promises’ that have become clear from the law. He was joined at a press conference in Greenville by South Carolinians who have concerns about the effects of Obama health care on the operation of their business. “Two years ago at the Obama health care bill signing the Vice President was overheard telling President Obama, ‘This is a big ‘effing’ deal,’” said Graham. “Unfortunately for them, two years later, the vast majority of Americans believe this has become a big ‘effing’ mess. Graham said there are multiple broken promises with Obamacare which have come to the forefront in the two years since it was signed into law. Among the major issues: President Obama said the law would cost $940 billion. New projections from the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) show the new health care law will be much higher than initially projected. The new cost is $1.76 trillion over the next decade. On the state level, Medicaid expansion will cost the state of South Carolina an additional $1 billion over the next ten years. President Obama said the new law would make health care more affordable. Americans were told health care premiums would go down by $2,500. Instead health care premiums have risen by $2,200 since he has been in office. As more and more provisions of Obamacare are implemented, health care premiums are expected to continue rising. President Obama said if you like you’re health care you can keep it. Recent figures from the Congressional Budget Office show that up to 20 million Americans will be dropped from their employer-provided health insurance and dumped into the government-run exchanges. Other research has placed this number even higher. The Obama Administration has also selectively issued waivers to exempt politically connected supporters and union backers from elements of the law. Thus far, the Obama Administration has issued at least 1,722 waivers covering 4 million people and 2.2 million union members. President Obama said it would help the economy but Obamacare has hurt our economy. The Congressional Budget Office says Obamacare will result in 800,000 fewer American jobs. Many business owners express concerns and confusion about what how the law will impact their business and their bottom line. “I’ve met with thousands of South Carolina business owners and job creators in the two years since this was passed into law,” said Graham. “I’m still waiting for the first business owner to come tell me Obamacare has helped them create jobs. It just hasn’t happened. “Two years later many of the structural flaws of Obamacare are better defined and many of the dubious claims made to support its passage have been proven wrong,” said Graham. “It’s been a trail of broken promises.” #####
03.22.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has waived new congressional restrictions on $1.3 billion in military aid to Egypt. “I support Secretary Clinton’s decision to release previously appropriated funds to the Egyptian military. The Egyptians must understand this is not a blank check and we will continue to insist their government show progress on democratic reforms and protection of religious minorities. “While recent developments in Egypt are unnerving, to say the least, I do believe it is in our national security interests to provide assistance to the Egyptian military. The United States military has a close working relationship with their Egyptian counterparts. These relationships proved to be invaluable and have been a stabilizing influence during these troubling and uncertain times in Egypt. “I know the decision to waive the conditions placed on funding by Secretary Clinton was difficult. But I do believe it is in the best interests of our own national security. I respect and support her decision.” #####
03.22.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he appreciates the South Carolina State Senate’s swift passage of a resolution urging the United States Congress and the South Carolina congressional delegation to support the reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. The state Senate passed the resolution overwhelmingly late yesterday afternoon by a vote of 32-2. The House of Representatives passed the resolution unanimously earlier in the day. “I truly appreciate the members of the South Carolina State Senate, in an overwhelming, bipartisan vote, for passing the resolution encouraging Congress and the congressional delegation to support reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank,” said Graham, who has been leading Republican efforts in the Senate to reauthorize the bank as its charter expires May 31. “I also want to thank Senator Paul Campbell for his help in rounding up support for this important measure,” said Graham. “Given the devastating impact this would have on jobs in South Carolina, the strong statements of support from the South Carolina State Legislature will help build momentum for Ex-Im reauthorization in the halls of Congress.” Graham noted both large and small businesses in South Carolina have benefitted from Ex-Im. One of the most prominent examples is The Boeing Company which opened the 787 Dreamliner production facility in North Charleston. The facility employs more than 6,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs. In a letter sent to Graham, Jim McNerney, President and CEO of Boeing, noted that eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners now built in South Carolina are expected to be purchased by international customers who are eligible for and routinely seek export credit support from Ex-Im Bank. Without Ex-Im, many of these customers would purchase from Airbus, which is made in Europe and backed by multiple European export credit agencies. “The reauthorization of Ex-Im will directly benefit South Carolina’s job creation efforts and manufacturing industries,” said Graham. “It is imperative we continue to grow our ability to export goods made in South Carolina around the world.” “I wish we didn’t need an Ex-Im bank,” said Graham. “But other countries have far more aggressive financing regimes in place. The United States cannot and should not unilaterally disarm. However, it is my goal to do more than reauthorize Ex-Im, we should also work to improve its operations. I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to achieve both goals of reauthorization and improvement of Ex-Im.” “Last year, exports from South Carolina increased by 21 percent,” continued Graham. “We need to continue on that path, creating jobs and putting South Carolinians back to work. If Congress does not reauthorize Ex-Im, it will have a devastating impact to both our state and national economy.” The Export-Import Bank was established in 1934 and since Ex-Im was last reauthorized in 2006, the bank has returned $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury above and beyond the costs of its operations. #####
03.21.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he appreciates the South Carolina House of Representatives swift passage of a resolution urging the United States Congress and the South Carolina congressional delegation to support the reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. “The reauthorization of Ex-Im will directly benefit South Carolina’s job creation efforts and manufacturing industries,” said Graham, who has been leading Republican efforts in the Senate to reauthorize the bank as its charter expires May 31. “It is imperative we continue to grow our ability to export goods made in South Carolina around the world. I also want to thank Speaker Bobby Harrell for spearheading this effort and the members of the legislature who supported the resolution.” Graham noted both large and small businesses in South Carolina have benefitted from Ex-Im. One of the most prominent examples is The Boeing Company which opened the 787 Dreamliner production facility in North Charleston. The facility employs more than 6,000 people in South Carolina and is responsible for thousands of associated jobs. In a letter sent to Graham, Jim McNerney, President and CEO of Boeing, noted that eight out of every ten Boeing 787 Dreamliners built in South Carolina are expected to be purchased by international customers who are eligible for and routinely seek export credit support from Ex-Im Bank. Without Ex-Im, many of these customers would purchase from Airbus, which is made in Europe and backed by multiple European export credit agencies. “I wish we didn’t need an Ex-Im bank,” said Graham. “But other countries have far more aggressive financing regimes in place. The United States cannot and should not unilaterally disarm. However, it is my goal to do more than reauthorize Ex-Im. It must be reformed. I look forward to working with my Senate colleagues to achieve both goals of reauthorization and reform. “Last year, exports from South Carolina increased by 21 percent,” continued Graham. “We need to continue on that path, creating jobs and putting South Carolinians back to work. If Congress does not reauthorize Ex-Im, it will have a devastating impact to both our state and national economy.” The Export-Import Bank was established in 1934 and since Ex-Im was last reauthorized in 2006, the bank has returned $3.4 billion to the U.S. Treasury above and beyond the costs of its operations. #####
03.20.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) ore Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his vote against ending debate on the reauthorization of the Export-Import (Ex-Im) Bank. The vote to end debate failed 55-44 as it required 60 votes for passage. “This is one of the best examples in recent memory of how dysfunctional the Senate has become. My vote today was not on the merits of Export-Import Bank reauthorization -- which I strongly support -- but against a broken process which did not allow Senators to offer any amendments. “Ex-Im reauthorization is an important issue for South Carolina businesses and I don’t think it’s asking too much for the United States Senate to debate and vote on a handful of Republican and Democrat amendments. And just so the American people are clear, we’re not talking about days or weeks of additional debate. The whole process would consume a few hours. “Thousands of jobs in South Carolina are at risk. It’s time to stop the silly games. Let’s devote a few hours to debate and votes and move forward with the reauthorization of Ex-Im Bank. “The American people rightfully expect more from the United States Senate than what they received today. I’m confident reason will prevail and Ex-Im Bank will ultimately be reauthorized. To not do so would be catastrophic for our economy. #####
03.15.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today signed on as a cosponsor of the Congressional Health Care for Seniors Act (CHCSA). The legislation would enroll all seniors into the same health care plan as Members of Congress and federal employees, the Federal Employee Health Benefit program. (FEHB) http://www.opm.gov/insure/health/ “Our goal is to save Medicare from bankruptcy and ensure seniors have affordable, high-quality health care — a crisis President Obama has only made worse during his time in office,” said Graham. “Allowing seniors access to the Federal Employee Health Benefit (FEHB) program, which Members of Congress and federal employees use, will give them more choices and lower their out-of-pocket costs. It’s also good for the taxpayers because it will save the federal government $1 trillion over the next decade and reduce the unfunded liability of Medicare by $16 trillion.” The legislation was introduced by Senator Rand Paul (R-Kentucky) and Graham joined Senators Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) and Mike Lee (R-Utah) in unveiling the legislation at a Capitol Hill press conference today. The Medicare reform legislation builds upon a Social Security reform bill (S. 804), The Social Security Solvency and Sustainability Act, introduced last year by Graham, Paul and Lee. Graham noted that in 2010, federal employees could choose from among the 250 plans participating in FEHB, including 20 nationwide plans. The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) enforces reasonable minimum standards for plans, ensures the health plans are fiscally sound, and enforces rules for consumer protection. Under FEHB, there are no price controls, standardized benefits, or detailed guidelines for doctors or hospitals. All individuals within a plan pay the same premium regardless of their health status or pre-existing conditions. “To get our nation’s fiscal house in order we must address future entitlement spending,” said Graham. “Our bill gets a handle on Medicare costs, which continue to escalate, and ensures the program is sustainable for future generations.” ##### Click here for Sen. Rand Paul's Background Briefing Materials on the Congressional Health Care for Seniors Act.
03.14.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his vote against the Senate transportation bill. “The American people, in both their private and business lives, have to live within a budget. Congress should do the same. Overall, the transportation bill which passed the Senate today did not meet that standard. It also missed opportunities to expand offshore drilling and pave the way for construction and eventual operation of the Keystone pipeline. “Seven months ago, the Budget Control Act (BCA) set spending levels, which were modest at best, to control spending. Today, the Senate transportation bill violated those spending levels. And efforts to bring the bill back into balance, like the amendments offered by Senators Corker and DeMint, failed. “I’m confident the House of Representatives will not accept the Senate legislation passed today. I am hopeful the House will bring the bill back into balance. If they are able to accomplish that goal, I will support the final legislation." #####
03.14.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on Afghanistan. “I believe, based upon my many visits to Afghanistan, that General Allen has a sound plan for withdrawal and transition of U.S. forces to Afghan control. This plan has to be adequately resourced to be successful and I have not heard any criticism about the soundness of his plan. “It is my hope that General Allen will receive bipartisan support to execute withdrawal and transition in a sound way. He has earned the trust and respect of the United States Congress and the American people to execute this plan. Unfortunately, the Obama Administration has had an unnerving tendency to change sound military plans for domestic political purposes. “General Allen’s plan will allow us to withdraw by the end of 2014 and put Afghans in the lead regarding their security throughout the entire country. The plan envisions a small counter-terrorism force left behind to ensure that the Taliban and Al Qaeda can never regroup to use Afghanistan as a staging area for future attacks against the United States. A follow on counter-terrorism force will provide airpower and Special Forces capability to the emerging Afghan Army and will ensure that the Taliban and Al Qaeda are always defeated in any future engagement. The size and shape of this force is yet to be determined but I believe it can be done with a fraction of the troops present in Afghanistan today. “It is very disturbing to hear reports that the Administration is considering accelerating U.S. troop withdrawals which put in jeopardy General Allen’s ability to execute his mission. The resources necessary for General Allen to orderly withdraw and transition cannot be jeopardized because of short term political considerations. That is why I have been a vocal critic of Republicans who arbitrarily suggest we leave. Likewise, the Obama Administration should not accelerate troop withdrawal based on polling for the upcoming elections. “When it comes to withdrawing from Afghanistan we should do so in a manner that will maintain America’s honor, reliability and national security interests. The question is not whether we withdraw, it’s how we withdraw. “General Allen has a plan for withdrawal and transition that will ensure our long-term national security interests. I should receive widespread, bipartisan support and President Obama should not undercut this plan. “The last war managed by politicians, Vietnam, did not go very well. Afghanistan is not Vietnam and the consequences of failure in Afghanistan are wide-ranging and will last for decades. “If any part of Afghanistan falls back into Taliban control it will put immense pressure on Pakistan, a nuclear armed state. The last thing the Iranians need to see from America is lack of will to finish the job in a sound manner in Afghanistan. How we withdraw in Afghanistan will shape our national security interests for decades. “I firmly believe General Allen has the right approach to withdrawal and transition. I will vigorously oppose any effort to change his plan because of short-term political considerations, regardless of party. I will stand with the Obama Administration if they stand with General Allen’s plan. If they attempt to micro-manage the war and change our withdrawal plan for election year politics, it will be a grave national security mistake and something the American public should consider when trying to pick the next President.” #####
03.12.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), one of the strongest supporters of nuclear energy in the Senate, has introduced legislation, The Nuclear Waste Fund Relief and Rebate Act. Electric utilities have been paying into the Nuclear Waste Trust Fund to construct and operate a permanent federal nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. The utilities have been charging their costumers a monthly fee in each electricity bill to make these payments. According to the latest information, South Carolina residents alone have already contributed more than $1.3 billion to the fund, which has collected a total of more than $35 billion in fees. The legislation introduced by Graham would rebate these monies back to electric utilities and consumers. Seventy-five percent of the amount rebated to utilities would be returned to their customers and the remaining portion will be used to make upgrades to on-site storage facilities. Additionally, the legislation authorizes payments to states currently housing defense nuclear waste scheduled to be transferred to Yucca Mountain. These payments begin in 2017, the date in which Yucca Mountain was to set to receive shipments of defense nuclear waste. “No one should be required to pay for an empty hole in the Nevada desert,” said Graham. “The decision by the Obama Administration to close Yucca Mountain was ill-advised and leaves our nation without a disposal plan for spent nuclear fuel or Cold War waste. It was a political, not scientific, decision. It is incumbent on the Administration to come up with a disposal plan for this real problem facing our nation.” The major provisions of the Graham legislation include: Presidential Certification: The Department of Energy has spent billions of dollars and decades studying the suitability of Yucca Mountain as the nation’s repository for spent nuclear fuel and defense waste. Consistently, the science has borne out that Yucca Mountain is the best site to dispose of nuclear waste. Within 30 days of passage, the President must certify that Yucca Mountain remains the preferred choice to serve as the federal repository for spent nuclear fuel and defense-related nuclear waste. Failure to Certify Leads to Rebates: If the President fails to make the above certification, or revokes the certification at a later date, all funds currently in the Nuclear Waste Trust Fund shall be rebated back to the utilities. Seventy-five percent of the amount rebated to utilities would be returned to their customers and the remaining money will be used to make security and storage upgrades at existing nuclear power plants. Defense Waste: Currently, there is at least 12,800 metric tons of defense-related waste at nuclear weapons complex facilities around the country. Unlike commercial spent fuel, this waste has no potential future defense or civilian uses. In many states, the accumulated waste poses the largest potential public health threat. In order to help mitigate the risk associated with the indefinite storage of defense waste, the legislation authorizes payments of up to $100 million per year if defense waste has not begun to have left the states by 2017. Waste Confidence: In order to continue to renew or issue licenses for civilian nuclear power plants, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) must have reasonable confidence that the waste will be disposed of safely. The legislation includes waste confidence language that allows for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to continue to license nuclear reactors in the event the Presidential certification is not made. “Our nation needs real options as a result of the uncertainty created by the Obama Administration’s change in policy,” said Graham. “I will push this legislation forward and hope to have the full Senate on-the-record on this important issue.” Co-sponsors of the legislation include Senators Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), and Ron Johnson (R-Wisconsin). ######
03.09.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on the transfer of detainees from United States to Afghan control. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Today’s agreement regarding detainees begins to clear the path for a broader strategic partnership agreement between our two nations which will be the biggest accomplishment to secure Afghanistan in over a decade. The remaining issue left to be dealt with is the issue of night raids with Afghans in the lead, a vitally important military tactic which must be preserved. “I applaud the successful efforts of Ambassador Crocker, General Allen, his staff, and other Administration officials, like Ambassador Grossman the Special Representative for Afghanistan and Pakistan, who have worked tirelessly to negotiate an agreement regarding future disposition of law-of-war detainees held in U.S. custody in Afghanistan. This has been an emotional and contentious topic for all concerned. “The agreement signed today ensures detainees are not arbitrarily released to return to the battlefield and most importantly creates a double-key veto system where the U.S. commander has the ability to object to an individual detainee released that may pose a threat to Coalition Forces and the Afghan people. “This is a sound and solid approach to detainee transfers, an issue I have been deeply involved in for over a year and a half. The agreement enhances Afghan sovereignty but with a robust check and balance system to protect Coalition Forces and continue to apply pressure to the insurgency. “The Afghans have changed their law to allow for administrative detention of an insurgent engaged in hostile actions against Coalition Forces and the people of Afghanistan. Previously there was resistance to creation of a law-of-war system for insurgents requiring us to rely on a porous and undermanned Afghan criminal justice system that could not deal with intelligence generated cases. “The adoption of Protocol II of the Geneva Convention, allowing for nations facing an insurgency to detain individuals as a security threat, rather than a common criminal, is a major breakthrough in the war effort. It creates a lane of detention under Afghan law specifically designed to deal with the insurgent threat. “As previously mentioned, this begins to clear the way for a broader strategic partnership between our two nations. “The strategic partnership agreement is the last card to be played in Afghanistan. If it comes about, as I envision, it will be the end of the Taliban and other insurgent forces ability to acquire power through military means in Afghanistan. The post-2014 military relationship covered by the agreement would allow a follow-on force made up of American military power, transport capability and Special Forces units. “This post-2014 force would be substantially smaller than today and would shift the tide of battle in any future engagement of Afghan security forces, Taliban and other insurgents. With American airpower and Special Forces units backing up the Afghan forces, the Taliban dreams of reoccupying Afghanistan will have come to an end. This will hopefully lead to political reconciliation in Afghanistan, end the narrative that America is leaving the region, and send a strong signal to Pakistan regarding their support for insurgents along the Afghan-Pakistan border. “Equally important, it will be a clear signal to Iran that we are not abandoning the region, the Afghan people who have stood by our side, and those who believe American presence in the region is vital to stability. I hope a strategic partnership between the United States and Afghanistan will also lead to strategic partnership agreements between individual NATO nations and Afghanistan and make it more likely NATO will be committed to Afghanistan post-2014. “The last remaining issue to be dealt with before we have a chance to enter into a strategic partnership agreement is the continuation of night raids against the insurgency. Night raids have dealt a severe blow to the Taliban and other insurgents as Coalition Forces and Afghan Special Forces own the night militarily. In recent months, almost 80 percent of detainees captured on the battlefield have come from night raids. “If we are able to successfully deal with the night raid issue, then it is possible to have a strategic partnership agreement that ensures an all encompassing relationship post-2014 in the areas of economic, political and military cooperation. “General Allen has reformed the night raid process to put Afghans in the lead, dramatically reduced civilian casualties, and increased Afghan capacity in this area. Due to a shortage of trained Afghan pilots and specialized equipment, Coalition Forces must be allowed to continue partnering with Afghan Special Forces in future night raids. “General Allen has stated unequivocally that night raids with Afghans in the lead are an essential military tool to continue the momentum against the Taliban and other insurgents. I’m hopeful that an agreement regarding future night raids will be reached with a goal of increasing Afghan capacity in this area but always ensuring that the insurgency will be aggressively pursued in the night. Much of our intelligence regarding IED cells and other attacks against Coalition Forces has come from night raid captures. This must be allowed to continue. “With a rational agreement allowing for US captures to Afghan control, combined with an agreement that will continue night raids, we could be on the verge of reaching a turning point in the war – a strategic partnership agreement – that will allow us to reduce our military presence post-2014. “Most importantly, we are on a path to ensure Afghanistan – the place where Osama Bin Laden was the honored guest of the Taliban is never used as a terrorist safe haven again. We have a long way to go militarily and rampant corruption remains a problem. But from my many trips to Afghanistan, I know there is a generation of young Afghans who are truly committed to a brighter future for their nation. They have the desire they just need the time and capacity to become the leaders of the future. They embrace a modern conservative Islamic country that will be a source of stability in the region and an ally against the darkness of terror. This is an outcome that we have been fighting for and tremendously enhances our nation’s national security.” #####
02.24.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona) and Joe Lieberman (I-Connecticut) today released the following statement on Syria: “Today’s ‘Friends of Syria’ meeting in Tunisia of more than 60 countries and international organizations establishes a long-overdue and welcome forum for ending the Assad regime, stopping his relentless campaign of violence, and bolstering the legitimate forces of opposition to Assad’s rule. This gathering underscores not only the international isolation of Assad, but also of his defenders and supporters in Russia, China, and Iran, whose continued, cynical embrace of Assad is a disgrace in the eyes of Arab nations and the entire civilized world. “Unfortunately, speeches and meetings by themselves will do nothing to stop the unacceptable slaughter in Syria, which is growing worse by the day. We remain deeply concerned that our international diplomacy risks becoming divorced from the reality on the ground in Syria, which is now an armed conflict between Assad's forces and the people of Syria who are struggling to defend themselves against indiscriminate attacks. What is needed urgently are tangible actions by the community of responsible nations to ensure that the Syrian people have the means to protect themselves against their attackers. This assistance should include access to weapons, tactical intelligence, communications equipment, financing, and medical supplies. We should also explore measures that can be taken to disrupt Assad's ability to command and control his forces. At the same time, we must do more to document the mass atrocities being perpetrated in Syria. It has been reported that unmanned aerial vehicles are now being flown over Syria to monitor sites containing weapons of mass destruction and related materials. This is appropriate, but unmanned aerial vehicles should also be tasked to document attacks on Syrian civilians by Assad's forces and to enable the Syrian opposition to defend against them. We should rule out no option that could help save lives. “The United States need not provide all of this assistance directly by ourselves. Indeed, we should continue to encourage the active involvement of Syria’s neighbors, especially in the Arab League and Turkey. Still, if the community of responsible nations is to assist the Syrian people in bringing Assad’s violent rule to an end, there can be no substitute for vigorous American leadership. “The situation in Syria is often compared to Libya last year. In fact, the better analogy may be to the Balkans in the 1990s. Then, as now, the civilized world was initially prevented at the United Nations by Russia and China from taking effective action against a vicious dictator who was slaughtering innocent civilians – forcing us to work outside the Security Council to end the violence. We must do so again.” ####
02.16.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced a resolution that puts the Senate on record as ruling out a strategy of containment for a nuclear-armed Iran. The bipartisan resolution currently has 27 Senate cosponsors. “I’m very pleased the Senate will speak with a strong, unified voice that a nuclear-armed Iran is an unacceptable option for our own national security and the security of our allies throughout the world,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “My resolution will afford every Senator the opportunity to speak on this issue and I expect a strong bipartisan vote in support. Having a political consensus between the White House and Congress that a nuclear-armed Iran is unacceptable is a giant step forward in sending an important message at a critical time.” The Graham resolution: Strongly rejects any policy that fails to prevent the Iranian government from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability and would settle for future efforts to “contain” a nuclear weapons capable Iran. Urges President Obama to reaffirm the unacceptability of an Iran with nuclear-weapons capability and oppose any policy that would rely on containment as an option in response to the Iranian nuclear threat. Urges continued and increasing economic and diplomatic pressure on Iran until they agree to the full and sustained suspension of all uranium enrichment-related and reprocessing activities, complete cooperation with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) on all outstanding questions related to their nuclear activities including implementation of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) Additional Protocol, and the verified end of their ballistic missile programs. “It’s obvious to most people that once Iran obtains nuclear capability others in the region will respond in kind,” said Graham. “A nuclear-armed Iran also makes it exponentially more likely this information could fall into the hands of terrorist organizations.” “I believe, to some extent, sanctions are working and believe they can be successful in helping turn around Iran’s nuclear ambitions,” said Graham. “However it is imperative the Russian and Chinese assist the international community in changing Iranian behavior. “Finally, as President Obama said in his State of the Union address, ‘All options must remain on the table’ when it comes to stopping Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon,” concluded Graham. Co-sponsors of the Graham resolution include: Senators John Boozman (R-Arkansas), Scott Brown (R-Massachusetts), Bob Casey (D-Pennsylvania), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Dan Coats (R-Indiana), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Chris Coons (D-Delaware), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Dean Heller (R-Nevada), John Hoeven (R-North Dakota), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas), James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma), Sen. Joseph Lieberman (I-Connecticut), Robert Menendez (D-New Jersey), John McCain (R-Arizona), Claire McCaskill (D-Missouri), Barbara Mikulski (D-Maryland), Bill Nelson (D-Florida), Rob Portman (R-Ohio), Mark Pryor (D-Arkansas), James E. Risch (R-Idaho), Marco Rubio (R-Florida), and Chuck Schumer (D-New York). ##### Video of Senator Graham Discussing Iran Resolution
02.13.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the death of Clemson Mayor Larry Abernathy. “Larry Abernathy was one of the most dedicated public servants I have ever had the pleasure of working with. He truly loved Clemson and provided steady and strong leadership during his time as Mayor. “Under Mayor Abernathy’s leadership, the City of Clemson has evolved from a small college town to a vibrant, thriving community which is truly one of the best places to live in all of South Carolina. Larry will be missed by his family, friends and all who had the honor and pleasure of knowing him.” ####
02.09.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was very pleased the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) had voted 4-1 today to approve the nations’ first nuclear reactor construction permits in more than three decades. Graham has a long record in support of nuclear energy. “This is a major step on the road to a nuclear renaissance in the United States. NRC approvals will allow us to move forward as a nation in building new reactors for the first time in more than 30 years. When it comes to the development of nuclear power, America has been sleeping like Rip Van Winkle, plus another ten years. “Now that Southern Company has gotten the green light for the new Vogtle facility, I am hopeful SCANA and Santee Cooper will be the next in line to receive permits for Jenkinsville. I will continue to do everything in my power to keep the next generation of nuclear power on track and moving forward in the United States." #####
02.09.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced he opposes the Obama Administration’s push for mandates on contraception which forces some religious organizations to provide services which violate the pillars of their faith. Earlier this week, Graham signed on as a co-sponsor to Senator Marco Rubio’s (R-Florida) Religious Freedom Restoration Act to rectify this overreach by the Obama Administration. Graham said: “The Obama Administration’s insistence that religious organizations violate their beliefs will be rejected by the American people. Religious organizations should not be required to provide health care services that violate the pillars of their faith. When it comes to Obamacare, this type of overreach continues to leave a bad taste in the mouths of the American people. “The Supreme Court recently held 9-0 that religious organizations can adopt hiring practices consistent with their religious tenets. I’m confident that Congress will ultimately overrule Secretary Sebelius’s decision.” ##### Background Information: USA Today: Obama mandate on birth control coverage stirs controversy
02.08.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Joe Lieberman (I-Connecticut) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released this statement on the situation in Syria. “The conflict in Syria is entering a critical new phase. Assad’s slaughter of people in Syria, including dozens more killed today, is only increasing and growing more ruthless. In Libya, the threat of imminent atrocities in Benghazi mobilized the world to act. Such atrocities are now a reality in Homs and other cities all across Syria. More than 6,000 lives have been lost, and there is no end in sight. “The courage and resilience of the Syrian people over the past ten months defies comprehension. However, while tougher sanctions and the formation of an international contact group for Syria are welcome, the actions of the community of nations are increasingly divorced from the reality on the ground in Syria, which is becoming an armed conflict between forces loyal to Assad and the people of Syria. The backers of Assad in Russia, China, and Iran are doing their utmost to help him crush the Syrian opposition. The question for the international community, especially for the United States, is: are we equally committed to ensuring that Assad’s opponents emerge victorious in Syria? “The bloodshed must be stopped, and we should rule out no option that could help to save lives. We must consider, among other actions, providing opposition groups inside Syria, both political and military, with better means to organize their activities, to care for the wounded and find safe haven, to communicate securely, to defend themselves, and to fight back against Assad’s forces. Regardless of what actions we take, they will be more effective if they are coordinated with our friends and allies in the European Union, Turkey, the Arab League, and the Gulf Cooperation Council. “The end of Assad’s rule would not only be a moral and humanitarian victory for the Syrian people; it would be a strategic defeat for the Iranian regime. The time has come when all options must be on the table to force Assad to leave power.” #####
02.08.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was pleased the work plan today released by the U.S. Army Corp of Engineers set aside $2.5 million to continue the on-going study to deepen Charleston Harbor. The federal share is matched by an equal contribution from the South Carolina State Ports Authority. “This is the most significant federal contribution made thus far to the Charleston Harbor deepening effort,” said Graham. “It is a significant victory given the fact President Obama’s budget for Fiscal Year 2012 had nothing allocated for Charleston.” “As a result of language we were able to include in last year’s spending bill, Charleston was eligible to receive funding to continue its deepening study,” said Graham. “These funds are being awarded under a more merit-based system. We have always known that Charleston will fare well under that standard as harbor deepening is a worthwhile investment.” “Today, about one out of every five jobs in South Carolina is tied – directly and indirectly – to the operation of the Port,” said Graham. “Deepening the port will allow us to keep these jobs in our state and also create more jobs in the future.” Graham noted President Obama will release his Fiscal Year 2013 budget next week and is hopeful funds to deepen Charleston Harbor will be included. He also continues to work with the Army Corps of Engineers and South Carolina State Ports Authority to explore avenues to help expedite the harbor deepening project from its estimated 2024 completion date. “Deepening Charleston Harbor is the number-one issue for South Carolina’s economy,” said Graham. “The Port of Charleston is our economic gateway to the world. We have to ensure the harbor deepening process moves forward in an efficient and cost-effective manner. This is good news we’ll celebrate today, but we know the President’s budget release early next week is yet another important step in the process.” #####
01.30.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today joined 43 Senators in sponsoring legislation to approve the Keystone XL pipeline. In addition to providing stable oil supplies, Keystone XL is also expected to create approximately 130,000 jobs. “The Obama Administration’s decision to delay construction of the Keystone XL pipeline was irresponsible,” said Graham. “Keystone XL will create thousands of jobs in the United States and also help reduce our dependence on oil from the Middle East and Venezuela.” The legislation approves Keystone XL under Congress’s authority enumerated in the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution, Article 1, Section 8. Under the legislation, TransCanada will be authorized to construct and operate the Keystone XL pipeline from Alberta, Canada, to the U.S. Gulf Coast. The bill allows the company to move forward with construction of the pipeline in the United States while the state of Nebraska works to determine an alternative route. When completed, the pipeline will transport an additional 830,000 barrels of oil per day to U.S. refineries. “The construction and operation of Keystone XL is an economic and energy must-do for the United States,” said Graham. “I am pleased to support this effort and am hopeful it will pass the Congress in a strong, bipartisan vote.” #####
01.25.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today released the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union address: "I disagree with President Obama, Washington's problem is not that there is too little revenue. Washington's problem is that it spends too much. Tonight was more about political theater than problem solving. I had hoped he would leave the class warfare rhetoric behind and try to bring us all together, but his speech was more about highlighting our differences than what we have in common. I was very disappointed with his speech. "The President missed an opportunity to advocate for any of the entitlement reform proposals offered by the bipartisan Bowles-Simpson Commission; support restructuring our tax code to make us more competitive; or pay down the national debt. "We desperately need to create jobs in America and I believe the best way to do that is to tax less, regulate less, and free up the private sector." #####
01.19.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on the Protect IP Act (PIPA), which targets websites primarily dedicated to providing illegally pirated intellectual property. PIPA passed out of the Senate Judiciary Committee by voice vote in May, and has attracted a bipartisan group of cosponsors. “I am a strong supporter of protecting intellectual property rights, which is vital to the American economy. Online piracy is a direct threat to the competing principles of copyright protection and web freedom. I hope that the two sides will realize their shared interests and come together to help fix this problem. This is a healthy debate, and the opposition to PIPA and SOPA have raised some legitimate questions. If we can make this bill better, let’s do it.” ####
01.11.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Following the announcement that the Iranian government has begun enrichment activities at the Fordow site near Qom, Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Joe Lieberman (I-Connecticut) announced today that they will introduce a bipartisan resolution that will put the Senate on record as ruling out a strategy of containment for a nuclear-armed Iran. Below is the text of a joint statement by Senators Graham and Lieberman: "The beginning of enrichment at the Fordow facility marks an alarming leap forward by the Iranian nuclear program. Despite the increased sanctions put in place over the last several years, the American people should have no illusions: time is now quickly running out to prevent a nuclear-armed Iran. "The news from Qom must inject unprecedented urgency into the drive to impose crippling sanctions against the Central Bank of Iran, cutting it off from the international financial system, and stop purchases of Iranian oil, as authorized by legislation passed by Congress and signed by President Obama late in December. We urge the European Union and the major economies of Asia to implement these measures immediately, and for the Obama Administration to do everything possible to ensure they do so. "Some have suggested that -- should economic and diplomatic pressure fail to force Iran to abandon its pursuit of acquiring nuclear weapons -- the next best option is for the United States to accept and then contain a nuclear-armed Iran. That would be a catastrophic mistake. "The resolution we intend to introduce will put the Senate on record as opposing containment in the strongest and clearest terms, detailing why the consequences of a nuclear-armed Iran cannot be 'contained' like the threat of the Soviet Union. "When it comes to addressing the threat of a nuclear-armed Iran, all options must be on the table -- except for one, and that is containment. We are confident that an overwhelming bipartisan super-majority of our colleagues will join us in passing this resolution, which will send a clear message to Iran's rulers that we are absolutely determined to stop them from getting nuclear weapons. Containment is failure, and failure cannot be an option." ####
01.06.2012	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John Thune (R-South Dakota), John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), Mike Johanns (R-Nebraska), Kay Hagan (D-North Carolina), Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), and Representative Kay Granger (R-Texas) will travel to Africa from January 5-13. The delegation will conduct oversight of Department of Defense, Department of State, and USAID activities in Africa. The congressional delegation trip seeks to understand the impact of U.S. sponsored counter-terrorism programs and projects relating to health, economic development, and strengthened trade relationships with African nations. #####
01.05.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on future reductions in defense spending. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “We have built the finest military in the history of the world, and a strong national defense is the number one priority of the federal government. I realize our current budget situation demands that everything, including defense, be on the table for some level of spending reductions. First, we should place Defense Department spending under the microscope with a goal of achieving $400 billion plus in savings over the next decade. This is a difficult but achievable task. Second, we must replace the sequestration provisions of the Budget Control Act which calls for an additional $600 billion in defense spending reductions. These additional reductions come about because of the failure of the Super Committee. “Secretary Panetta has warned that an additional $600 billion cut to defense, coming on top of the $400 billion discussed today, would destroy our defenses. After ten years and more than $1 trillion in total defense cuts, we would have the smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest number of ships since 1915 and the smallest Air Force in history. “The Super Committee’s failure should not be an excuse to destroy our national defense and I hope President Obama understands the real, negative consequences to our national security by cutting more than $1 trillion out of defense over the next decade. He only needs to listen to his Secretary of Defense and our military leadership who have warned in the most candid fashion, what a reduction of this size would do to our nation.” ##### Graham on Areas to Explore for Future Defense Savings: Weapons procurement reform: Cost-plus contracts should be scuttled when it comes to major weapons systems. It’s a system only the government would love — the longer it takes, the more it costs, the more the contractor makes. This unsustainable system isn’t fair to the taxpayers and demands congressional reform. Personnel cost reform: The single largest military expense is not tanks and planes and other equipment, but personnel, accounting for 45 percent of the base defense budget. The current rate of growth is clearly unsustainable and — if not addressed — will pit the needs of retirees against our strategic interests and the needs of the active duty force. Contract force reform: Since the Sept. 11 attacks, there’s been an explosion in the number and cost of the contract force. Many times these civilian contractors will perform jobs similar to those of active-duty soldiers, but at three times their pay. Today, there are more than 500,000 civilian contractors working in the Defense Department’s service sector alone. We need to take a close look at this and put ideas on the table about how we can constrain and roll back the growth of civilian employees, particularly the contract force.
01.04.2012	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Obama’s ‘recess’ appointments to the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Graham had pledged to block Senate confirmation of nominees to the NLRB Board. “Mr. President, hasn’t the NLRB already done enough damage? Today’s action may impress the union bosses but will deliver yet another blow to job creation. “The NLRB has become an out-of-control rogue bureaucracy. President Obama, by empowering this agency rather than reforming it, is making job creation even more difficult. I will continue to do everything in my power to put the brakes on the NLRB as currently constructed. “I again encourage the appropriate House and Senate committees to investigate the contacts between the NLRB and Machinists Union in their complaint against The Boeing Company. We have already seen NLRB communications, made available by a Freedom of Information Act, which shows the NLRB had a callous and negative attitude against Boeing’s decision to open a South Carolina facility. “A congressional investigation to answer questions about the NLRB’s role, attitude, and relationship with the parties is definitely warranted. I’m glad the ridiculous complaint against Boeing has gone away, but there are disturbing questions about possible collaboration between the Machinists union and the NLRB against Boeing. These questions must be answered.” #####
12.20.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington-- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement on recent developments in Iraq: “We are alarmed by recent developments in Iraq, most recently the warrant issued today by the Maliki government for the arrest of Sunni Vice President Tariq al Hashimi. This is a clear sign that the fragile political accommodation made possible by the surge of 2007, which ended large-scale sectarian violence in Iraq, is now unraveling. This crisis has been precipitated in large measure by the failure and unwillingness of the Obama Administration to reach an agreement with the Iraqi government for a residual presence of U.S. forces in Iraq, thereby depriving Iraq of the stabilizing influence of the U.S. military and diminishing the ability of the United States to support Iraq. “If Iraq slides back into sectarian violence, the consequences will be catastrophic for the Iraqi people and U.S. interests in the Middle East, and a clear victory for al Qaeda and Iran. A deterioration of the kind we are now witnessing in Iraq was not unforeseen, and now the U.S. government must do whatever it can to help Iraqis stabilize the situation. We call upon the Obama Administration and the Iraqi government to reopen negotiations with the goal of maintaining an effective residual U.S. military presence in Iraq before the situation deteriorates further.” ####
12.19.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – South Carolina’s United States Senators Jim DeMint and Lindsey Graham today sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to withdraw the nomination of Lafe Solomon, Acting General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB). Following the NLRB’s dismissal earlier this month of their unfounded complaint against Boeing Co., Solomon threatened to take the same misguided action in the future. Solomon said that “if we were ever faced with a similar pattern, we might well issue a complaint.” “In light of Mr. Solomon’s recent actions and continued threats, your withdrawal of Mr. Solomon’s nomination as General Counsel to the NLRB would send a powerful signal that you will not allow intimidation and inappropriate interference by one of your nominees for a powerful post,” Senators Graham and DeMint wrote. “Instead of serving as an unbiased adjudicating body that protects the rights of employees and employers, the NLRB has demonstrated an unprecedented and unacceptable overreach of authority. Mr. Solomon’s recent threat is further pressuring every employer to think twice about relocating within the U.S., while facing no retribution for moving outside the country." The Senators concluded that “withdrawing Mr. Solomon’s nomination would be an important first step,” in keeping businesses from moving overseas looking for a better economic environment. In a major departure from long-established law, the NLRB in April filed a complaint against Chicago-based Boeing claiming Boeing violated federal law simply by building a second production line in South Carolina, a right-to-work state. The NLRB dropped this complaint on December 9, only after Boeing made concessions to their union employees. Graham and DeMint were joined in the letter by Senators Mike Johanns (R-Nebraska), Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee), John Thune (R-South Dakota), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), Marco Rubio (R-Florida) and Jerry Moran (R-Kansas). The full text of the letter is below: December 19, 2011 President Barack Obama The White House1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20500 Dear President Obama: We are writing to urge you to withdraw the nomination of Acting General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) Lafe Solomon. We were alarmed to read Mr. Solomon’s comments published by the Associated Press on December 9, 2011. Mr. Solomon threatened, “if we were ever faced with a similar pattern, we might well issue a complaint.” This statement is a direct assault on business expansion in right-to-work states. American employers should have the freedom to make private business decisions without the threat of a government-appointed official filing disparaging and costly litigation. Especially during this economic climate, this sort of bullying by a federal official whom you have handpicked cannot be tolerated. In light of Mr. Solomon’s recent actions and continued threats, your withdrawal of Mr. Solomon’s nomination as General Counsel to the NLRB would send a powerful signal that you will not allow intimidation and inappropriate interference by one of your nominees for a powerful post. Instead of serving as an unbiased adjudicating body that protects the rights of employees and employers, the NLRB has demonstrated an unprecedented and unacceptable overreach of authority. Mr. Solomon’s recent threat is further pressuring every employer to think twice about relocating within the U.S., while facing no retribution for moving outside the country. This fear among American businesses to relocate and expand in the U.S. originated from Mr. Solomon’s complaint against Boeing filed on April 20, 2011. Mr. Solomon claimed that Boeing’s decision to open a second production line for its 787 Dreamliner in South Carolina, a right-to-work state, was an act of retaliation against unionized workers at its first production line in the State of Washington. However, the facts against this claim are unyielding: not one person in the State of Washington lost a job due to this business decision. Rather, 2,000 additional people were hired for the first production line following the decision. On December 9, 2011, the NLRB withdrew its complaint. Clearly having learned nothing from the initial pursuit against Boeing, Mr. Solomon’s threat to repeat such a misguided NLRB complaint demonstrates a complete disregard for the law and common sense; thus, this request to withdraw Mr. Solomon’s nomination. We seek a shared goal – to make America the best place to do business. Unfortunately, we continue to hear from businesses that the economic climate, massive government debt, regulatory burdens, and overall government intervention in private business stifles job growth and creation. It is critically important that we keep American businesses from moving abroad by fostering an economic winning atmosphere in the U.S. Withdrawing Mr. Solomon’s nomination would be an important first step. ####
12.19.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on the death of North Korean dictator Kim Jong-il. “From a historical perspective, Kim Jong-il’s reign was one of terror, oppression and brutality to his own people. I hope the Administration will signal to our allies in South Korea and Japan that we will stand behind them as power is transferred in North Korea. Anytime you have a vacuum in an unstable place like North Korea, it is dangerous for the world at large.” #### AUDIO: Senator Lindsey Graham on the death of Kim Jong-il
12.17.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) and Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia) today made this statement on the breakthrough port deepening provisions included in the year-end spending bill that passed the Senate this morning by a 67-32 vote. Ports in Savannah, Georgia, and Charleston, South Carolina, both have harbor deepening projects they continue to push forward to prepare for the larger ships that will be coming through Panama Canal beginning in 2014. “With the significant spending cuts contained in this bill, Congress is finally taking a step in the right direction toward reining in Washington's reckless spending spree. This bill also takes a new, commonsense approach toward funding of the critical harbor deepening projects at our nation’s ports now that earmarks are a thing of the past. The new funding method being created in this bill will help ensure taxpayers across America receive the best value for their hard-earned dollars. “In President Obama’s FY 12 budget submission to Congress, the Savannah Port did not receive adequate funding and the Charleston Port was completely forgotten. This created an unfair situation to both states. Under the new provisions in this bill, no longer will our harbor deepening efforts be held hostage by the President’s budget submission to Congress. “We realize our states must have the infrastructure in place to ensure the billions of dollars in goods and products manufactured in our states can be exported throughout the world. Likewise, every other state in the nation also relies on our ports to export their goods and products. We must work together to ensure our states and region are not left behind after expansion of the Panama Canal. “The job creation and positive economic impact of expanding both ports is clear, not just for our individual states, but for the entire region and the nation. We will continue to do all that we can to help in this partnership at the federal level between Georgia, South Carolina and our surrounding states. We also praise the collaboration and hard work of South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley and Georgia Governor Nathan Deal in seeing to it that the harbors in the Charleston and Savannah ports are deepened and ready for the larger ships. ” ####
12.16.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said provisions he introduced have been included in the year-end spending bill Congress will soon debate. The provisions are a major breakthrough which will allow Charleston to be eligible for additional federal funding to continue its harbor deepening study. “Under the old system, South Carolina was shut out because we were not included in the President’s 2012 budget,” said Graham. “Now, as a result of my language, Charleston will be eligible to receive federal funding to continue our deepening study. Until the study is complete we cannot transition into actual construction on deepening the harbor. We essentially had no chance to compete for funding. These changes in federal law will give us the opportunity to move forward.” Earlier this week the Army Corp of Engineers said they expected the harbor deepening process to not be completed until 2024. Graham agreed with the South Carolina State Ports Authority President and CEO Jim Newsome who said the 2024 timeline is too slow and pledged to work with the Army Corps and Ports Authority to expedite the process. “Deepening Charleston Harbor is the number-one issue for South Carolina’s economy,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “The Port of Charleston is our economic gateway to the world. That’s why I have long believed that when it comes to deepening Charleston Harbor, failure is simply not an option.” Under the provision affecting Charleston Harbor Deepening: Funding for ongoing Army Corp of Engineer projects, specifically coastal and deep draft studies -- which were not included in the President’s budget submission to Congress -- will be eligible to receive up to $10 million. The federal share of the Charleston Harbor deepening study, which will be matched by the state, is expected to cost approximately $4.2 million in the next fiscal year. Priority in allocating these funds are given to completing or accelerating ongoing studies that will enhance economic development, job growth and international competitiveness. “Today, about one out of every five jobs in South Carolina is tied – directly and indirectly – to the operation of the Port,” said Graham. “Deepening the port will allow us to keep these jobs in our state and also create more jobs in the future. We are moving to a more merit-based approach to port deepening and I’m confident Charleston will fare well under that new standard. Charleston port deepening offers the taxpayer the biggest bang for their buck.” Graham also thanked Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee), Dianne Feinstein (D-California) and all the members of the Senate Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee for their assistance in agreeing to push forward with this important change in committee. “It would not have been possible without bipartisan cooperation,” said Graham. “I’m proud that other members of the committee listened to the concerns that were raised and allowed us to come up with a proposal to allow port studies like Charleston to move forward.” Charleston was also fully funded to maintain its current operations which maximizes full utilization of the harbor. $13,569,000 was allocated for the Charleston Harbor and $5,301,000 was allocated for the Cooper River, Charleston Harbor. Graham noted that similar provisions he secured in the bill will also have positive impact on South Carolina’s ports like Georgetown, the Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway and coastal communities which continue to face erosion problems. They will be eligible for funding in various areas including a $74 million account for commercial harbor maintenance, $39.5 million for shore protection, $30 million for small harbor maintenance, $74 million for navigation, and $30 million for inland waterways. Graham was also able to include a provision that directs the Institute for Water Resources to submit to the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations within 180 days of enactment of this act a report on how the Congress should address the critical need for additional port and inland waterway modernization to accommodate post-Panamax vessels. “It’s imperative that we have a national vision if we are going to implement our national goal of doubling exports by 2015,” concluded Graham. #####
12.14.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said a far-reaching and historic advance for the National Guard’s role in the nation’s defense and security structure is likely to pass Congress and soon be sent to President Obama for signing into law. Graham noted the conferees on the annual Defense Authorization Bill have agreed to give the National Guard its first seat on the nation’s highest military council, the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Graham worked on the effort with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont). Leahy and Graham serve as the co-chairs of the Senate’s 84-member National Guard Caucus. “We stand on the verge of historic change as the National Guard takes its rightful place as a full, permanent member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,” said Graham. “Since 9/11, the Guard and Reserve have been indispensable to fighting the War on Terror and protecting the homeland. They have been called up to duty, taken away from their work and families, and sent to far-away lands for long tours to protect our nation. Their voices need to be heard and they have earned a seat at the table where our most important military decisions are made. This long-overdue change in policy is a fitting tribute to our citizen-soldiers and the sacrifices they have made on our nation’s behalf.” Graham also noted final version of the defense bill also includes other major provisions of The National Guard Empowerment and State-National Defense Integration Act (S.1025) authored by Graham and Leahy. They include: reestablishing the position of the Vice Chief of the Guard Bureau at the three-star level; increasing the number of Guard general officers considered for senior positions at U.S. Northern Command; helping to clarify the disaster response command relationship among the Guard and the U.S. military commands; authorizing the National Guard State Partnership Program; and requiring reports by the Department of Defense and the Government Accountability Office on the cost of National Guard and Reserve units compared to similar active component units. The legislation was endorsed by the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the National Governors Association, the National Guard Association of the United States, the Adjutants General Association of the United States, and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States. What They’re Saying about the Graham-Leahy National Guard Provisions South Carolina Adjutant General MG Bob Livingston: “This is a great day for our nation and our military. We face difficult times in terms of the variety and magnitude of foreign threats while dealing the reality of limited resources. The inclusion of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau on the Joint Chiefs of Staff brings the Citizen Soldier to the discussion. The Citizen Soldier has proven himself to be the innovator with civilian skills, the tie to the community and the proven hardened combat troop that is so critical in these tough times. This tradition of citizen responsibility is one of the essential threads in the fabric of our nation. It has made our nation great and will propel us into the future. The appointment of the Chief of the National Guard is a return to the basic values of our county and will pave the way to great innovation in the defense of our nation.” General Craig McKinley, USAF, chief of the National Guard Bureau: “If passed, the 2012 Defense Authorization Bill would have a significant impact on the National Guard and our Nation as a whole. It will ensure our civilian leaders have the best possible insight regarding the National Guard's homeland defense and civil support missions. It's also important to acknowledge members of Congress, and particularly Senators Patrick Leahy and Lindsey Graham of the National Guard Caucus, for their outstanding leadership and support on behalf of the more than 460,000 Soldiers and Airmen of the National Guard." Major General Gus L. Hargett Jr. (ret.), president of the National Guard Association of the United States: “National Guardsmen everywhere owe so much to Senator Leahy and Senator Graham for their efforts to give us a voice at the Pentagon. Their support, their leadership and their determination have the Guard on the cusp of its biggest legislative victory Guard since the Militia Act of 1903 created the modern, dual-mission National Guard.” Chief Master Sergeant Roger Hagan (ret.), president of the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States: “The Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States is once again indebted to Senator Patrick Leahy and Senator Lindsey Graham for their victory in successfully attaching language to the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act conference report that will FINALLY make the Chief of the National Guard Bureau a full-fledged member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The over 412,000 enlisted personnel in the National Guard will directly benefit by having their voice heard loud and clear as the Chief of the NGB will soon be empowered to speak for them as part of the JCS.” # # # # # Graham Audio Discussing National Guard Legislation
12.09.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is calling for a congressional investigation into collaboration between the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) and the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM) union against The Boeing Company’s decision to build a second 787 Dreamliner production facility in North Charleston, South Carolina. Graham’s announcement comes after the NLRB announced it will drop its complaint against Boeing. Graham also reaffirmed today he will continue to place an indefinite Senate hold on nominations to the NLRB Board. Beginning in January 2012, the NLRB will have just two members. The Supreme Court last year ruled that an agency board with just two members lacks the authority to issue case rulings. NLRB Dropping Case against Boeing: “For the sake of the Boeing South Carolina workers, I’m pleased to hear the frivolous complaint that has put a cloud over their operations has been lifted. However, it’s hard to celebrate an event which never should have happened.” Congressional Probe into Possible NLRB-Union Collaboration against Boeing: “I have real concerns the NLRB complaint was used as a negotiating tool against Boeing. It would be completely unacceptable for the NLRB, which is supposed to be an independent arbiter, to be used and help in the union’s bidding. “If this turns out to be the case, the NLRB would have abandoned its role as an agency that arbitrates disputes and become an advocacy group for union causes. And few things would do more damage to job creation than having a government agency abuse its power and unfairly alter sound decisions made by business. “I find the whole episode between the Machinists union and the NLRB against Boeing highly suspicious. We have already seen NLRB communications, made available by a Freedom of Information Act, which shows the NLRB had a callous and negative attitude against Boeing’s decision to open a South Carolina facility. “A congressional investigation to answer questions about the NLRB’s role, attitude, and relationship with the parties is definitely warranted. I would urge the appropriate Senate committees to look closely into this matter. If the Senate refuses to act, I would strongly encourage the House of Representatives to move forward. “I’m glad the ridiculous complaint against Boeing has gone away, but there are disturbing questions about possible collaboration between the Machinists union and the NLRB against Boeing. These questions must be answered.” Indefinite Hold Against Obama Nominees to the NLRB: “I will continue to block all nominations to the NLRB until we get satisfactory answers regarding their role in this entire saga. Given its recent actions, the NLRB as inoperable could be considered progress.” #####
12.06.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) released the following statement on Pakistan: “We fully appreciate the importance of U.S. relations with Pakistan, which we believe can serve U.S. national security interests. The cross-border air action that killed 24 Pakistani soldiers was unfortunate and unintentional, and we are confident that the investigation being conducted by NATO and the U.S. military will clarify the circumstances of this terrible tragedy. We join the President and our colleagues in once again expressing our deep condolences to those who lost loved ones. “The Pakistani government’s response to these events, however, has been deeply troubling and has added to the continued deterioration of our relationship. In recent days, the government has prevented NATO supplies from entering Afghanistan through Pakistan. It has ordered U.S. intelligence officers to leave the country and disrupted their work on important national security matters. And it has boycotted an international conference in Bonn, Germany that supports peace in Afghanistan. “If these actions were not concerning enough, there were reports just this morning that the Pakistani government has allegedly decided to suspend all bilateral agreements related to counterterrorism, as part of a broader review of Pakistan’s political, diplomatic, and military relations with the United States. Such steps by the Pakistani government would mark a new low for our relationship. “The United States has been incredibly patient with Pakistan. And we have been so despite certain undeniable and deeply disturbing facts. Most importantly, Pakistani army and intelligence officials continue to support the Haqqani Network and other terrorist groups in Pakistan that are killing U.S. troops in Afghanistan, and the vast majority of the material used to make improvised explosive devices used against U.S. forces in Afghanistan originates from two fertilizer factories inside Pakistan. “The time has come for the United States to fully review its relations with Pakistan. We must assess the nature and levels of our support for Pakistan. In particular, all options regarding U.S. security and economic assistance to Pakistan must be on the table, including substantial reductions and stricter standards for performance. Most of all, U.S. policy toward Pakistan must proceed from the realistic understanding that certain actions of Pakistan’s military are contributing to the death and injury of our men and women in the military and jeopardizing our national security interests. “In light of what could be an entirely new relationship with Pakistan, the United States and our allies must develop contingency plans to ensure the continued logistical support necessary for our military operations in Afghanistan.” ###
11.29.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – The United States Senate last night approved an amendment introduced by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) giving the National Guard a seat on the nation’s highest military council, the Joint Chiefs of Staff. "I’m very pleased the Senate has voted to allow the Chief of the National Guard Bureau to become a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Guardsmen and Reservists are citizen-soldiers,” said Graham. “Since 9/11, the National Guard and Reserves have done tremendous work at home and abroad in defense of our nation. They have been called up to duty, taken away from their work and families, and sent to far-away lands for long tours to protect our nation. They have earned a seat at the table where our most important military decisions are made.” South Carolina Adjutant General MG Bob Livingston said, “This is a great day for our nation and our military. We face difficult times in terms of the variety and magnitude of foreign threats while dealing the reality of limited resources. The inclusion of the Chief of the National Guard Bureau on the Joint Chiefs of Staff brings the Citizen Soldier to the discussion. The Citizen Soldier has proven himself to be the innovator with civilian skills, the tie to the community and the proven hardened combat troop that is so critical in these tough times. This tradition of citizen responsibility is one of the essential threads in the fabric of our nation. It has made our nation great and will propel us into the future. The appointment of the Chief of the National Guard is a return to the basic values of our county and will pave the way to great innovation in the defense of our nation." The amendment, also sponsored by Senator Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) attracted 71 cosponsors, and was added by voice vote to the annual Defense Authorization bill. The Senate continues to debate the measure and a final vote is expected later this week. “The Senate vote last night was a long-overdue recognition and fitting tribute for our citizen-soldiers and the sacrifices they have made on behalf of our nation,” said Graham. “The Guard and Reserve is indispensable to fighting the War on Terror and protecting the homeland. Their voice needs to be heard.” The legislation was endorsed by the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the National Governors Association, the National Guard Association of the United States, the Adjutants General Association of the United States, and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States. ##### (Audio/Video) Graham Discusses National Guard Legislation on the Floor of the Senatehttp://youtu.be/bnGVBPzhcbY and http://youtu.be/pnfBKMogCEw
11.21.2011	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on reports the Super Committee had failed to reach agreement on a deficit reduction plan. Super Committee Failure: "This is yet another reason for the American people to lose faith in Congress. I know it is difficult to deal with our mountains of debt and unsustainable fiscal problems, but America has always accomplished great things in the face of adversity." Vote on Bowles-Simpson Deficit Commission Plan: "The Super Committee's failure to address our growing debt problems only leads to future generations living in a poorer, weaker America. "Today I call on President Obama to embrace the Bowles-Simpson plan. I also urge the Democratic leadership in the Senate and Republican leadership in the House to bring the Commission report up for a vote. "Like any serious plan to address our nation's long-term fiscal health, the Bowles-Simpson plan has many provisions which give me heartburn. And while the Bowles-Simpson framework may not be perfect, it is better than the status quo. On balance, the plan begins to make the necessary changes which will address the fiscal calamity we are facing. "The time has also come for President Obama to be involved, not as an observer, but as a leader. He should call on the Senate and House to schedule votes on the Bowles-Simpson proposal." #####
11.16.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he supports efforts prohibiting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac executives from receiving millions in bonuses as long as the government-backed mortgage companies remain in federal conservatorship. A total of $12.79 million in bonuses was recently approved by the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). “No one at Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac seems to understand that the mismanagement of these agencies put our whole nation’s economy at risk. Taxpayers have already spent billions of dollars subsidizing Fannie and Freddie’s very poor business decisions. Now is certainly not the time to be handing out million dollar bonuses.” Fannie and Freddie have received nearly $170 billion in federal aid since 2008. #####
11.15.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Kelly Ayotte (R-NH) today issued the following statement on the agreement reached today on detainee provisions in the Defense Authorization bill, a new version of which passed the Senate Armed Services Committee by a unanimous vote this afternoon: “Today in a unanimous 26-0 vote, the Senate Armed Services Committee reported out a new National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2012. In addition to reducing funding by $20 billion to align with the defense top-line level consistent with the Budget Control Act enacted this summer, the new NDAA includes compromise detainee policy provisions intended to address objections made by the Administration. “To be clear: These provisions do not apply to U.S. citizens. While this compromise includes many of the recommended changes and clarifications sought by the Administration, it retains critical components such as the requirement for military custody of members of al-Qaeda or its associated forces captured while participating in or planning an attack on the U.S. or its coalition partners. This requirement includes a waiver that can be used by the Secretary of Defense, as well as language ensuring that the military custody provision will not interfere with surveillance or intelligence gathering activities. The revised detainee compromise also retained requirements for the certification of transfer of detainees and prohibitions on the use of funds to construct or modify facilities in the U.S. for Guantanamo detainees. “We are encouraged by today’s unanimous vote, and look forward to debating these vital issues on the floor of the Senate when the NDAA comes up for consideration as early as this week.” #####
11.15.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON –The United States Senate is now debating the Energy and Water Appropriations bill which contains many important provisions for South Carolinas’ harbors, waterways, and coastline. Among the most notable is a provision introduced by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) which makes the Port of Charleston eligible for funding to continue its harbor deepening study. “Deepening Charleston Harbor is the number-one issue for South Carolina’s economy,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee. “The Port of Charleston is our gateway to the world. That’s why I have long believed that when it comes to deepening Charleston Harbor, failure is simply not an option. “Today, one out of every five jobs in South Carolina is tied – directly and indirectly – to the operation of the Port,” said Graham. “Deepening the port will allow us to keep these jobs in our state and also create more jobs in the future. We are moving to a more merit-based approach to port deepening and I’m confident Charleston will fare well under that new standard. Charleston port deepening offers the taxpayer the biggest bang for their buck.” Under the provision affecting Charleston Harbor Deepening: Funding for ongoing Army Corp of Engineer projects -- which were not included in the President’s budget submission to Congress -- will be eligible to receive up to $10.5 million for ongoing harbor studies. The federal share of the Charleston Harbor deepening study, which will be matched by the state, is expected to cost approximately $4.2 million in the next fiscal year. “Our new provision is a breakthrough in port funding,” said Graham. “Under the current system we are shut out because we were not included in the President’s 2012 budget. Now, Charleston will be eligible to receive federal funding to continue our deepening study. Until the study is complete we cannot transition into actual construction on deepening the harbor.” Graham noted that other provisions will also have positive impact on South Carolina’s ports like Georgetown and coastal communities which continue to face erosion problems. They will be eligible for funding in various areas including a $55 million account for commercial harbor maintenance, $40 million for shore protection, $30 million for small harbor maintenance, $22 million for navigation, and $15 million for inland navigation channel maintenance. #####
11.14.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today issued the following statement reacting to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta’s letter detailing the “devastating” impact on the Department of Defense should a sequester result from a failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to reach agreement: “On November 3rd, we wrote to Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta requesting concrete details regarding the impact to the Department of Defense of a possible sequester -- the roughly $1 trillion of mandatory cuts to defense spending that would be triggered if the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction fails to reach consensus on reducing the debt. Today, we received Secretary Panetta’s response in which the Secretary states clearly that the consequences of a sequester would be ‘devastating.’ “The immediate impact of a sequester, according to Secretary Panetta -- who previously served as Chairman of the House Budget Committee and Chief of Staff to President Bill Clinton -- could be a 23 percent across-the-board cut to our nation’s defense programs. Shipbuilding and construction contracts would have to be curtailed, and civilian personnel and contractors would have to be furloughed. The end result of these cuts after ten years would be ‘the smallest ground force since 1940, the smallest number of ships since 1915, and the smallest Air Force in its history.’ The United States would face ‘substantial risk of not being able to meet our defense needs.’ “The consequence of a sequester on the Defense Department would set off a swift decline of the United States as the world’s leading military power. We are staunchly opposed to this draconian action. This is not an outcome that we can live with, and it is certainly not one that we should impose on ourselves. The sequester is a threat to the national security interests of the United States, and it should not be allowed to occur.” ##### Click here to view Secretary Panetta’s letter and fact sheet.
11.11.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Chris Coons led the Senate on the eve of Veterans Day in passing a bill to help deployed service members and their spouses who are being unintentionally prevented from finalizing their green card application process because of military service abroad. On Thursday evening, the Senators secured passage by voice vote of H.R. 398, the House version of their Senate bill (S. 1808) already introduced by Rep. Zoe Lofgren (D-CA-16). Senate passage of the House bill means that it will be cleared for President Obama to sign into law as soon as next week. Currently, aliens who marry a U.S. citizen or permanent resident can obtain permanent residency themselves after a two-year waiting period. In the 90 days before the end of those two years, both spouses must jointly sign a petition for permanent residency and appear for an in-person interview. Members of the armed forces who are deployed during that 90-day window are often unable to return to the United States to fulfill that requirement. H.R. 398 and S.1808 would delay the start of that 90-day window until after a service member has completed his or her deployment. “The men and women serving abroad in our nation’s armed forces have enough to worry about without having this unintended bureaucratic nightmare added to the list,” Senator Coons said. “This is an easy fix, but an important one. I’m glad my Senate colleagues came together this week to acknowledge that a military deployment should not be a barrier to accessing the rights and privilege our service members are fighting to protect.” "Our men and women in uniform continue to serve our nation with honor and distinction," Senator Graham said. "I was proud to be part of the effort to fix a bureaucratic problem facing some of our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines." Senator Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. Senator Coons is a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. #####
10.31.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Department of Energy had reversed course and agreed to allow the H-Canyon at Savannah River Site to be used to produce approximately 3.7 metric tons of plutonium oxide feedstock for the MOX facility. In President Obama’s budget submission to Congress earlier this year the Administration had proposed putting the canyon in ‘cold standby,’ likely rendering it inoperable for future use. “Earlier this year, the future of H-canyon was put very much in jeopardy by the President’s budget,” said Graham. “I have worked very closely with the Savannah River Site, the Department of Energy, and NNSA to reverse this decision and guarantee future work for H-canyon. “Allowing H-Canyon to produce the initial feedstock for MOX is most welcome news,” said Graham. “I’m pleased they have recognized the versatility of this unique asset. The use of H-Canyon will begin the process of converting weapons grade plutonium into nuclear fuel and setting a pathway for the material to ultimately leave South Carolina. As a long-time supporter of MOX, I believe it is the ultimate example of turning swords into plowshares.” The Savannah River Site’s H and F canyons played an important role in our nation’s nuclear weapons complex. Constructed in the 1950s, the versatility of the canyons were shown through their work in manufacturing components of nuclear weapons, fuel for our NASA missions, and most recently through H-canyon’s conversion of Highly Enriched Uranium (HEU) into commercial nuclear fuel. After the Cold War ended, the Department of Energy decided that they did not need two canyons and closed down F-canyon. This left H-canyon as the only facility in the country that could perform critical separations work. Graham noted that despite the canyon’s age, it still remains one of the backbones of SRS. There is a significant amount of research reactor fuel and other nuclear material that needs to be processed through the canyon. The canyon can also play an important role in developing the next generation of spent fuel recycling. “By providing feedstock for MOX, H-canyon will continue in its historical national security work,” said Graham. “It should also not preclude other work from happening in the canyon. There remains room to work on spent fuel recycling and other important missions. I look forward to continuing to work with the site, the community, and the Department of Energy as we move forward.” #####
10.31.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), the ranking Republican on the State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee, has written Secretary of State Hillary Clinton encouraging the Obama Administration to make future financial assistance to Libya in the form of loans which should be repaid to the American taxpayer. Graham noted that the United States has already frozen over $34 billion in Libyan assets and there are reports Muammar al-Qaddafi may have sheltered more than $200 billion. “We should help the Libyan people, in an appropriate manner, with the understanding the American taxpayer will be reimbursed to the fullest extent possible,” said Graham. “Muammar al-Qaddafi’s death requires the Libyan people to begin anew by developing a representative government, cultivating civil society, and rebuilding their infrastructure. The United States can and should be a partner in helping Libya with these monumental tasks. However, we should do so in a way that is mindful of both Libya’s resources and our own difficult fiscal situation.” “I truly believe one of the biggest mistakes we made in Iraq was providing all of the funds as grants, not loans,” said Graham. “I strongly encouraged the Bush Administration to adopt loans to the Iraqi government, but they refused.” “Over time this decision helped create an environment where the Iraqis did not feel financial ownership of their own reconstruction,” said Graham. “It also made our operations in Iraq significantly more expensive than they needed to be. I hope our nation will not make the same mistake twice." ##### Graham Libya Reconstruction Letter to Secretary Clinton
10.21.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on President Obama’s announcement today American troops will leave Iraq by the end of the year. “I respectfully disagree with President Obama. I feel all we have worked for, fought for, and sacrificed for is very much in jeopardy by today’s announcement. I hope I am wrong and the President is right, but I fear this decision has set in motion events that will come back to haunt our country.” #####
10.20.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the reported death of former Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi. “The Mad Dog of the Middle East is dead and the Libyan people can breathe a sigh of relief. I hope Gaddafi’s death will be the end of the killing in Libya and the beginning of building a just and civil society. “From my recent visit to Libya it was striking how much the Libyan people feared a Gaddafi return to power. Today’s actions should allow the economic and political decisions which were put on hold until he was accounted for to proceed. “Much work remains ahead for the Libyan people. Libya is trying to build a democracy out of the ashes of a dictatorship and the United States should be a helpful partner in that endeavor. The decisions made in the coming days about Libya will affect our own national security, and the security of the region, for decades to come.” #####
10.12.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) last night voted against President Obama’s $447 billion American Jobs Act. The measure needed 60 votes to advance and failed in the Senate 50-49. Graham made this statement on the vote: “President Obama’s jobs proposal was nothing more than an expansion and continuation of the policies which have made our economy worse than when he took office. Rather than changing course when it is clear his policies are not working, President Obama seems to be doubling-down. It’s why there is bipartisan opposition to his plan. Should it ever become law, President Obama’s jobs bill will prove to be as ineffective in creating jobs as Obama health care was in lowering premiums.” #####
10.11.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was very pleased the U.S. Senate, in a strong bipartisan vote of 63-35, tonight passed legislation he had introduced with Senators Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), Chuck Schumer (D-New York), and Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio) giving the United States new tools to deal with Chinese currency manipulation. The Chinese yuan is generally viewed by economists as being undervalued by up to 40 percent. Passage of the legislation comes on the heels of the Obama Administration last week expressing concerns about the bill even though he strongly supported similar legislation while campaigning for President. “I hope President Obama will be as hard on the Chinese, who are cheating Americans out of jobs, as he is on American business,” said Graham. “It is universally accepted that the Chinese intentionally manipulate their currency to create an advantage for themselves in the marketplace. Manufacturing jobs in South Carolina and across the country are being destroyed because the Chinese continue to defy the rules of international trade.” Under current law, the Treasury Department is required to identify countries that manipulate their currency for purposes of gaining an unfair competitive trade advantage. In recent years, Treasury has found that certain countries’ currencies were ‘undervalued,’ but based on a narrow interpretation of the law Treasury has refused to cite such countries as ‘manipulators.’ The Senate-passed legislation replaces that with a new framework which will require Treasury to identify misaligned currencies and imposes trade remedies if countries fail to correct the misalignment. Graham also noted that over the past week China took a rather unusual step in sending several strongly-worded messages to the United States warning of Chinese opposition to the legislation. “This vote showed we will not be bullied by China when it is clear they are in the wrong,” said Graham. “We ignored the threats and do not apologize for taking this action. I want a good trading relationship with China and think we can have a relationship which is beneficial to both countries. But the current Chinese policy on currency is clearly unfair and designed to benefit them at our expense. “Tonight’s vote was one of my most satisfying moments in Congress,” concluded Graham. “Finally, after seven years of effort, the Senate is now on record in taking steps to address Chinese currency manipulation. This is welcome news to manufacturers in South Carolina and across the nation. Now I strongly encourage the House of Representatives to take up the legislation at the soonest possible opportunity.” ##### Graham Discusses Chinese Currency Manipulation with Fox News Greta Van Susteren: http://youtu.be/oT6HQvlt4Dc Graham: Communist Chinese Dictatorship is Costing American Jobs by Manipulating its Currency: http://youtu.be/azy8WTZk034 Graham Speaks out Against Chinese Currency Manipulation on the Senate Floor: http://youtu.be/XtFg-imEoak Politico: China bill advances in the Senate: http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1011/65340.html
10.07.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) Monday announced they now have 61 Senate cosponsors of their latest “Guard Empowerment” effort, the National Guard Empowerment and State-National Defense Integration Act of 2011 (S.1025), which Leahy and Graham introduced in May. The legislation — known as Guard Empowerment II — builds on reforms made in 2008 by giving the Guard and Reserve a seat at the Pentagon’s budget and policymaking tables and updating jurisdictional and operational lines of authority. Among other changes, the bill would make the Chief of the National Guard Bureau a permanent member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; reestablish the position of the Vice Chief of the Guard Bureau at the three-star level; enhance the Guard’s representation at the senior levels of U.S. Northern Command; and help clarify the disaster response command relationship among the Guard and the U.S. military commands. The legislation is endorsed by the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, the National Governors Association, the National Guard Association of the United States, the Adjutants General Association of the United States, and the Enlisted Association of the National Guard of the United States. Leahy said, “Today, at home and abroad, we are asking the Guard to take on more responsibilities than ever. The Guard has grown to become a front-line, 21st Century force, but it is trapped in a 20th Century Pentagon bureaucracy. We need to clear away those cobwebs and give the Guard a voice in the Pentagon that is commensurate to the scale of its missions here and overseas.” Graham said, “Guardsmen and Reservists are citizen-soldiers. During the War on Terror, they have been called up to duty, taken away from their work and families, and sent to far-away lands for long tours in protection of our nation. We need to ensure the Guard and Reserves have a seat at the table when the important decisions affecting our national security are made.” Leahy and Graham co-chair the Senate National Guard Caucus, the Senate’s largest caucus and one of its most active on matters of defense and national security. Having reached the critical 60-vote threshold, both senators expect that Empowerment II will receive consideration as an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2012 National Defense Authorization Act. In addition to Leahy and Graham, the senators who have cosponsored the bill so far are Senators Daniel Akaka (D-Hawaii), Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Kelly Ayotte (R-N.H.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), Mark Begich (D-Alaska), Michael Bennet (D-Colo.), Jeff Bingaman (D-N.M.), Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), Roy Blunt (R-Mo.), John Boozman (R-Ark.), Barbara Boxer (D-Calif.), Scott Brown (R-Mass.), Sherrod Brown (D-Ohio), Richard Burr (R-N.C.), Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), Benjamin Cardin (D-Md.), Thomas Carper (D-Del.), Robert Casey (D-Pa.), Daniel Coats (R-Ind.), Kent Conrad (D-N.D.), Christopher Coons (D-Del.), Bob Corker (R-Tenn.), Richard Durbin (D-Ill.), Michael Enzi (R-Wyo.), Dianne Feinstein (D-Calif.), Al Franken (D-Minn.), Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Kay Hagan (D-N.C.), Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), Dean Heller (R-Nev.), John Hoeven (R-N.D.), Tim Johnson (D-S.D.), Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.), Mary Landrieu (D-La.), Frank Lautenberg (D-N.J.), Mike Lee (R-Utah), Richard Lugar (R-Ind.), Joe Manchin (D-W.V.), Claire McCaskill (D-Mo.), Robert Menendez (D-N.J.), Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.), Jerry Moran (R-Kan.), Patty Murray (D-Wash.), Mark Pryor (D-Ark.), James Risch (R-Idaho), Pat Roberts (R-Kan.), John D. Rockefeller IV (D-W.V.), Bernard Sanders (I-Vt.), Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.)*, Jeanne Shaheen (D-N.H.), Olympia Snowe (R-Maine), Debbie Stabenow (D-Mich.), Jon Tester (D-Mont.), Mark Udall (D-Colo.)*, David Vitter (R-La.), Mark Warner (D-Va.), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-R.I.), and Ron Wyden (D-Ore.). *These senators have been added as cosponsors of S.1025 as of October 3, 2011, but will not appear in the Congressional Record until October 4, 2011. # # # # #
10.04.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement in response to criticism from the Chinese government’s Central Bank, Foreign Ministry and Ministry of Commerce over Senate legislation to crack down on Chinese currency manipulation. Last night, the Senate voted to proceed to debate on legislation cracking down on Chinese currency manipulation. The procedural vote was 79-19. The Senate continues to debate the legislation today. Graham said: “China’s threats to the United States Senate should fall on deaf ears. We should be examining their business practices, not their rhetoric. China should be rewarded and engaged when they play fair and we should push back when they continue to cheat. “The Chinese government’s criticism of our efforts to bring about long-overdue currency reform is ill-advised. We all want a healthy trading relationship with China, but their business practices – from intellectual property theft to currency manipulation, has created an unhealthy business relationship. “China’s pegging of the yuan to the dollar and keeping it consistently undervalued continues to create a competitive advantage for the Chinese. China has too big of an economy to allow them to continue creating an unfair trade advantage. Chinese currency manipulation has resulted in 2 million jobs being lost in the United States and over 40,000 in South Carolina. China must stop cheating.” #####
09.30.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was very pleased that the Department of Veterans Affairs has completed the negotiations and signed the contract to construct a new VA outpatient clinic in Greenville. “South Carolina has one of the highest percentages of veterans of any state in the nation,” said Graham. “With an aging population, we need to ensure they are able to receive the treatment and care they have earned.” Facts on the new facility: The new one-story facility costs $3.8 million and will be constructed on approximately 3.2 acres of land in accordance with Veterans Health Administration specifications and the state of South Carolina requirements. The new clinic when completed will have over 50,000 square feet of clinic space and more than 380 parking spaces. The new clinic which replaces the existing clinic located at 3510 Augusta Road, will allow for approximately 16,000 additional Veterans to receive their healthcare. The new clinic site will include state of the art equipment, as well as additional staffing to ensure that Veterans receive the very best care, treatment and services. The new clinic will continue to offer Primary Care, Mental Health, and some specialty services. The anticipated date of occupancy at the new site is the spring of 2013. #####
09.23.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham will participate in the coin-toss before the Florida State-Clemson game tomorrow to celebrate the 100th birthday of Ronald Reagan, the 40th President of the United States. This weekend Clemson University will be among the nearly 5,000 high school, college, and NFL teams across the United States who will be participating in the Ronald Reagan Centennial National Football Coin Toss. The coin toss will use a special Ronald Reagan Centennial Commemorative Coin bearing the President’s image. Additional information on the Reagan Centennial coin-toss is available online at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library and Foundation. #### FOOTBALL AND RONALD REAGAN Ronald Reagan was a guard for the North Dixon (Illinois) Dukes high school. He would later write in his memoirs that, “filling out one of those purple and white jerseys became the noblest and most glamorous goal in my life.” In college, he played guard and also punted for the Eureka College Red Devils. In 1932, Ronald Reagan was a broadcaster for the University of Iowa Hawkeyes. Soon, he transferred to sister station WHO in Des Moines, Iowa, and was promoted to be a regular announcer for the station. He would later write, “for a twenty-one year old fresh out of college, broadcasting the Big Ten games was like dream.” Ronald Reagan recalled in his memoirs that one of his most memorable games during his college football announcing career was one in which Gerald Ford played Center for the University of Michigan. Ronald Reagan’s first film was playing a radio announcer in Love Is on the Air, which jumpstarted his acting career. In Hollywood, he played the role of Notre Dame legend, George “The Gipper” Gipp in the film Knute Rockne, All American; (1940) from it, he acquired the lifelong nickname, “The Gipper.” President Reagan taped a public service announcement about college football http://www.youtube.com/reaganfoundation#p/a/u/1/3XyZnpAagzA. In 1983, the American Football Coaches Association (AFCA) bestowed upon President Reagan the prestigious Tuss McLaughry Award. The Tuss McLaughry Award, established in 1964, is given to a distinguished American (or Americans) for the highest distinction in service to others. It is named in honor of DeOrmond "Tuss" McLaughry, the first full-time secretary-treasurer of the AFCA and one of the most dedicated and influential members in the history of the Association. In 1985, President Reagan flipped the coin for Super Bowl XIX via video from the White House http://www.youtube.com/reaganfoundation#p/a/u/0/xkB1hiUyWqc In 1987, President Reagan signed into law legislation that allowed the AFCA to set up a qualified pension plan. Then-president of AFCA, Lavell Edwards of Brigham Young, called the signing, “One of the most significant events in the 65-year history of the Association.” In 1990 President Reagan received the Theodore Roosevelt Award, the National Collegiate Athletic Association's (NCAA) highest honor to recognize an individual for whom competitive athletics in college and attention to physical well-being thereafter have been important factors in a distinguished career of national significance and achievement.
09.22.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his support for Sen. Ron Johnson’s (R-Wisconsin) candidacy for Vice Chair of the Senate Republican Conference. “Ron will be a great addition to our leadership team. He’s a sincere, hardworking member of the Senate who represents the spirit of the 2010 elections. Ron is a new, fresh voice not attached to the old fights in Washington and will provide great common-sense advice to our leadership. His years of experience in business will serve him well in this position. I’m proud to support his candidacy.” #####
09.21.2011	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John Barrasso (R-Wyoming) today introduced the Medicaid Flexibility for States Act to allow states to ‘Opt-Out' of Obamacare's costly expansion of Medicaid. Barrasso and Graham noted Medicaid in its current form is crushing the states financially. The expansion called for under Obamacare will exacerbate the problem. Obamacare will add 17 million new people to the Medicaid rolls beginning in 2014. States are already proposing serious cutbacks in provider reimbursement and services not mandated by the federal government to deal with growing budget shortfalls. "I'm confident that if given the chance a large number of states would opt-out of Obamacare's forced Medicaid expansion," said Graham. "In South Carolina, expansion of Medicaid under Obamacare will add an additional $1 billion in state matching funding requirements. When fully implemented nearly 30 percent of South Carolinians will be eligible for Medicaid. States like South Carolina can simply not afford this burden. Our bill takes the issue out of Washington and puts it back in the states. I would hope every Senator, regardless of party, would give the people of their home state a chance to be heard." "The President's one-size-fits all health care policy is not the right prescription for our states," said Barrasso. "The Medicaid expansion is crushing state budgets. Governors realize that in order to deal with this unprecedented mandate, they will have to take money away from education and other important public services. States deserve to have the flexibility, freedom and choice to make decisions about how best to help the people in their own state. Giving them the choice to opt-out of the Medicaid expansion provides states the opportunity to provide people with the care they need from the doctors they want at prices they can afford." #####
09.20.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the United States Senate’s unanimous confirmation of Judge Timothy M. Cain to serve on the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. “I am tremendously pleased that the Senate unanimously confirmed Tim Cain to be a federal judge for the state of South Carolina. Tim possesses a great combination of intellect, integrity, common sense, and judicial demeanor that will serve the people of South Carolina well. Judge Cain is one of the most experienced and talented lawyers I have ever had the pleasure to know. His ten years of experience as a family court judge dealing with some of the most complicated and emotional issues in the law have prepared him well to serve as a Federal District Court Judge. I cannot be prouder of this nomination.” ####
09.19.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement in response to President Obama’s speech detailing his debt reduction plan, which raises taxes on job creators. “The President’s $1.5 trillion dollar tax increase on investors, job creators, and American business is poorly-timed, ill-conceived, and dead on arrival,” Graham said. “Our economy desperately needs to grow so more Americans can get back to work. Tax increases on job creators, like President Obama is proposing, will be a death blow to any recovery. “Our tax code needs to be reformed. I support tax code simplification which combines lower rates with the elimination of deductions and loopholes. “However, increasing tax burdens on job creators is the last thing we ought to do in a weak economy. The President’s 1.5 trillion tax increase will certainly make it more difficult to grow the economy and create jobs.” ####
09.15.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released the following statement on passage through the House of Representatives of H.R. 2587, Protecting Jobs from Government Interference Act, introduced by Congressman Tim Scott (R-South Carolina). Graham has introduced the legislation in the United States Senate, S. 1523. “Unelected bureaucrats at the NLRB should not be able to shut the doors on the $1 billion Boeing plant in North Charleston,” said Graham. “Congratulations to Congressman Tim Scott and the South Carolina congressional delegation for their hard work passing this legislation through the House. I have introduced it in the Senate and will continue to press Harry Reid to bring it up for a vote.” ####
09.09.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said a new provision placed in the Senate Energy & Water Appropriations bill could be a breakthrough for next year’s funding of the Charleston Harbor Post-45 Deepening effort. Graham is a member of the Appropriations Committee and worked to include the language which passed through committee. Under the provision affecting Charleston Harbor Deepening: Funding for ongoing Army Corp of Engineer projects -- which were not included in the President’s budget submission to Congress -- will be eligible to apply for and receive up to $10.5 million for ongoing harbor studies. The South Carolina State Ports Authority, along with other ports from across the country, will be eligible to submit an application requesting funding for their project. The Army Corp of Engineers will make the final determination on which ports receive funding and the amount. “This is a breakthrough for Fiscal Year 2012 funding on the Port of Charleston,” said Graham. “It does not solve all our future funding issues, but it will allow us to keep making progress over the next year.” “Under the old system, we would have been shut out because we were not included in the President’s budget,” said Graham. “Now, Charleston will have the opportunity to apply for and receive funding from this account to continue our deepening study. Without the study, we can’t design and begin actual construction on a deeper harbor. “At the end of the day, Charleston Harbor deepening is about jobs,” said Graham. “Today, one out of every five jobs in South Carolina is tied – directly and indirectly – to the operation of the Port. Deepening the port will allow us to keep these jobs in our state and also create jobs in the future. That’s why I have long believed that when it comes to deepening Charleston Harbor, failure is simply not an option.” Graham also thanked Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-California) and Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee) for their assistance in helping push forward with this important change in committee. “It would not have been possible without bipartisan cooperation,” said Graham. “I’m proud that other members of the committee listened to the concerns that were raised and allowed us to come up with a proposal to allow port studies like Charleston to move forward.” The Army Corp of Engineers Charleston Harbor study began in June is expected to cost up to $20 million and take up to five years to complete. The federal government will supply half of the funding and the other half will come from the South Carolina State Ports Authority. Graham also said the committee passed language requiring the Army Corp of Engineers to submit to the Senate Appropriations Committee their ‘national vision’ on how our nations’ ports should handle the post-Panamax vessels that currently transit the Suez Canal and will soon advantage of the Panama Canal Expansion. The Corp has 180 days to complete the report and send it back to the committee. The committee also included language providing $30 million for harbor maintenance funding and $15 million for Inland Channel Navigation Maintenance. The Georgetown port will be eligible to apply for and receive funding from these sources to meet their dredging needs. #####
09.07.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ) and Joe Lieberman (I-CT) today released the following statement regarding media reports that the Obama Administration has sharply reduced the number of U.S. troops it is considering for the post-2011 security force in Iraq: “We are deeply troubled by media reports that the Obama Administration has sharply reduced the number of U.S. troops it is proposing for the post-2011 security force in Iraq to approximately 3,000. This is dramatically lower than what our military leaders have consistently told us over the course of repeated visits to Iraq that they require, and that is needed to support Iraq in safeguarding the hard-won gains that our two nations have achieved at such great cost. In particular, we are very concerned by the prospect that a follow-on force might lack the capabilities and authorities necessary to help Iraqis ensure stability across the disputed territories in northern Iraq, which we consider an essential mission. We urge the Administration to work urgently with Iraqi authorities to reach an agreement that reflects the best military advice of U.S. commanders on the ground and allows the U.S. to safeguard our national interest in Iraq's stability.” #####
08.22.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today released the following statement regarding the end of the Qadaffi regime in Libya is in Libya: “The end of the Qadaffi regime in Libya is a victory for the Libyan people and for the broader cause of freedom in the Middle East and throughout the world. This achievement was made possible first and foremost by the struggle and sacrifice of countless Libyans, whose courage and perseverance we applaud. We also commend our British, French, and other allies, as well as our Arab partners, especially Qatar and the UAE, for their leadership in this conflict. Americans can be proud of the role our country has played in helping to defeat Qaddafi, but we regret that this success was so long in coming due to the failure of the United States to employ the full weight of our airpower. “The uprising in Libya was inspired by the peaceful protest movements that succeeded in toppling long-ruling autocratic regimes in Tunisia and Egypt earlier this year. But while Presidents Mubarak and Ben Ali left office quickly, Qaddafi adopted a radically different approach – attempting to preserve his regime by unleashing the most brutal possible violence. Qaddafi's fall should now send a clear message to dictators throughout the region and beyond that this strategy will fail. In particular, that is a lesson for Bashar al Assad, and we are confident that his regime will soon join Qaddafi's on the ash heap of history. “We also recognize that, while Qaddafi is gone, much of the hard work of consolidating a real and sustainable transition to democracy in Libya still lies ahead. The Libyan people have won their freedom, but now they must build the durable institutions necessary to keep it, including a transparent and inclusive political process, a free and independent media, an impartial system of justice and the rule of law, a free economy, and unified, professionalized security forces that answer to civilian authority. In addition, it will be essential in the days ahead for Libyan authorities to do everything necessary to prevent acts of revenge or retribution, and to begin the difficult but vital process of national reconciliation. “While Libya's future will of course be made by the Libyan people themselves, the United States must lead the international community to provide the support that our Libyan friends need. We must remain engaged with the Transitional National Council and move expeditiously to release the assets of the Qaddafi regime so they can be used for the benefit of the Libyan people and the reconstruction of the country. The community of democratic nations must also provide technical advice and assistance, as requested by the Transitional National Council, to help Libya organize free and fair nationwide elections and to begin the process of drafting a new democratic constitution that protects the rights of all Libyans. These will be indispensible steps in Libya’s transition to democracy. “Ultimately, our intervention in Libya will be judged a success or failure based not on the collapse of the Qaddafi regime, but on the political order that emerges in its place. Today marks a big step forward for the Libyan people towards freedom and democracy. As they continue on this journey, America must continue to stand with them.” ####
08.18.2011	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Joe Lieberman (I-Connecticut) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today released the following statement applauding President Obama for calling on Bashar al Assad to leave power in Syria, and urging other nations to also call for and take action to end the Assad regime: "We applaud President Obama for calling on Bashar al Assad to leave power, a position we have long argued should be the policy of the United States. "Assad has been given every last chance to respond to the peaceful demands of the Syrian people for change, and he has squandered them all. Instead he has shown that he is wedded to the path of violence, trying to remain in power by slaughtering civilian protesters. It is critical that Assad not be allowed to prevail. "We urge other nations to join the United States in demanding an end to the Assad regime, whose legitimacy is clearly exhausted. We also hope that other tangible actions will be taken as soon as possible, in coordination with our friends and partners around the world, to support the democratic transition that the Syrian people are risking and losing their lives to achieve. "In particular, we hope the EU will join the U.S. in banning petroleum imports from Syria and imposing sanctions on the Syrian energy sector, which could have a crippling effect on the Assad regime. We also hope that the Turkish government will use its considerable economic and diplomatic leverage to support the people of Syria against the Assad regime at this critical moment. Lastly, we believe that a binding UN Security Council resolution imposing meaningful sanctions is more necessary and urgent than ever." ###
08.03.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of Judge Matthew Perry. “It was a tremendous pleasure and honor to have known Judge Matthew Perry. More than anything else he was a kind and decent man who helped navigate our state through some of its most difficult challenges. “Judge Perry was an effective civil rights advocate who firmly stood his ground, and was able to bring people together to allow our state to move forward. He dispensed justice in an even-handed manner and was one of the most respected jurists in South Carolina history. “What he fought for many take for granted today. And when it’s all said and done, Judge Matthew Perry will be considered one of the most influential South Carolinians in modern history.” ####
08.02.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against the compromise debt-limit agreement negotiated between congressional leaders and President Obama. The measure passed the Senate 74-26. Graham said: “I cannot in good conscience support this deal. Simply stated, it locks us into more debt, bigger government and most devastating of all, a weakened Defense infrastructure at a time when threats to our nation are increasing, not decreasing. “This agreement still adds over $7 trillion in new debt over the next decade and only makes small reductions in future spending. We hardly address the future growth of entitlements, a major contributor of future budgetary problems. “I fear we will see that this agreement does not really move the needle when it comes to reducing government spending. Instead of our nation running toward bankruptcy we will be walking toward bankruptcy. “The only part of our nation’s budget which is really exposed to serious consequences is the Department of Defense. Their budget could be reduced by nearly $1 trillion under this plan. And if these proposed cuts ever become reality, the biggest loser will be our men and women in uniform. “I firmly believe defense spending should be placed under a microscope and we can find savings. However, this agreement places Defense on the chopping block and slowly moves the Republican Party away from the Reagan model of a strong national defense. I fear it legitimizes the concept that Defense spending is not only equal to other areas of federal spending, but is of lesser importance. “I always believed we have to raise our nation’s debt-ceiling but should do so in a responsible manner. I strongly supported Cut, Cap and Balance and will continue to work for passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. I thought we could have raised the debt-ceiling for a period of nine months, the historical average since 1940, accompanied by a dollar-to-dollar spending cut to debt-ceiling increase while we work to enact these important structural changes to the way the government operates. “The debt-limit debate offered us a prime opportunity to finally stop kicking the can down the road and bring discipline to the way Congress spends. Because of our $14.5 trillion and growing national debt, we are in jeopardy of losing the American Dream where children are able to do better than their parents.” #####
08.01.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he will oppose the compromise debt-limit agreement negotiated between congressional leaders and President Obama. Graham said: “I cannot in good conscience support this deal. Simply stated, it locks us into more debt, bigger government and most devastating of all, a weakened defense infrastructure at a time when we face growing threats. “This agreement adds over $7 trillion in new debt over the next decade and only makes small reductions in future spending. We hardly address the future growth of entitlements, a major contributor of future budgetary problems. Instead of our nation running toward bankruptcy we will be walking toward bankruptcy. “If fully implemented, the consequences to our nation’s defense infrastructure would be severe. And these deep cuts would come at a time when threats to our nation are increasing, not declining. What has happened to the Party of Reagan who viewed the primary purpose of the federal government was to provide a strong national defense? “This agreement legitimizes the concept that defense spending is not only equal to other areas of federal spending, but is of lesser importance. This is a philosophical shift I will have no part of. \“I fear this agreement will destroy our nation’s defense infrastructure at a time when we need them the most. The only part of our nation’s budget which is really exposed to serious consequences under this compromise is the Department of Defense. “I have always believed we have to raise our nation’s debt-ceiling but it should be done in a responsible manner. I support raising the debt-ceiling for a period of nine months, the historical average since 1940, accompanied by a dollar-to-dollar spending cuts to debt-ceiling increase. In effect, this basically is the first portion of the Boehner-Reid proposal.” #####
07.26.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he opposes the debt-limit plan put forth by Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Ohio). “Unfortunately, I cannot in good conscience support the Boehner proposal in its current construct,” said Graham. “The Boehner proposal, no matter how well-intentioned, will be a straight-jacket on real spending reform. “It locks in spending levels well beyond what our nation can afford,” said Graham. “It also makes it much more difficult for Congress to enact structural reforms like passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment. I also have little hope that yet another joint committee of Congress will bring about real change. I believe it will be seen as yet another attempt to avoid the hard choices.” Graham noted areas of concern with the proposal: Spending in Fiscal Year 2012 is only reduced by $7 billion under the Boehner plan. By contrast, the Cut, Cap and Balance legislation reduced spending by more than $100 billion in FY 2012. Over the next decade, if the Boehner plan worked perfectly, it would only reduce spending by $3 trillion. During that same timeframe the United States will add at least another $6-7 trillion in new debt. The credit rating agencies have recently sounded the warning and said the United States needs a minimum of $4 trillion in spending reductions in the next decade to maintain our AAA rating. “The credit ratings agencies have made it clear its time to get our nation’s spending problems under control,” said Graham. “The Boehner proposal only makes minor reductions in spending in the short-term.” “The time has come for us to break the cycle of Washington spending binges and bring discipline to the system,” said Graham. “I believe we have a mandate to stop binge spending and reform the federal government in a manner to ensure we do not become Greece." “We have to stop kicking the can down the road,” said Graham. “The only hope to bring about structural change is to require passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment accompanied by real and meaningful cuts and caps on spending in the near term.” ####
07.18.2011	Tate Zeigler (202) 224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. President Obama's warning to Republicans that he will take the debt limit debate to the American people is music to my ears. Mr. President, I do not fear such a debate. Quite frankly, I welcome it. While I disagree with President Obama on many issues regarding our current fiscal situation, I do agree with him we should give the American people a voice in this matter. It's their voices that are missing and through their voices Congress and the President will get the direction we sorely need. Do Americans really want to pass onto future generations ever increasing loads of debt, much of it owed to creditors in China? Or do Americans want us to begin making the tough choices needed to get our financial house in order? Piling new stacks of debt on top of the mountain-sized piles we already have serves nobody's interests. There is only one change that would overhaul the dynamics of Washington spending. Congress must pass a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution and send it to the states for ratification. While President Obama does not believe we need the discipline of a Balanced Budget Amendment, I do. Our nation is now borrowing 40 cents of every dollar we spend. What rational person could ever think Congress will do the hard things required to balance the budget given our history for the last forty years? Through my years in the House of Representatives and Senate I have consistently voted for and worked toward the passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment. In 1995, I took to the House floor to ask, "What does it mean when you are $4.5 trillion-plus in debt? The honest answer is I cannot even imagine that money in real terms. The real serious consequences of spending that much money more than you have is that over time you ruin the character of your people. Over time, everybody in the country begins to look to the Federal Government to solve every problem they have." Four years ago, when our nation was $9 trillion in debt, I introduced a Balanced Budget Amendment with my South Carolina colleague Senator Jim DeMint. And this year, with our nation over $14 trillion in debt, I'm working with Senator Mike Lee of Utah in another effort to pass this much-needed and long-overdue reform. From my experience, I do not believe either party has the will to bring about a balanced budget. Forty-nine states already have requirements to produce a balanced budget. These states all know that the only way to sustain a balanced budget each year is put tough rules in place. Balanced budget requirements work in the states, the great laboratories of our democracy, and it will work in Washington. It is clear special interest politics on both the left and right grow stronger every year. Balancing the budget will require both parties to make hard choices such as controlling the growth of entitlements, reforming an out-of-control tax code, putting defense spending under a microscope, and finally having to say no to people when it comes to federal spending. The reason Congress and the President are never able to achieve consensus on the hard choices is that under the present construct, we're not required to do so. Every hard issue is looked at through the prism of how it affects the next election, not how it affects the country. That dynamic must change. Last Friday, I was encouraged when the House decided to consider the Cut, Cap, and Balance legislation. This week, the House vote will build momentum behind a plan that will set our country on the right path. All elected officials should rally behind this concept as it raises the debt limit while beginning to address the problems posed by our long-term structural debt. Passage of Cut, Cap and Balance into law is a winning strategy for our nation. However, since President Obama refuses to support Cut, Cap and Balance he should present his own plan. Thus far, the President has only spoken in generalities, not specifics. He tells us what he's against, not what he supports. Democrats in the Senate refuse to introduce a budget resolution and its been more than 800 days since one actually passed. Instead, they spend their time demagogueing the House-passed budget of Chairman Paul Ryan. This too must end. Because of our debt, we are in jeopardy of losing the American Dream where children are able to do better than their parents. It's time we bring discipline to the way Congress spends. Now is the time to insist on a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution before our country becomes Greece. Simply stated, no more borrowing until we agree to balance.
07.14.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the debt-limit negotiations and his support for a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. “President Obama’s warning to Republicans that he will take the debt limit issue to the American people is music to my ears. Mr. President, I do not fear such a debate. Quite frankly, I welcome it. “While I disagree with President Obama on many issues regarding our current fiscal situation, I do agree with his suggestion we give the American people a voice in this matter. “For that reason, President Obama should support - not oppose - a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. When President Obama rejects the idea we need the discipline of a Balanced Budget Amendment he is either in denial or realizes it would be a death-blow to government expansion in perpetuity. Either way, his opposition is misplaced and should cease. “Mr. President, sending the Balanced Budget Amendment to the states for ratification would indeed be giving the American people their say. Ratification requires three-fourth of the states to approve and the process itself is the ultimate opportunity for the American people to have a voice in how Congress functions. I’m confident if given this choice, Americans from all corners, would approve this change. “From my own personal experience, I do not believe either party has the will to bring about a balanced budget. It is clear special interest politics on both the left and right grow stronger every year. The only way to bring about a balanced budget each year is through a balanced budget requirement like 49 of the 50 states already have. “What rational person could ever think Congress will do the hard things required to balance the budget given our history for the last forty years? “That is why I am urging the House to pass legislation that would raise the debt ceiling, contingent on Congress passing a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution. This process allows the American people to have their voices heard and would lead to the structural changes we need to get our nation’s fiscal house in order. “It is for these reasons I urge President Obama to join our efforts to pass a Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment." #####
07.08.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the news only 18,000 private sector jobs were created last month and the national unemployment rate had risen to 9.2 percent. “If government-run health-care, new layers of bureaucratic red tape, and dramatic increases in federal spending were the perfect cocktail for job creation, we would have been flooded with new jobs. “Unfortunately for us, the federal spending binge President Obama and congressional Democrats engaged in over the past two years is proving to be a lethal, job-killing combination. Their agenda leads to perpetual economic stagnation and is creating an insurmountable wall for private sector job creation. “Now is the time to reduce spending, engage in meaningful regulatory reform, and keep taxes low so we can give American job creators a fighting chance to help turn our economy around.” #####
07.07.2011	Tate Zeigler (202-224-5972) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) today introduced a Sense of the Senate resolution making clear President Obama does not have the authority to ignore the statutory debt limit. Some elected officials recently floated the controversial idea that congressional approval of a debt-limit increase is unnecessary. They suggested the 14th Amendment gives the President the ability to unilaterally order the Treasury Secretary to continue issuing debt on the full faith and credit of the United States. “I strongly disagree with those who suggest the President has the unilateral authority to put the American people in even great levels of debt,” said Graham. “Every time the debt ceiling has been raised it has been through an act of collaboration between the President and Congress. That is not only the right policy decision to make, but the correct political decision as well. We have a President, not a King. Our resolution puts the Senate on record that any debt-limit increase, today or in the future, should be passed by the Congress and signed by the President.” “Unfortunately this is the latest attempt by big-spending Democrats to short-circuit the Constitution in order to avoid making tough budget choices,” said Cornyn. “It is unacceptable for Congress and the President to continue to abdicate their responsibility and fail to acknowledge that Washington has a spending problem.” In support of their resolution, the Senators noted: The Constitution gives Congress the power “to borrow Money on the credit of the United States." The statutory debt-limit was established by an act of Congress and signed into law by the President in 1982. In the nearly three decades since the limit was enacted, it has been increased 38 times by congressional action and presidential approval. Congress has historically limited the federal debt, either by specifically authorizing the issuance of new debt instruments or through imposing an aggregate limit on federal debt. #####
06.30.2011	Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the decision by an administrative law judge to deny The Boeing Company’s motion to dismiss the NLRB lawsuit. Graham said: “The NLRB’s administrative law judge’s ruling is not surprising given the history of these cases. More rulings against Boeing are likely." “Right now Boeing is stuck in what amounts to a union-controlled NLRB Star Chamber whose sole purpose is to extract a pound of flesh from the company." “Eventually Boeing will break free from the union-dominated process and move to a truly independent court of law. It’s there Boeing ultimately prevails over this frivolous NLRB complaint." “South Carolina earned the right to build these airplanes and no unelected bureaucracy is going to take that away from us.” #####
06.29.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the incredible victory earned last night by the University of South Carolina (USC) baseball team at the College World Series. “South Carolina baseball has achieved legendary status by winning back-to-back NCAA Baseball National Championship titles. Ray Tanner and his gutsy team represent the very best in college athletics and have brought great pride to our entire state.” “Good coaching and good fundamentals, combined with tremendous heart, adds up to greatness.” “They have earned back-to-back national championships in record-breaking fashion, and they’ve won with guts, heart, and honor.” “Congratulations to Gamecock Nation on an extraordinary championship.” #####
06.23.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) yesterday signed on to Cut-Cap-Balance which asks Senators and members of Congress to pledge to make substantial cuts in spending, enforce spending caps, and pass a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution before increasing the debt-limit. “There is zero chance we will ever balance our nation’s budget under the current construct,” said Graham. “I’m convinced the only way Congress and the President will annually balance the federal budget is if it’s constitutionally required. Without a Balanced Budget Amendment both parties will only talk about balancing the budget, never actually get it done.” Graham also noted the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has released a new long-term budget outlook which shows that our national debt could soon exceed the size of the entire United States economy. ##### PHOTO: Graham Signs Cut, Cap, Balance http://www.flickr.com/photos/grahamblog/5863477388/ VIDEO: Graham Discusses Support for A Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment http://youtu.be/npNIxxxa7QQ
06.21.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the ethics complaint filed against him by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAM). The IAM is the union which filed the initial complaint with the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) accusing Boeing of acting illegally in constructing the second 787 assembly line in North Charleston, South Carolina. Graham said: “It’s clear what this union complaint is about -- it’s an effort to intimidate people like me who are speaking out against them. I will not be intimidated. And it’s not going to stop me from fighting for the people of South Carolina. “The NLRB is an out-of-control bureaucracy trying to destroy thousands of jobs in our state. I will not silently stand by and watch it happen. “I, along with Senators DeMint and Alexander, have introduced legislation to protect state right-to-work laws and prevent the NLRB from attempting a similar strategy against other companies. Allowing the NLRB to pursue this and similar cases will do tremendous damage to job creation in our state and across America. I won’t let outrageous claims deter my efforts to stop the NLRB from destroying thousands of jobs in South Carolina. “The union complaint against me is ridiculous, just like their complaint against Boeing.” #### IAM complaint against Graham http://www.iamnow.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/06/Senate.ethics.complaint.letter.pdf IAM Press Release: http://www.goiam.org/index.php/news/press-releases/8856-iam-charges-gop-senator-with-ethics-violations-in-boeing-case
05.26.2011	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- Today, Senators John McCain (AZ-R), Joe Lieberman (CT-ID), Lindsey Graham (SC-R) and Marco Rubio (R-FL) released the following statement regarding Syria: "In his speech one week ago, President Obama gave Bashar al Assad one last chance. Bashar had a choice to make, the President said: either embrace the democratic reforms demanded by the Syrian people, or get out of the way. "It is now clear which choice Bashar al Assad has made, and that it is time for him to step aside. In the week since the President's speech, Assad's regime has continued its violent and brutal assault against the Syrian people. Mass graves have been found in Syria, while human rights groups estimate that more than one thousand people have been killed and over 8,000 people have been unlawfully detained or forcibly disappeared. "Having ignored President Obama's appeal, Bashar al Assad and his regime must now bear the consequences. We urge President Obama to declare, as the Syrian protesters have, that Bashar al Assad has lost his legitimacy and it is time for him to go. "We also hope the Obama Administration will work with our allies and partners to raise the situation in Syria at the UN Security Council and secure the passage of a meaningful resolution there. We commend the General Secretariat of the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) for its condemnation of the violence in Syria, and urge our Administration to work with Turkey, Saudi Arabia, and other regional partners to ratchet up the pressure on Assad in other forums and lend greater support to the Syrian people. "Finally, at the same time the United States and the international community target the Syrian regime for its campaign of barbaric human rights abuses, we must also hold Bashar al Assad accountable for his other violations of international law. In particular, the evidence is now clear and convincing that Syria has pursued illicit nuclear activities in violation of the NPT and stonewalled the IAEA investigation. It is time for the IAEA Board of Governors to find the Syrian government in noncompliance of its NPT obligations and refer the Assad regime to the UN Security Council." #####
05.25.2011	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 I appreciate the hard work of the House Budget Committee and its Chairman Paul Ryan. I was proud to vote today in support of bringing the House-passed budget plan straight to the Senate floor for debate. There is no doubt that we must make structural changes to Social Security and Medicare. Both programs, as the Trustees of the Social Security and Medicare Trust Funds have repeatedly made clear, are unsustainable in their current forms. Those aren't politicians sounding the alarm, but the people responsible for running the programs. These two programs are important to millions of seniors today and in the future. Doing nothing to save them should not be an option. I will not stand by and watch as these programs collapse. We can save them, but only if we deal honestly with their financial problems now. On Social Security, I have worked on this issue each and every year since my election to the Senate in 2002. Already this year I have introduced legislation with Senators Rand Paul (R-KY) and Mike Lee (R-UT) to put forth another plan making the necessary changes to put the program on more solid footing. But let's be clear, the funding problems facing Social Security pale in comparison to the problems facing Medicare. Social Security is the ‘easy' fix of the two. Like Social Security, Medicare remains another important program for millions of seniors. Allowing it to collapse is unacceptable to those who rely on the program and health care in general. While I may not agree with every detail in the Ryan plan - and if it had gone through the regular committee process we could have made improvements -- I appreciate the willingness to tackle a very tough issue in an honest, straightforward way. Instead of launching attacks against the Ryan plan, opponents should put their ideas on the table on how to save Medicare. It's truly disappointing that Senate Democrats, at the direction of Majority Leader Harry Reid, have flat out refused to bring forth a budget. President Obama, to his credit, at least put forward a proposal. However, it's been 756 days since the Senate last passed a budget, and Senate Democrats blatant refusal to uphold their constitutional duties by not attempting to write a budget speaks volumes about their agenda. Demagoguery is not going to save Medicare. It's not going to save Social Security. It's not going to put our country on the path to balanced budgets. This is a time when we need a healthy discussion about our financial future and the tough choices that lie ahead. Instead we get nothing but demagoguery and political games. The American people deserve better.
05.20.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and future American assistance. Graham is the Ranking Republican on the Subcommittee on the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs of the Senate Appropriations Committee. Graham said: “For some time we have avoided talking about the elephant in the room in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. I think it is time we break the silence." “Will the Palestinian people – through their elected leaders – recognize Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish State?" “The American people have assisted the Palestinian and Israeli people in helping build strong societies." “Future American aid to the Palestinian people should require one basic condition – the recognition by the Palestinian government and elected officials from its major coalition members of Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish State." “Elected officials in Israel, from conservative and liberal governments, acknowledge and support an independent Palestinian state. They have expressed support for a two-state solution. It is time for Palestinian officials to state clearly and unequivocally that they accept the presence of Israel as a Jewish State." “I don’t think this is too much to ask and is necessary to clear the air. Details such as boundary lines, capitol locations, security arrangements, settlements, and other outstanding issues can only be dealt with over time if the true goal is something other than the destruction of Israel." “This new condition on American aid is imperative in light of the coalition government formed between the Palestinian Authority and Hamas. The Hamas charter calls for the destruction of Israel and our country views them as a terrorist organization. A coalition between the Palestinian Authority and an unreformed, unrepentant Hamas makes a comprehensive peace deal with Israel virtually impossible." “Until Palestinian officials address this elephant in the room, I do not believe the Israeli-Palestinian negotiations will bear fruit and any future aid by our country will be wasted.” #####
05.19.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements following President Obama’s address on the situation in the Middle East and North Africa. On Israel: “I was very disappointed in the President singling out one issue in the Israeli-Palestinian efforts for peace." “Embracing an Israel confined to the 1967 borders – even with a land swap – undermines the effort to get a comprehensive peace agreement that includes real security protections for the State of Israel." “There are a number of major issues that must be dealt with such as the right of return, the treatment of Jerusalem, and the ability to have buffer zones along the Jordanian border, to name a few. By emphasizing the configuration of the border, the President made a comprehensive peace deal more difficult. It was a mistake.” On Egypt: “In many ways, the President showed deep appreciation for the Arab Spring and the potential payoffs for our own national security. At a time when we’re broke at home, it remains important to remain engaged in the world and provide assistance to those who would live in peace with us." “I stand ready to work with the President to do all we can to help the Egyptian people create a new path that embraces representative government, tolerance and the rule of law. Egypt is the heart of the Arab world and if democracy can form there, it will change the region forever.” On Iraq and Afghanistan: “I will try my best to be supportive of the efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan and believe we’re making great progress in both countries. We still face serious challenges in the weeks and months ahead but must remain committed to finishing the job.” #####
05.19.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Goodwin Liu to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. “His outrageous attack on Judge Alito convinced me that Goodwin Liu is an ideologue. His statement showed he has nothing but disdain for those who disagree with him. Those are debates that are reserved for the legislative and executive branches, not the judicial." “Goodwin Liu should run for elected office, not serve as a judge. Ideologues have their place, just not on the bench.” “This episode -- along with his out of the mainstream writings -- requires me to take the extraordinary step of voting no on cloture.” ##### Testimony of Professor Goodwin Liu Before the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary on the Nomination of Judge Samuel A. Alito, Jr. to the United States Supreme Court. “Judge Alito’s record envisions an America where police may shoot and kill an unarmed boy to stop him from running away with a stolen purse; where federal agents may point guns at ordinary citizens during a raid, even after no sign of resistance; where the FBI may install a camera where you sleep on the promise that they won’t turn it on unless an informant is in the room; where a black man may be sentenced to death by an all-white jury for killing a white man, absent a multiple regression analysis showing discrimination; and where police may search what a warrant permits, and then some. Mr. Chairman, I humbly submit that this is not the America we know. Nor is it the America we aspire to be.”
05.17.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said the deepening of the Port of Charleston took a huge step forward today when the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers released its Work Plan for the rest of Fiscal Year 2011 and included $150,000 to begin the Charleston Harbor deepening study. Graham made the announcement in a conference call with Sixth District Congressman James E. Clyburn and First District Congressman Tim Scott. “This is a very good day for the Port of Charleston,” said Graham. “Today’s announcement is an important first step in a long journey. I truly appreciate the help the Vice President has provided in this effort. I appreciate the work of the South Carolina delegation in making this happen. I also want to thank Senator Alexander, Senator Reid, Senator McConnell, Senator Feinstein, and their respective staffs for the assistance they provided in this effort. This has truly been a bipartisan effort in the Senate. Before today, we were literally out of the game and there was a real concern we would fall another year behind. Now, we’re back in the game.” Graham noted the major impact of the announcement is that it allows the South Carolina Ports Authority (SCPA) to enter into a legal partnership with the federal government (U.S. Army Corp of Engineers) to share the future costs of harbor deepening. The agreement between the SCPA and the Army Corp is expected to be signed in the coming days. The next phase in harbor deepening is expected to take 3 to 5 years and involves a 50-50 cost-share between the Army Corp and SCPA. The total cost of the study is expected to be $12-20 million. The total cost of the entire harbor deepening project will exceed $300 million. Graham noted that financially it is imperative that South Carolina continues to partner with the federal government when it comes to sharing cost. “The Port of Charleston truly is one of South Carolina’s chief economic engines,” said Graham. “The Port is responsible for an estimated 268,000 jobs and $11.8 billion in wages. In fact, one out of every five jobs in South Carolina is tied, directly or indirectly, to operation of the Port.” “Harbor deepening is absolutely critical to ensuring the Port of Charleston stays viable in the years ahead,” said Graham. “We’ve already begun working on funding for next year. I know it will be a challenge as it was not included in the President’s budget." “We literally have tens of thousands of jobs across South Carolina and billions of dollars in business at stake with harbor deepening,” said Graham. “The importance of this issue to our state’s economy and future job creation efforts cannot be overstated.” #####
05.12.2011	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 / Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lamar Alexander (R-Tenn.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.), and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) today introduced the Job Protection Act (S. 964), a bill to preserve federal law’s existing protections of state right-to-work laws. On April 20, the acting general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board moved to stop Boeing from building airplanes at a nonunion plant in South Carolina, suggesting that unionized American company cannot expand its operations into one of the 22 states with right-to-work laws, which protect a worker’s right to join or not join a union. Alexander said: “This is not just about South Carolina and it’s not just about making airplanes – this is about jobs in every state in the country, and whether or not manufacturers are going to be able to make in the United States what they sell in the United States. I can’t think of one single action the federal government would take that would make it harder to create new jobs in Tennessee than this Boeing complaint, if it’s allowed to move forward.” Graham said: “The NLRB is doing the bidding of the unions at a great cost to South Carolina and our nation’s economy. I do not believe unelected bureaucracies should be allowed to go down the road the NLRB is charting. The foundation of the NLRB complaint against Boeing would destroy the American business community’s ability to negotiate and make rational business decisions. Our legislation prohibits the use of statements made during negotiations – involving legitimate business concerns – to be used as a legal basis for a violation of the National Labor Relations Act. It is time for Congress to speak out in a common-sense way against the outrageous and frivolous complaint by unelected bureaucrats at the NLRB.” DeMint said: “Right to work states are winning the future for America's economy, yet this administration seems intent on stamping out this model of success. Right to work states have more business growth, more new jobs, and faster rising incomes than forced-unionism states. What the NLRB has done in the Boeing case is a threat to workers and businesses in every state. The NLRB is encouraging companies to take their jobs and investment overseas. This is a reprehensible act and an obvious kickback to union bosses the President is depending on helping his reelection. Unless we pass this bill, every worker and business in this nation is under the threat that if they don't do what union bosses want, this administration will come after you. Businesses have the right to invest in any state in America and states shouldn’t be penalized for protecting the rights of their citizens not to be forced to pay union dues. Right to work states should be applauded, not attacked, as they are attracting new investment and creating new jobs precisely because their policies encourage innovation and competition.” The bill would: clarify that the NLRB would not be able to order an employer to relocate jobs from one location to another. guarantee an employer the right to decide where to do business within the United States. protect an employer's free speech regarding the costs associated with having a unionized workforce without fear of such communication being used as evidence in an anti-union discrimination claim. #####
05.04.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Obama’s decision not to release photos of the corpse of Osama Bin Laden. “I respectfully disagree with President Obama’s decision not to release the photos. It’s a mistake. “The whole purpose of sending our soldiers into the compound, rather than an aerial bombardment, was to obtain indisputable proof of Bin Laden’s death. I know Bin Laden is dead. But the best way to protect and defend our interests overseas is to prove that fact to the rest of the world. “I’m afraid the decision made today by President Obama will unnecessarily prolong this debate.” #####
05.02.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham said this today on the confirmation that Al Qaeda mastermind, Osama Bin Laden, has been killed by American forces. “I was pleased to receive a phone call from Vice President Biden informing me of the news that Osama Bin Laden had been killed by U.S. Forces. I relayed to the Vice President my congratulations on this historic day. Events such as this do not happen accidently and require great personal sacrifice and courage. God bless those who put themselves in harm’s way to bring about this long-overdue day of justice. “With the death of Osama Bin Laden and impending trial of Khalid Sheik Mohammad, I hope the victims of 9/11 will receive some closure and believe justice is being served. This day has been long-awaited by our nation and all those who reject terrorism. This event by no means ends our fight against Al Qaeda, but it is a decisive moment helping create momentum for our cause throughout the world. “With the death of Osama Bin Laden, Al Qaeda will do everything possible to take revenge. That’s why it is important we stay on the offensive and remain ever-vigilant in our fight against terrorism. “It should be clearly understood that there is no safe hiding spot for those who harm the American people. Those who act against our nation will be relentlessly pursued and they will be brought to justice. Today’s announcement has been a long time coming and like all Americans, I’m very glad justice has been served.”
04.28.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC - Today, Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (AZ-R), and Joe Lieberman (CT-ID) released the following statement regarding Syria: “The escalating crackdown by Bashar al Assad's regime against the Syrian people has reached a decisive point. By following the path of Moammar Qaddafi and deploying military forces to crush peaceful demonstrations, Assad and those loyal to him have lost the legitimacy to remain in power in Syria. We urge President Obama to state unequivocally -- as he did in the case of Qaddafi and Mubarak -- that it is time for Assad to go. The President should take tangible diplomatic and economic measures to isolate and pressure the Assad regime, including through targeted sanctions against Assad himself and other regime officials who are responsible for gross human rights abuses. “Bashar al Assad has been given countless chances to pursue meaningful dialogue and reform. He has squandered all of them. Rather than hedging our bets or making excuses for the Assad regime, it is time for the United States, together with our allies in Europe and around the world, to align ourselves unequivocally with the Syrian people in their peaceful demand for a democratic government.” ####
04.27.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today made these comments on the expected changes to the Obama Administration’s national security team. According to published reports, President Obama plans to nominate CIA director Leon Panetta to head the Department of Defense, Afghanistan Commanding General David Petraeus to head the CIA, Ryan Crocker to serve as U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan, and Lt. Gen. John Allen to succeed Petraeus as commander of coalition forces in Afghanistan. Graham said: “The sum total of these picks is that the President has chosen experienced people with unique capabilities to serve our nation at a dangerous time. This team will provide the leadership to help make our nation safer. I could not be more pleased with these selections. I hope these nominees receive swift approval by the United States Senate.” On Leon Panetta as Secretary of Defense: “Leon Panetta is an outstanding choice to be Secretary of Defense. He understands the variety of threats America faces as well as anyone and has a good working relationship with Congress. He’ll be prepared for the job on day one. I look forward to supporting Leon Panetta for Secretary of Defense in this crucial time in our nation’s history.” On David Petraeus as CIA Director: “Without question, General David Petraeus is a national treasure. I believe his talents will be well utilized as the new Director of the CIA. The War on Terror will continue for many years in a variety of forms, and the CIA will continue to play a prominent role in protecting our nation. The CIA can and must provide our nation with the vital intelligence that allows us to stay a step ahead of the enemy. General Petraeus’ first-hand knowledge and understanding of the threats we face, as well as his outstanding leadership capabilities, make him an inspired choice to serve as our new CIA Director.” On General John Allen as Commander of Coalition Forces in Afghanistan: “Lt. General Allen is a worthy successor to General Petraeus as our new commander in Afghanistan. I have known Lt. General Allen for many years and believe his selection will be well-received by our troops in Afghanistan and leaders in the region. He has an intimate understanding of the Afghan strategy and will continue to take the fight to the Taliban and other enemies in Afghanistan. He is the right man at the right time to continue the outstanding work of General Petraeus.” On Ryan Crocker as U.S. Ambassador to Afghanistan: “As we move forward during these critical times, Ryan Crocker will be a steady hand who maximizes our chances of success in Afghanistan. Having Ryan Crocker back in the fight as the new ambassador to Afghanistan is a very wise decision by President Obama. I have never met a diplomat more capable than Ryan Crocker. What he was able to accomplish in Iraq is legendary.” “His prior assignment as U.S. Ambassador to Pakistan will be invaluable to him as we try to move forward in Afghanistan. He and General Allen will make a world-class team representing America’s interests in Afghanistan as we transition to Afghan control in 2014. It is also important we recognize the outstanding work of Ambassador Karl Eikenberry. Ambassador Eikenberry deserves a lot of credit for the new strategy that is beginning to show signs of progress in Afghanistan. He and his wife have served our nation well, and I wish them all the best.” ####
04.26.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been recognized by the 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union (NTU) as a ‘Taxpayers Friend’ for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record. NTU Executive Vice President Pete Sepp said, "Unlike so many of his Senate colleagues, Lindsey Graham did more than just talk about relieving the burden on current and future taxpayers in 2010 – he voted that way day in and day out. We look forward to working with Senator Graham this year as we restore fiscal responsibility to Washington DC." Graham’s score of 97 percent in 2010 is the highest score of any member of the South Carolina delegation in Washington. The Taxpayer’s Friend award is bestowed upon Senators who achieve an ‘A’ grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The 111th Congressional Rating, which is based on 142 Senate votes affecting fiscal policy, assigns a ‘Taxpayer Score’ to each Senator that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. The average ‘Taxpayer Score’ in the Senate was 45. In 2010, only 79 lawmakers in the House and Senate attainted scores sufficient to win the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” (earning at least 90 percent in the House or 95 percent in the Senate). Meanwhile, 264 Senators and Representatives captured the title of “Big Spender” for posting ‘F’ grades (scores of 20 percent or less in the House and 18 percent or less in the Senate). This is just three shy of the record 267 “Big Spenders” logged in 2009 and 2008. NTU is a nonpartisan, nonprofit citizen group founded in 1969 to work for lower taxes, smaller government, and economic freedom at all levels. Note: The 2010 Rating and a searchable Rating database dating back to 1992 is available at www.ntu.org. #####
04.20.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) complaint against Boeing. “This is one of the worst examples of unelected bureaucrats doing the bidding of special interest groups that I’ve ever seen. In this case, the NLRB is doing the bidding of the unions at great cost to South Carolina and our nation’s economy. “It makes perfect sense for a world-class company like Boeing to diversify their production capabilities. Boeing made a solid business decision in coming to South Carolina, and we welcome them with open arms. They could have gone anywhere, but they knew that South Carolina was a great place to do business. Their decision to open their new facility in North Charleston will pay dividends for the company, its workers, and our state for many years to come. It’s a decision that will stand the test of time. “If successful, the NLRB complaint would allow unions to hold a virtual ‘veto’ over business decisions. Left to their own devices, the NLRB would routinely punish right-to-work states that value and promote their pro-business climates. The current makeup of the NLRB Board has been skewed against business. This action will not be allowed to stand. “I would be surprised if any court recognized the legitimacy of this complaint. It’s pretty easy to see that at its heart, this is about union politics. As Senator, I will do everything in my power, including introducing legislation cutting off funding for this wild goose chase, to stop the NLRB’s frivolous complaint.” #####
04.15.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against legislation to fund the federal government through the end of the fiscal year in September. Graham said: “I appreciate the effort to try to reduce overall spending for Fiscal Year 2011. However, when this bill was closely examined it did not live up to the billing of making significant reductions in spending. In addition, the legislation also failed to provide the authority needed for the Port of Charleston to move forward with plans to deepen the harbor. I could not say, in good conscience, this was a good budget when it came to spending reductions or job creation. However, it is now time to move on to the 2012 budget where I hope we’ll make serious efforts to get our nation out of debt and create 21st Century jobs. “I’m glad to have joined with Senators Rand Paul and Mike Lee to introduce a Social Security bill that reduces our long-term funding debt by $5.4 trillion. In the 2012 budget, we must address the big issues of entitlement reform and ensure job creators, like the Port of Charleston, are not prevented from making the progress necessary for South Carolina’s future prosperity.” #####
04.13.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Rand Paul (R-Kentucky), and Mike Lee (R-Utah) today introduced new legislation addressing major funding issues facing Social Security in the coming years. The Senators noted their plan, Social Security Solvency and Sustainability Act, achieves sustainable solvency for the Social Security system without any tax increases. What the plan accomplishes: Reduces debt held by the public by $6.2 trillion by 2085. Eliminates the current difference of $5.4 trillion between benefits promised and what Social Security can actually pay. Creates a solvent and sustainable Social Security system that will be able to provide the benefits it promises to future generations without raising taxes. Gradual Increase in the Social Security Retirement Age – The senators propose a gradual increase in the Social Security full retirement age to 70 by 2032. Indexing the Retirement Age to Longevity – When retirement age of 70 is achieved, the full retirement age will then be indexed to increases or decreases in life expectancy. Indexing will help maintain a constant ratio of years worked to years spent in retirement. (Click here for chart detailing current law and Social Security Solvency and Sustainability Act retirement age.) Gradual Increase in the Early Retirement Age – The senators propose a gradual increase in the Social Security early retirement age from 62 to 64 by 2028. Slower Benefit Accumulation for Higher Lifetime Earners – After 2018, all new retirees coming into the system will have benefits based on the first $43,000 of their average lifetime yearly earnings calculated based on wage growth. Above $43,000, benefits will be calculated based on price growth. “Social Security is coming unraveled and it must be preserved,” said Senator Graham. “Our plan saves Social Security and will be significant down-payment on comprehensive entitlement reform. I’ve been involved in Social Security reform since my election to the Senate in 2002. I’m quite familiar with the scare tactics and know first-hand the demagoguery that is sure to come our way. But the American people know the problems facing Social Security are real and must be addressed. Every year we delay, the solutions get more difficult and the consequences of inaction become more dramatic. It’s time for action.” “This plan fully fixes the shortfall in the Social Security program, ensuring that the promises we make today can and will be kept. It gradually implements changes everyone knows need to be made,” Senator Paul said. “If we wait a few years, the fixes will have to be more drastic and less thought-out and gradual. I urge anyone who wishes to join this discussion to do so by bringing forward their own plan that fully fixes our Social Security system for the next 75 years or more.” “Our proposal addresses the coming Social Security deficit in a responsible way without raising taxes,” said Senator Lee. “These ideas should be part of the larger debate over entitlement reform that we will have in the coming months. For those who might oppose these solutions, I look forward to hearing their ideas to make Social Security solvent and sustainable as the discussion goes forward.” ##### To see a full copy of the bill, click here. To watch the full press conference, click here.
04.08.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this announcement on how his Senate office will function, should the Congress and President fail to come to agreement on the federal budget by midnight. Each Member of Congress is responsible for establishing their procedures for operation during a government shutdown. Senator Graham will refund his salary to the Federal Treasury for the time the government remains shutdown. Senator Graham’s offices in Columbia, Florence, Greenville, Mount Pleasant, Pendleton, Rock Hill, and Washington will be closed during the shutdown. Senator Graham’s staff -- both in Washington and South Carolina -- will be furloughed and placed on unpaid leave. “I will refund my salary to the Bureau of the Public Debt within the U.S. Department of Treasury,” said Graham. “Our brave men and women serving in uniform will not get paid during the shutdown. I believe Members of Congress should think twice about putting their way of life before those who fight to protect it." “I’m disappointed Democrats in Congress and President Obama have not agreed to our very reasonable requests for spending reductions,” said Graham. “What we’re seeking is belt-tightening at the federal level, a practice millions of Americans have already gone through. It’s long past time we get our nation’s fiscal house in order. The essence of our proposal is to take spending back to 2008 levels plus inflation. Our proposal is by no means extreme." “I’m very proud of my staffers who deliver high-quality constituent services to the people of South Carolina,” said Graham. “It’s a tradition I’ve tried to carry over from Senator Thurmond. However, I cannot justify having the offices open during a government shutdown when the staff will be unable to meaningfully help people." “Therefore, my staffers will be furloughed without pay,” said Graham. “I truly believe with the government shut down, we can’t deliver services to the people of South Carolina in a way to justify the expense. In light of those facts, closing the office and furloughing the staff is the fiscally-responsible step to take.” #####
04.06.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of the McConnell Amendment to stop the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from issuing regulations regarding greenhouse gas emissions. It failed by a vote of 50-50 as 60 votes were required for passage. In the U.S. Supreme Court's 2007 decision Massachusetts v. EPA, the Court ruled carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases should be regulated as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. “EPA regulation of carbon is the worst possible outcome and a disaster in the making,” said Graham. “The EPA will put burdens on consumers and businesses they cannot handle. It has long been clear to me that elected representatives should write the rules, not the EPA. I believe it is a noble endeavor for our country to pursue the cleanest air and purest water in the world. But the worst way to pursue those objectives is through heavy-handed EPA regulation.” ####
04.05.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) and Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John Thune (R-South Dakota), Chairman of the Republican Policy Committee, yesterday introduced the Repeal the CLASS Entitlement Act, which would fully repeal the Community Living Assistance Services and Supports (CLASS) Act, a new long-term care entitlement program included in Obamacare. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has said the $86 billion CLASS Act could end up adding tens of billions of dollars to the long-term budget. “The CLASS Act is a Ponzi scheme that would make Bernie Madoff blush," said Graham. “It's billed as an insurance program for long-term care, but really it's just a huge and very costly government accounting trick. Remember Enron accounting? Well, I believe even Enron executives would be embarrassed by the accounting gimmicks created by the CLASS Act." “The CLASS Act threatens to put taxpayers on the hook for a massive new entitlement program,” said Thune. “Our country’s existing entitlements are well past the point of sustainability, and we cannot add yet another program to this existing burden. I look forward to working with my colleagues to move this bill through Congress and fully repeal the onerous CLASS Act without delay.” Experts predict the CLASS Act will attract enrollees who require high medical payouts, which will increase premiums for others and discourage young and healthy works from entering the risk pool. Democrats have stated similar concerns over the CLASS Act’s sustainability. The president’s own Health and Human Services (HHS) Secretary Kathleen Sebelius has stated that the CLASS Act is “totally unsustainable,” and Senate Budget Committee Chairman Kent Conrad (D-N.D.) has called the program “a Ponzi scheme of the first order, the kind of thing Bernie Madoff would be proud of.” President Obama’s Assistant Secretary for Aging, Kathy Greenlee, recently admitted that premiums collected in the CLASS Act were double counted as funding the program and as savings achieved in the health care law. In the last session of Congress, Thune introduced an amendment to strip the CLASS Act from the health spending bill, and the effort received a majority of the Senate’s support (51-47), but fell short of the necessary 60 vote threshold. Twelve Democrats voted to strip the program from the bill due to questions for long-term sustainability. ####
04.04.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), the leader of the Senate effort to move the trial of Khalid Sheik Mohammad (KSM) and the other 9/11 conspirators from federal district court to military commission, made this statement today. "I appreciate the decision by Attorney General Holder to move the trial of KSM and the 9/11 conspirators from federal district court in New York to military commission at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Those responsible for planning and executing the attacks on 9/11 present a danger to our nation, and it is inexcusable that they have not been brought to trial. I'm hopeful the trial will proceed as soon as possible so justice can finally be rendered. "KSM, the mastermind of 9/11, is the epitome of an enemy combatant, and his crimes against the American people were a violation of the law of war. I'm glad he and the other 9/11 co-conspirators will be held accountable within the military commission system that I helped create through legislation and which received overwhelming bipartisan support in Congress. "Military commissions have been used in wars throughout our history, and they should be used in this war. The commission trials will be transparent, conducted by the same judges and jurors who administer justice to our own troops, and subject to civilian review. In addition, the military commissions system balances the interest of the accused with the safety of our nation as a whole in this time of war. "Providing KSM and the other co-conspirators of 9/11 the same rights as American citizens in civilian courts would have criminalized this war. Since 9/11 we have been in an undeclared state of war with Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations. The military commissions system is the appropriate venue for this trial. I am very proud of and have confidence in our military justice system." #####
03.31.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) announced their support of a constitutional Balanced Budget Amendment (BBA) with all 45 other Republican members of the U.S. Senate. The government is borrowing 40 cents on every dollar it spends and President Obama is asking Congress to raise the debt ceiling for the fourth time since he entered office. “We must not allow a vote to increase the limit on our staggering $14 trillion debt until the Senate passes a balanced budget amendment,” said DeMint. “The Democrats refusal to agree to even a 4 percent reduction of this year’s $1.6 trillion deficit proves Congress will never stop its spending addiction unless it is forced to by law. Forty-nine states have balanced budget requirements and the federal government should, too. “A balanced budget constitutional amendment provides the best hope of regaining and maintaining fiscal sanity,” said Graham, a long-time supporter of the BBA. “In their private and business lives Americans don’t get a pass on their pocketbooks and have to deal with the consequences of overspending. The government, on the other hand, can ignore those kinds of rules. It’s past time we get our nation’s fiscal house in order, and passage of this necessary reform will finally rein in Congressional spending.” If ratified, it would require the President to submit to Congress a balanced budget that limits outlays to 18 percent of GDP. In limited circumstances, such as during a time of war, Congress can waive the balanced budget requirement with a three-fifths majority. The amendment also would make it more difficult for Congress to increase the burden on the taxpayer by requiring a two-thirds majority vote to raise taxes. A decade ago, a similar version of the BBA passed the House of Representatives but failed in the Senate by a single vote. In order to become law, the amendment must be passed by two-thirds of both the House of Representatives and the Senate, and then be ratified by three-fourths of the states. Forty-nine states currently have a balanced budget requirement. Details of the Balanced Budget Amendment: Presidential Requirement to Submit a Balanced Budget Prior to each fiscal year, the President must transmit to Congress a balanced budget that limits outlays to 18 percent of GDP. Requirement to Pass a Balanced Budget With the following limited exceptions, Congress must pass a balanced budget. Requires 2/3 of both Houses for a specific deficit for a fiscal year. Requires a majority of Congress for a specific deficit for a fiscal year during a declared war. Requires 3/5 of Congress for a specific deficit for a fiscal year during a military conflict declared to be “an imminent and serious military threat to national security” and the deficit must be limited to “outlays…made necessary by the identified conflict.” 18 Percent Spending Cap With the following limited exceptions, Congress must limit outlays to 18 percent of GDP. Requires 2/3 of both Houses for a specific excess above 18 percent for a fiscal year. Requires a majority of Congress for a specific excess above 18 percent for a fiscal year during a declared war. Requires 3/5 of Congress for a specific excess above 18 percent for a fiscal year during a military conflict declared to be “an imminent and serious military threat to national security” and the excess be limited to “outlays…made necessary by the identified conflict.” Supermajority for Tax Increases Establishes new supermajority requirement for net tax and rate increases. Requires 2/3 of both Houses for any bill “that imposes a new tax or increases the statutory rate of any tax or the aggregate amount of revenue.” Excludes increases in revenue resulting from tax cuts. Supermajority to Raise the Debt Limit Establishes new supermajority requirement for an increase in the debt limit. Requires 3/5 of both Houses to increase the debt limit. Requires a majority of Congress for a fiscal year during a declared war. Congressional Enforcement and Use of Estimates Provides for congressional enforcement and the use of estimates. Limits on Courts Prohibits courts from ordering revenue increases to enforce. Effective Date Becomes effective the fifth fiscal year after ratification. #####
03.31.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today wrote to U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder encouraging him to increase the pressure on Libyan Muammar Qadhafi by investigating the role Gaddafi played in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103. Graham noted that last month Mustafa Abdel-Jalil, formerly the Libyan Minister of Justice, claimed to possess proof that Mr. Qadhafi ordered the bombing. Graham wrote: “I wholly agree with President Obama’s statements that Muammar Qadhafi’s rule in Libya must end. For four decades, Mr. Qadhafi has ruled over his people as a tyrant. His actions have resulted in the deaths of thousands of Libyans and endangered people from around the world. He is not the legitimate leader of Libya and is in fact an international criminal. “I write today to urge the investigation of Muammar Qadhafi’s involvement in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. As Secretary of State Clinton recognized, former members of the Libyan government recently stated that Mr. Qadhafi ordered the bombing of the civilian plane. “The bombing of Pan Am flight 103 killed 270 people, including 189 Americans. The families and loved ones of those killed in the attack deserve justice and a full accounting of those responsible. I fully support Secretary Clinton’s call for an investigation into Mr. Qadhafi’s involvement in the attack. Should the claims of Mr. Qadhafi’s involvement prove true, he should be punished to the fullest extent of the law.” #### To read the final letter, click here.
03.23.2011	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the one-year anniversary of Obamacare. Graham voted against Obamacare in the U.S. Senate last year. Since then, he has introduced legislation with Senator John Barrasso (R-Wyoming) to allow states to opt-out of the major provisions such as the individual mandate, employer mandate, Medicaid expansion, and other mandates contained in the bill. He also co-sponsored and voted in support of legislation to completely repeal Obamacare. Graham said: “President Obama and the Democrats in Congress have tried every conceivable idea to sell people on their health care reform. Too bad for them, but the American people aren’t buying it. “One year later the many structural flaws of Obamacare are better defined and many of the dubious claims made to support its passage have been proven wrong. The Obama Administration, recognizing the many shortcomings of the bill, has issued over 1,000 waivers to the favored few. These waivers allow the favored few to get out of the most onerous provisions of Obamacare while rest of America is forced to suffer. “I will continue to push for Repeal and Replace of Obamacare by passing the Barrasso-Graham legislation allowing states to opt-out. The Medicaid rolls in South Carolina - one of the largest expenditures in our state budget - will increase by over 60 percent under Obamcare. This forced expansion, one of the many unfunded mandates in Obamacare, will bankrupt our state. “Obamcare raises costs, lowers the quality of care, shifts a new unfunded mandate onto the states and will ultimately result in health care rationing. One year later, Obamacare remains bad medicine and Americans don’t have to take it.” #####
03.16.2011	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the establishment of a No-Fly zone over Libya and what United States inaction means for our own national security. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “One test in foreign policy – at least be as bold as the French. Unfortunately, when it comes to Libya we’re failing that test. “The French and British are right to call for a no-fly zone over Libya, and they are correct to recognize the forces opposing Gaddafi. I’m very disappointed by the indecisiveness of the Administration in the face of tyranny. They are allowing the cries of the Libyan people to fall on deaf ears. “Allowing Gaddafi to regain control over Libya through force – without any meaningful effort to support the Libyan people – will create grave consequences for our own national security. “The biggest winner of an indecisive America refusing to stand up to dictators who kill their own people, will be the Iranian regime. The Iranian regime has already used force against their own people when they demanded freedom. If we allow Gaddafi to regain power through force of arms, it is inconceivable to me that the Iranians will ever take our efforts to control their nuclear desires seriously. “The world is watching, and time is beginning to run short. The Obama Administration should join with the international community to form a no-fly zone while it still matters. “Then-Senator Obama relished the opportunity to label Iraq as President Bush’s war. If he does not act decisively in Libya, I believe history will show that the Obama Administration owned the results of the Gaddafi regime from 2011 forward. “Their refusal to act will go down as one of the great mistakes in American foreign policy history, and will have dire consequences for our own national security in the years to come. I truly fear the decisions they are making today will come back to haunt us.”
03.10.2011	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said President Obama should replace General James Clapper, Director of National Intelligence (DNI). In testimony before the Senate Armed Services Committee this morning, Clapper said the Gaddafi regime in Libya would “prevail” over Libyan rebels. Clapper had previously called the Muslim Brotherhood a “secular” organization and was unfamiliar with a major anti-terror raid in London to foil an Al-Qaeda inspired attack. Graham said: “The situation in Libya remains tenuous and the DNI Director’s comments today on Gaddafi’s “staying power” are not helpful to our national security interests. His comments will make the situation more difficult for those opposing Gaddafi. It also undercuts our national efforts to bring about the desired result of Libya moving from dictator to democracy. “Some of his analysis could prove to be accurate, but it should not have been made in such a public forum. If he felt the need to say what he did, then they should have moved into closed session. “Unfortunately, this isn’t the first questionable comment from the DNI Director. However it should be the final straw.” ######
03.01.2011	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 The new GAO report validates what most people already knew – certain aspects of the government are duplicative and wasteful. Addressing these problem areas – estimated to save $100-200 billion at a time when we’re running $1.5 trillion yearly deficits – won’t solve all our spending problems. But it will get us moving in the right direction in putting our fiscal house in order. *Information on the GAO report from Fox News and the Wall Street Journal*
02.16.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Judge Timothy M. Cain to serve on the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. “I am very pleased that President Obama has chosen to nominate Tim Cain for the Federal District Court. Tim has been a family court judge in Oconee County for many years. He’s a former law partner and one of the finest men I have ever known. He is well-grounded and has a conservative approach to the law. I think he will make an outstanding Federal Court judge for the people of South Carolina. I look forward to shepherding his nomination through the United States Senate.” ##### For audio of Senator Graham discussing the nomination, click here.
02.15.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was recognized by the American Conservative Union (ACU) for his votes in the last session of the U.S. Senate. Graham voted the conservative position 92 percent of the time in 2010, and the group termed him an ‘ACU Conservative.’ ACU, the largest and strongest grassroots conservative organization, serves as the umbrella organization for conservatives in America. The ratings were released in conjunction with ACU’s annual Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) in Washington last weekend. Their ratings, “track a wide range of issues before Congress to determine which issues and votes serve as a dividing line to help separate those Members of the U.S. House and Senate who protect liberty as conservatives and those who are truly liberal. The ratings have throughout the years become a go-to guide to determine whether an elected official’s philosophical rhetoric matches his or her record.” Among the conservative votes Graham cast that were part of the group’s 2010 scorecard: Leading the charge to repeal and replace Obamacare Blocking efforts to involve EPA in greenhouse gas regulation Defeating a bill that increased the debt limit and eliminated spending cuts Reducing federal spending Preventing any extension of the TARP program Pushing for an amendment to require completion of a 700-mile southern border fence Opposing the nomination of Craig Becker to the National Labor Relations Board Supporting tuition vouchers in the District of Columbia for low-income students Supporting efforts to require documentation to be eligible for health care programs Voting to require transparency within the Federal Reserve Reducing taxpayer exposure to risky home mortgages Opposing financial regulatory overhaul that didn’t protect consumers Instituting rescissions and federal salary freeze Voting to permanently repeal the Death Tax Supporting efforts to strengthen immigration laws Opposing rules that strengthen labor unions Upholding Supreme Court rulings on campaign finance disclosure Opposing the overhaul of food safety laws Blocking the passage of the DREAM Act Fighting the repeal of the ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ Policy Voting against passage of the New START Nuclear Arms Treaty #####
02.14.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGON – U.S Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), who serves on the Senate Budget Committee, today made the following statement criticizing President Obama’s budget proposal. “To say this budget is a disappointment would be a tremendous understatement. “The Obama budget doubles the national debt by 2012 and triples it by 2019. The spending reductions are not close to what is necessary to get our fiscal house in order. The Obama budget is also silent on the elephant in the room and that's the future growth of entitlements. “I look forward to working with my colleagues to rein in government spending and reforming entitlements.” #####
02.11.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on situation in Egypt. “Egyptian President Mubarak’s decision to step aside was the right thing to do. I hope his resignation allows healing to begin and Egypt to move toward free, open, and transparent democratic elections. “The Egyptian military, the most respected institution within the country, has an obligation to help ensure democratic transformation occurs in an orderly and peaceful fashion. When it comes to forming an Egyptian democracy, we must keep in mind the basic institutions of democracy are virtually non-existent right now. There is much work to be done in forming viable political parties and the basic foundations of democratic institutions. It will take them time to build capacity. And from the United States perspective, it is in our own national security interests to assist them, where appropriate, in the forming of democratic institutions and a civil society. “I do believe the Egyptian people have taken to the streets to embrace freedom, not radical Islam. I fear that a quick, rushed election could end up empowering the most radical elements in Egyptian society. “Finally, one of the lessons to learn from these recent events shows us how vital it is to build effective communications and relationships throughout the world. For the past 30 years we have spent American tax dollars to build relationships between the United States and Egyptian military. This long relationship bore at least some measure of fruit during the recent crisis when the Egyptian military remained loyal to the people of Egypt – not its ruler. This should serve as both a reminder and an example of why the United States must always resist the temptation to disengage from the world.” ####
02.01.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John Barrasso (R-Wyoming) today introduced S.244, The State Health Care Choice Act, to repeal and replace Obamacare by allowing states to ‘Opt-Out’ of its major provisions. Under the legislation, states could choose to ‘Opt-Out’ of: Individual mandate – the requirement to buy government-approved health insurance coupled with a financial penalty for not doing so. Employer mandate – the requirement for businesses to provide government-approved health insurance coupled with financial penalties for not doing so. Medicaid mandate – the forced expansion of state Medicaid programs. Benefit mandates – defines what qualifies as a health plan as well as new federal requirements for regulating health insurance. “As a doctor in Wyoming, I witnessed regularly how Washington simply didn’t understand the needs of the people of our state,” said Barrasso. “After Obamacare, Washington is more out of touch than ever. Instead of requiring states to follow Obamacare’s one-size-fits-all health care policy, our bill lets states decide what works best for them. We will fight to repeal the President’s bad health spending law and provide states with flexibility, freedom and choice.” “Our legislation opens up a third front in the fight against Obama health care,” said Graham, noting the other ‘fronts’ include legal challenges moving through the courts and the House-passed repeal. “Our bill takes the fight out of Washington and puts it back in the states. I would hope every Senator, regardless of party, would give the people of their home state a chance to be heard. I’m confident that if given the chance, a large number of states would opt-out of the provisions regarding the individual mandate, employer mandate, and expansion of Medicaid. As more states opt-out, it will have the effect of repealing and replacing Obamacare.” “Medicaid expansion under Obama health care will be devastating to many states, including South Carolina,” continued Graham. “We are already facing a severe budget shortfall this year. The future expansion of Medicaid – which adds an additional one billion dollars of state matching funding requirements and will result in nearly 30 percent of South Carolinians being eligible for Medicaid – only adds to our budget problems. This combination of Medicaid expansion and increased state funding makes it virtually impossible for South Carolina to pull out of her economic woes.” The Senators noted the Obama Administration has already issued 733 waivers to businesses allowing them to continue offering insurance to their employees and questioned why states should not have the same ability to obtain relief. ##### To read the text of the bill, click here.
01.27.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been appointed to serve on the Senate Appropriations Committee in the 112th Congress. The committee is responsible for writing legislation that allocates federal funds to the numerous government agencies, departments, and organizations on an annual basis. “I look forward to taking on this new committee assignment,” said Graham. “We must get our nation’s fiscal house in order and the appropriations committee will be where many of the important spending decisions will be made. I believe we can be better stewards of the taxpayer dollar and meet the legitimate funding needs of our state, such as those at the Port of Charleston.” Graham has repeatedly been cited as a ‘Taxpayer Hero’ by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW), the nation's largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government. Last year, CCAGW President Tom Schatz said of Graham, “While far too many members of Congress demonstrated little regard for the consequences of failing to reduce the record $1.4 trillion deficit and $13 trillion debt, Senator Graham's votes give taxpayers hope for the future.” In addition to service on the Appropriations Committee, Graham will continue to serve on the Aging, Armed Services, Budget, and Judiciary Committees.
01.27.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Judge Henry Floyd to serve on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. “Judge Henry Floyd is a solid choice who will serve the people of the 4th Circuit well. I’ve known him for years and know he is a respected lawyer who understands the role of a judge. He compiled an outstanding record as a federal district court judge and is well-prepared for the responsibilities of the appellate court. I very much appreciate the Obama Administration nominating him to this important position and look forward to his confirmation in the Senate.” ####
01.26.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today co-sponsored legislation introduced by his colleague Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) to fully repeal Obamacare. Thirty-six Senators have already signed on as cosponsors of the legislation. “I appreciate Jim’s hard work on this issue,” said Graham. “Obamacare is a financial disaster for our nation. It raises costs, lowers the quality of care, shifts a new unfunded mandate onto the states, and will result in health care rationing. We are committed to repealing Obamacare.” Graham noted that next week he will introduce, along with Senator John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), a different approach to repealing Obamacare. States like South Carolina would be allowed to ‘Opt-Out’ of the major provisions of Obamacare – the individual mandate, business mandate, and expansion of Medicaid. “Whether it’s an outright repeal, a state-based ‘opt-out’, delaying implementation of its major provisions, or withholding funding, we will use every tool in the toolbox to repeal and replace Obamacare,” concluded Graham. #####
01.12.2011	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement following South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley’s inaugural address. Graham attended the swearing-in ceremony at the State Capital in Columbia. “Governor Haley is off to a very good start. Her inaugural address set the right tone, encouraging cooperation where possible and presenting an optimistic view of our state’s future during difficult times. The challenges facing state government in the weeks and months ahead are real and enormous. However, by working together these challenges can be overcome. “Her transition team, headed up by David Wilkins, has made very solid choices for key Cabinet positions to serve her Administration. I believe Governor Haley has dedicated herself to finding common ground and being optimistic in the face of adversity. Those qualities will serve her well as our Governor.” #####
12.22.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement regarding the ratification of the New START Treaty. Graham voted against the treaty, which passed the Senate by a vote of 71 - 26. "I fear the Obama Administration will blink when the Russians object to our future missile defense plans. To this day, the Russians continue to claim that the Treaty has tied our hands when it comes to deployment of all four stages of strategic missile defense. "The Senate debate was supposed to be the time to clear up these points of contention and confusion. Unfortunately, efforts to do so were defeated. The Treaty was jammed through the lame duck without adequate review and with limited amendments. "We live in a dangerous world. Our nation and allies remain at risk from missile attacks by rogue regimes in Iran and North Korea. America must have a strong, strategic missile defense system. "Finally, I found it very offensive to hear from the Russian government that Russia would back out of the treaty if we changed a single word. In essence they said ‘Take it or Leave It’. I chose to leave it." ####
12.18.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement regarding the vote to repeal the military’s Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell policy. The measure passed the Senate by a vote of 65 - 31 with Graham, a member of the Armed Services Committee, voting in opposition. “I am very disappointed such a major policy change was jammed through the lame duck Congress without the ability to offer one single amendment. This is truly not the way to make such a major change to U.S. military policy. Apparently, the concerns of the Commandant of the Marine Corps, who indicated repealing Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell under these conditions would affect battlefield preparedness potentially leading to increased risk of casualties, were ignored. The Air Force and Army Chief of Staff also advised Congress now was not the time to make such a policy change. “Our nation continues to be involved in two armed conflicts which have taken a heavy toll on our military. To ask our armed forces and their families to absorb these changes in the middle of two major conflicts is both unfair and unwise.” ####
12.15.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his opposition to the draft legislation funding the federal government for Fiscal Year 2011. The measure includes a Graham request for $379,000 in funding for the Port of Charleston harbor deepening study to be conducted by the Army Corp of Engineers. "First, let me say I cannot support the Omnibus spending bill as it increases the size of government when people want to see government become smaller and more efficient. It is full of unnecessary spending which grows the federal government. It also includes more than $1 billion directed toward implementing Obamacare. The nearly 2,000 page, $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill is the result of a dysfunctional Congress and its inability to get our work done in an orderly manner. "During my time in the Senate, I have worked to ensure the needs of our state are met. I have also tried to work in a cooperative manner with my colleagues. I appreciate both the Republican and Democratic members of the Senate Appropriations Committee and Senate leadership who worked with me on this provision. After my many meetings and discussions with them, I think they now understand and appreciate the tremendous importance of the Port to our state, and ultimately, the nation. "They know that one of every five jobs in our state is tied directly or indirectly to the Port of Charleston. They know that the deepening of the harbor will be a job creator in the years ahead. They know the study is the first step in what will be a multi-year project costing an estimated $350 million with the real heavy lifting yet to come. I feel confident in saying the future needs of the Port of Charleston are now on their radar screen. "I will continue to fight for and support the Port of Charleston. But I cannot support this spending bill." ######
12.14.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his support of the bill to extend the Bush tax cuts for another two years. "The Obama Administration agreeing to extend the tax cuts for all Americans is one of the first dividends from the election of more Republicans to the House and Senate. "I have long believed it was absolutely imperative all of the tax cuts be extended. Under this agreement no business or family will see their taxes go up at the start of 2011, as it extends the Bush tax cuts to stay in place for another two years. And while my personal preference would have been to make the tax cuts permanent, we do not have 60 votes in the Senate to make that happen. "Taxes affect the ability of businesses to hire and retain workers. We have a national unemployment rate of 9.8 percent and South Carolina's is even higher at nearly 11 percent. Now is not the time to be raising taxes. If we raise taxes on individuals, families, and businesses in the middle of this weak economy, it makes it much harder to create jobs. "Overall, I think the agreement is a good one for the American people. No agreement is ever perfect and there are, of course, areas I would have liked to see improved. But overall it is worth supporting as it will give certainty to those concerned about what a tax increase would mean to their businesses and family budgets." #####
12.09.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the news that the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort has been awarded squadrons of F-35s. According to the Record of Decision from the U.S. Marine Corps, they will implement Alternative 1, the preferred alternative, which includes basing 3 F-35B operational squadrons and the PTC (Pilot Training Center). The PTC is composed of 2 squadrons, totaling 40 aircraft. “This decision, where the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort receives the nation’s most advanced fighter, will ensure that MCAS Beaufort will be a viable and integral part of the Marine Corps and our national defense as far as the eye can see. Christmas came early this year. “This is wonderful news and I could not be more pleased with today’s announcement. Beaufort has a long and storied history with the Marine Corps. With the decision today, Beaufort will continue to play an integral role in the future of the Corps. “This announcement would not have been possible without the tremendous work of Congressman Wilson, our local elected officials, the Beaufort Chamber of Commerce, the Military Enhancement Committee, and the strong community support. It truly was a team effort. Each of these interests made their own compelling case that Beaufort was the right location for this important mission. “South Carolina has long answered the nation’s call when it comes to the defense and protection of our nation. We should all be proud to know that Beaufort and our state will continue to be on the tip of the spear when it comes to protecting our nation and our interests around the globe.” #####
12.09.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the DREAM Act in the Senate. “Illegal immigration is a nightmare for America. Giving a pathway to citizenship without first securing the border is an inducement to encourage more illegal immigration. This is nothing more than a political game by the Democrats to try and drive a wedge between the Hispanic community and Republicans. “Today’s cynical vote on the DREAM Act, along with a series of other votes, convinces me that the Democratic leadership in the Senate does not get the message from the last election. They care more about politics than policy in a variety of areas, including illegal immigration.” #####
12.08.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on efforts by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to pass legislation that would force South Carolina to accept legalized gaming. “In the final days of this legislative session, it appears Majority Leader Harry Reid is searching for a way to expand internet gambling in the United States. I oppose any federal legislation that would force South Carolina to accept legalized gaming. Ten years ago, South Carolina eliminated video poker. Those days are well behind us, and we must be vigilant in opposing any last-minute efforts in Washington aimed at forcing gambling on South Carolina.” Link: http://www.lasvegassun.com/news/2010/dec/07/reid-pushes-online-poker-bill/ and http://www.politico.com/news/stories/1210/46095.html ####
12.06.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the selection of Bobby Hitt to serve as the next South Carolina Secretary of Commerce. “The nomination of Bobby as South Carolina’s new Secretary of Commerce is a home-run for economic development in our state. I applaud Governor-elect Haley’s decision to put Bobby in this incredibly important position. “Bobby has a firm grasp on the needs of our state. He is among the top-tier of individuals who fully understand the steps that must be taken to grow our economy and create jobs. During his time at BMW, he’s been a great leader and played an instrumental role in navigating the recent expansions of the plant. Bobby knows from his own experience that South Carolina truly is a great place to do business. As our Secretary of Commerce, Bobby can sell the South Carolina story – a right to work state with low taxes and a world-class workforce – to business interests here in the United States and around the globe.” #####
11.18.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been named co-chairman of the 97 member Senate National Guard Caucus. He replaces retiring Senator Kit Bond (R-Missouri). Graham has long fought for better pay and benefits for members of the National Guard. He played an instrumental role in helping Congress approve and former President George W. Bush sign into law better health care benefits for members of the Guard and Reserve. “As co-chairman of the Caucus, I will fight as hard for the National Guard as they fight for us,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “I know first-hand the tremendous work the South Carolina National Guard has done in the War on Terror. I know the sacrifices our citizen-soldiers, and their families, have made on behalf of our nation. I will stand up for their interests as they stand up to protect us. The National Guard Caucus was one of the best things to happen to the Guard in Congress. I hope I can fill the shoes of Senator Bond and the work he has done on behalf of the National Guard for the past 22 years." “I think Senator Graham being selected as the Co-Chair of the Senate National Guard Caucus is outstanding,” said South Carolina Adjutant General Stan Spears. “A proud former member of the South Carolina Air National Guard himself, Senator Graham has long been a staunch supporter of Guard programs. With a champion of National Guard issues in the leadership of this committee, our Guardsmen nationwide are guaranteed to be well taken care of, their issues addresses, and their causes supported.” “Senator Graham has always been an extraordinary advocate for our men and women in uniform,” said South Carolina Adjutant General-elect Robert Livingston. “His background and experience with the National Guard and Reserves makes him an obvious and appropriate choice to Co-Chair the Senate National Guard Caucus.” “Despite the National Guard’s critical dual mission of keeping Americans safe both here at home and overseas, the bean counters in the Pentagon too often overlook our citizen-soldiers, which is why the Senate Guard Caucus is so important,” said Senator Kit Bond who founded the Caucus in 1988. “Senator Graham has long had the back of our warfighters and their families, and I know he will have the back of the National Guard as he assumes the co-chairmanship in the next Congress.” “We at the National Guard Association of the United States congratulate Senator Lindsey Graham on his selection as the Republican co-chair of the Senate National Guard caucus,” said Major General Gus Hargett, President of the National Guard Association of the United States. “Senator Graham has always fought hard for the men and women of the South Carolina National Guard and we know he will now fight just as hard for all 470,000 members of the National Guard from coast to coast. We look forward to rolling up our sleeves and fighting alongside him.” The Senate National Guard Caucus provides strong support to the National Guard through aggressive legislative efforts, as well as intensive work in the appropriations process. The Caucus generally raises awareness of the key challenges that face this force of citizen-warriors. Serving as Caucus co-chair along with Graham is Senator Pat Leahy (D-Vermont). #### Click here for audio/video of Senator Graham being named co-chairman of the Senate National Guard Caucus.
11.17.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the trial of Ahmed Ghailani. "While I respect the judgment of the court, I'm deeply disappointed in the verdict. "We are at war with Al Qaeda. Members of the organization, and their associates, should be treated as warriors, not common criminals. We put our nation at risk by criminalizing the war. "Going forward, I once again strongly encourage the Obama Administration to use military commissions to prosecute enemy combatants, particularly the 9/11 conspirators like Khalid Sheikh Mohammad, held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba." #####
11.16.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 / Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his support of the DeMint earmark moratorium. "As a long-time supporter of earmark reform, I will vote in support of the moratorium. Some earmarks, like the Bridge to Nowhere, have rightfully left Americans angry about how Washington spends their hard-earned tax dollars on projects which serve little, if any, purpose. The earmark moratorium will help ensure projects like these are not allowed to slip through the Congress again. "I know that while some earmarks have been employed for important purposes, like my funding request for the production of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) armored vehicles to protect our troops in battle, there have been abuses. These abuses have led many to question our willingness to get our nation's fiscal house in order. "The South Carolina delegation now has two options at our disposal to ensure the infrastructure needs at the Port of Charleston are addressed 1. Pass Senator DeMint's proposed legislation reforming the way port studies and harbor deepening are funded, or 2. Press the Obama Administration to include the necessary funding for the port study in their budget submission to Congress. "The next five months should give us ample opportunity to achieve one of these objectives. If neither event comes to fruition by early April, I will use every option at my disposal to ensure funding is made available. "I respect the spirit in which this moratorium has been agreed to and hope it will lead to a better use of taxpayer dollars. However, I maintain the right to seek funding to protect our national security or where the jobs and economy of South Carolina are at risk. If the Obama Administration and their bureaucrats in the federal agencies take action against the best interests of South Carolina, I will take swift action to correct their wrongs." Background: • When it comes to the Port of Charleston, time is of the essence. The Charleston Port and its customers need the harbor deeper to meet the demands of new, larger cargo ships that are due to come through the Panama Canal in 2014. • According to port officials, contracts are being negotiated now and if a plan is not in place soon, businesses will not sign with our port. If that happens, South Carolina will lose market share and jobs will be destroyed. • While Senator Graham has worked hard to get funding for the Charleston port study included in this years budget, it appears Congress will pass a continuing resolution. This means funding for the Charleston port study is unlikely at this time. • South Carolina is plagued by one of the highest unemployment rates in the country at nearly 11 percent. The Port of Charleston is both directly and indirectly responsible for every 1 in 5 jobs in the state. • The feasibility study is only the first step in what will be a multi-year process to ensure we have the estimated $300 million in funding needed for this project. #####
11.10.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) BAGHDAD INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT – GLASS HOUSE BAGHDAD, IRAQ SENATORS JOHN MCCAIN, JOSEPH LIEBERMAN, AND LINDSEY GRAHAM PRESS CONFERENCE WITH AMBASSADOR JAMES F. JEFFREY FULL TRANSCRIPT November 9, 2010 AMBASSADOR JEFFREY: Good morning, everybody. It’s my honor here to introduce three distinguished American senators from the Senate Armed Services Committee. They are no strangers here in Iraq: Senator McCain, Senator Lieberman, and Senator Graham have been here many times. Senator Graham has done military service here. They are among the best supporters of Iraq that the United States has, and we are very proud to have them here today. Sir? SENATOR MCCAIN: Thank you very much, Ambassador, and we have been pleased to have another return visit of many that we have made over the years. Senator Graham and Senator Lieberman and I have had the opportunity to meet with the Ambassador, his team, and General Austin, and we continue to appreciate the outstanding job that they and the men and women who serve under them do for our nation and for the freedom of the Iraqi people. We have also had the opportunity to meet with Prime Minister Maliki, Mr. Allawi, and Mr. Abdul-Mahdi. We obviously, like many others, have been disappointed at the lack of progress since the elections were held some eight months ago. Having said that, we are encouraged by the meeting that took place yesterday in Erbil, and then again this evening, here in Baghdad, at 6:00 p.m. We have stated the United States’ position, and our position, which is the same, which is that we need a government that is both inclusive and is representative of the elections, so that the Iraqi people will have confidence in the government that is formed. We hope that in the next few days that there will be an agreement for both power-sharing and inclusion, and a government will get to work as soon as possible. We express our deep sorrow over the massacre of the Christians and also the recent acts of terror committed by al-Qaeda in Najaf and in Karbala. These kinds of actions by al-Qaeda continue to anger us and, at the same time, demonstrate that the job is a long way from done. Senator Lieberman? SENATOR LIEBERMAN: Well, thanks, Senator McCain. It’s good to be back in Iraq. And I must say that the miracle of the emergence of a new Iraq continues on the ground. The economy is doing much better, notwithstanding the continued attempts by al-Qaeda and Iranian-backed Shia extremists to disrupt the progress here. Progress is continuing. And now it’s time for the results of the election that was held in March to be reflected in a new government. It turns out, by a twist of fate, that the three of us are here this week at a very encouraging time. Based on the meetings that we have held yesterday with Mr. Allawi, Mr. Abdul-Mahdi, and today with Prime Minister Maliki, we are now on our way to Erbil to see President Barzani. I am encouraged to believe that the political leadership of this country is about to reach an agreement on a new government. And what is as important as whether they reach an agreement on a new government and when is what the government is. And as Senator McCain said, I think it’s very important – who occupies what positions in the new Iraqi Government is obviously up to the Iraqi political leadership – but most important, I think, from an American perspective, is that it reflect the results of the election in March, which is to say that it be broadly inclusive, and specifically that the leading parties, State of Law and Iraqiya, are represented in the top positions in the new government. Secondly, we have said to our friends – and they really are our friends in the political leadership here in Iraq; we have known them now for years, we have been through hard times and these are better times – that, from the American perspective, it is critically important that the government that results be seen in America as an Iraqi nationalist government, not under any undue influence from Iran or any other countries outside of Iraq. And so, we are encouraged today that that will be the case, and therefore will make it easier for us to continue to do what we have done over the years past, which is to be steadfast in our support of this emergence of a new self-governing, self-defending Iraq in the heart of a region which has, for a long time, been critically important to the national security interest of the United States. Senator Graham? [Helicopter heard overhead.] SENATOR GRAHAM: Right on cue with the helicopter! [Laughter] From my point of view, the formation of the government is within sight, and possible sooner, rather than later. But we’ve got to remember what this opportunity presents for Iraq. It’s a chance to solidify this country’s future for decades to come. A lot of blood and treasure has been spent to get us to this moment. So I have urged every Iraqi leader to think about the future of your country in broad terms, not narrow terms. What does it take for Iraq to survive in the future? It’s got to be accepted by regional partners and players as a legitimate government. What we are talking about here is basically a Shia coalition, an Arab-Shia coalition, governing a Mideast nation for the first time in history. And it has to be broad, and it has to be inclusive. The Sunni-Arab states in this region have to look at Iraq as a friend, a partner, and an ally. And I do believe there is a tremendous amount of future investment potential for Sunni-Arab states in Iraq if the government is formed in a proper manner. This country needs a healthy relationship with Iran. They are their neighbor. We all understand that. And a healthy relationship would be one where Iran respects the sovereignty of Iraq. And the United States, in my view, needs an enduring relationship with this nation called Iraq. We have fought hard alongside the Iraqi people. We have lost over 4,000 young Americans in this fight for freedom. And I hope that we can have an enduring relationship that begins in 2012 with a new agreement that has political, military, and economic cooperation as far as the eye can see. There is a lot of difficulty finding bipartisanship in Washington at this moment on the domestic side, but I am here to say that we have an independent Democrat and two Republicans who are very supportive of what President Obama and his team is trying to do here in forming this new government in Iraq. And I am very proud of what the Administration has been doing. And now is the time to get it done. And I do believe that is possible, if everybody will have a broad vision of Iraq, not a narrow vision of Iraq. SENATOR LIEBERMAN: Hear, hear! QUESTION: Senator Graham, you talked about the best or next course beyond 2012 and how important it is for the U.S. to remain engaged here. Obviously, that will require Congress to approved funds for the remaining agencies... SENATOR GRAHAM: That’s a very good question. QUESTION: ...for the military to remain on the ground, to keep the parties from getting at each others’ throats. SENATOR GRAHAM: Well, the one thing that we have told our Iraqi friends is that we have a new Congress. We had a sea-change election, and a lot of the Members of this new Congress really never spoke about foreign policy. There was never a real debate about what should we do, as a nation, in terms of our future involvement with Iraq? The three of us are committed – and we told Prime Minister Maliki, Abdul-Mahdi, and we will tell Barzani today – that you need to help us. We’re here to help both nations, Iraq and the United States, to make the case for a continued involvement in Iraq. We need to tell our colleagues at home that this new government is broad, inclusive, and it can succeed. To the new Members of Congress: Please understand how important it is for Iraq to become the successful, stable state. It is a sea-change in world politics. This is the place where Muslims took up arms against al-Qaeda and delivered them a decisive blow. But the battle is not yet over, as you can see by the ballots. So, I will do all I can, along with Senators McCain and Lieberman, to persuade our colleagues that we need a continued relationship and investment with this country politically, economically, and militarily. What’s about to happen in Iraq is a game-changer that makes America much safer. This is the place where Muslims stood up to al-Qaeda and said, “No.” This is the place where you can have a democracy between Syria and Iran that will change the future of the Mideast. This is the place where Sunnis and Shia are sitting down together and sharing power, and having a common view of how to move forward with their Kurdish friends. What happens here in Iraq for years to come really is a vital national security interest to the United States. Now is not time to lose sight of that vision. SENATOR LIEBERMAN: Let me just add real, real briefly: it’s no secret that there is budget pressure in the United States. And our ability to continue to deliver the support to Iraq that we need to support, both militarily and diplomatically, will be dependent on the actions of the leaders of Iraq this week, putting this new government together. It’s got to be inclusive, and it cannot seem, from an American view, to be influenced disproportionately by Iran or any other outside government. Secondly, why do I think we have to continue to support the emergence of the new Iraq? I always have in my mind the funerals that I have been to in Connecticut of men and women of the American military who have been killed in action here in Iraq, and the times that their family members, their loved ones, have said to me, “Please, don’t let it be that my loved one died in vain in Iraq.” If we pull out of here too soon and don’t protect the gains we have made, I don’t think we are going to keep the promise to those who gave their lives in defense of freedom for the Iraqi people. QUESTION: [Via translator] Sir, you met all the political leaders here in Iraq. Do you think that the meeting yesterday in Erbil and the meeting today in Baghdad are going to produce a comprehensive and inclusive government here? Do you think that this is close? SENATOR MCCAIN: We are very hopeful. We have reasons for optimism. But we also appreciate that there are still many obstacles. You know very well that yesterday was the first time since the election that all parties have gotten together. So we are guardedly optimistic that in the next few days there will be at least the beginning of a comprehensive agreement, and that obviously means the selection of the speaker, the prime minister and the president. QUESTION: You have all spoken about the inclusivity of government. It appears that the Sadrists are going to play a fairly prominent role in this new government, behind Prime Minister Maliki. I wonder whether that raises concerns for you, given the role they have played in the recent past? SENATOR LIEBERMAN: Yes, right. Right. This question was about whether we’re concerned about the Sadrists being part of the governing coalition. And my answer, of course I am, because of their history. Look, even now, today and this week, in my opinion, Sadrist-backed Shia extremists have been taking violent action against people here in Iraq, including firing at the U.S. embassy compound. So, the relationship – the longer-term strategic relationship – between the United States and Iraq depends on mutual confidence. We said this directly to Prime Minister Maliki, and he was very reassuring to us, basically saying he is an Iraqi nationalist. He will not tolerate any foreign country influencing Iraq’s governance of itself. And I took that specifically also to mean the Sadrists. But we are going to be watching that very closely. And that’s why I repeat again I think it’s critically important that both Mr. Maliki – Prime Minister Maliki’s party and Mr. Allawi’s party, Mr. Allawi and Mr. Maliki personally, be represented in the highest levels of this government. That’s the kind of breadth we need to have the support of the United States and of the majority of countries here in this region. QUESTION: And what of Mr. Allawi for the presidency? SENATOR LIEBERMAN: Well, that’s up to the people who are negotiating now. But certainly, to me, that seems like a logical place to go. And the leaders of Iraqiya that we have met, the party, have been very clear that they hope that they are able to achieve the presidency and work together with Mr. Maliki in a unity government. QUESTION: In case the government formation is delayed further, what is the role that the United States is willing to play? SENATOR MCCAIN: Well, let’s hope that they do make the progress that we anticipate. There are many options in case of failure, but we would consider all those if the situation does not improve. Right now, let’s take the optimistic side and plan on agreement within the next few days. We have to run up to Erbil to meet with President Barzani, and I apologize that we’ve got to go. Thank you very much. SENATOR LIEBERMAN: Thank you. #####
11.03.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of Bob Fulton, the longtime voice of the South Carolina Gamecocks. “Bob Fulton’s passing is not just a blow to Gamecock Nation, but something that will be mourned by all South Carolinians who love college athletics. “There was nothing more exciting than to listen to Bob Fulton describe the trials and tribulations of the South Carolina Gamecocks. He had one of the most recognizable voices in the state and an unmatched passion for the university. Bob Fulton was a fine man, a good friend, and like his friend and colleague Jim Phillips from Clemson, a legend in the South Carolina sports world.” #####
10.08.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the resignation of the President’s National Security Adviser, General James L. Jones. “I very much appreciate the service of General Jones to our nation. I’ve known Jim for many years, and he has a true love of country. He has provided the President valuable and sound national security advice during his tenure. “I believe the President has chosen wisely in the selection of Mr. Donilon to replace General Jones. As Deputy National Security Adviser, Tom is fully aware of the responsibilities ahead and will be able to take up where General Jones left off. In my dealings with Mr. Donilon, I have found him to be very professional, open to suggestions, and fully committed to America’s national security. I look forward to working with him to ensure our nation stays secure. “I will continue to do all in my power to foster bipartisan cooperation when it comes to our national security, the needs of our men and women in uniform, and a successful outcome in the ongoing War on Terror.” #####
09.23.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - Continuing his commitment to the repeal and replace of Obamacare, United States Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced legislation to repeal another major provision of the recently-passed health care law - the Community Living Assistance Services and Support (CLASS) Act. "The CLASS Act is a Ponzi scheme that would make Bernie Madoff blush," said Graham. "It's billed as an insurance program for long-term care, but really it's just a huge and very costly government accounting trick." Graham said: Under the CLASS Act, the government can begin collecting long-term care ‘insurance' premiums in 2011. The CLASS Act won't begin to pay out benefits - at the earliest -- until 2016. The government will use the initial ‘surplus' from CLASS Act to pay for other programs created by the health care bill. By 2025, benefit payments will exceed premium revenues and the CLASS Act will run deficits. American taxpayers will be on the hook to cover the annual shortfalls. The government's chief accountant for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services has even sounded the warning alarm noting the CLASS Act faces, "a significant risk of failure." "To help build momentum for repeal and replace of Obamacare, we should continue holding up all the individual pieces of this monstrosity - like the CLASS Act - to the light of day," said Graham. "The more Americans learn about the details of this health care bill, and provisions like the CLASS Act, the less they like it. The sooner we can repeal and replace Obamacare, the better off our nation will be." Senators Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), John Cornyn (R-Texas), and John McCain (R-Arizona) joined Graham as co-sponsors of the legislation, The Long-Term Care Bailout Prevention Act. #####
09.22.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - The nation's leading organization committed to protecting and promoting the interests of small business today honored U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) with its ‘Guardian of Small Business' award for his 100 percent voting record in support of small business during the 111th Congress. "NFIB members will know that Senator Graham's voting record is one of a true small business champion," said National Federation of Independent Business President and CEO Dan Danner. Founded in 1943 as a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization, NFIB gives small and independent business owners a voice in shaping public policy issues that affect their business. "Small business owners pay close attention to how their lawmakers vote on the issues affecting their businesses," continued Danner. "The ‘Guardian' award is a symbol of sincere appreciation from the small business community for votes that supported their ability to own, operate, and grow their businesses." To view ‘How Congress Voted' which has the key small business votes and voting percentages for each lawmaker, go to http://www.nfib.com/hcv #####
09.22.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) yesterday sent a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano demanding more information regarding the “Backdoor Amnesty” memos circulating at the department. The full text of the letter, signed by Senator Graham and the other six Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, is below. The Honorable Janet Napolitano Secretary Department of Homeland Security Nebraska Avenue Complex 245 Murray Lane, Mailstop 0150 Washington, DC 20528-0150 Dear Secretary Napolitano: We write to you again to express our growing concern about the Department of Homeland Security’s execution of U.S. immigration laws. Several of us have written to you previously about a USCIS memorandum entitled “Administrative Alternatives to Comprehensive Immigration Reform.” We now understand that an additional memorandum, which laid out some of the same proposals for granting immigration benefits to illegal immigrants who are barred from such relief by federal law, and which contained extensive discussions of the political considerations for such actions, was prepared at DHS headquarters for your review earlier this year. As members of the Committee with jurisdiction over immigration and naturalization matters, we ask that you make time before we recess in October to come to Capitol Hill and brief us on these memos and on the department’s recent actions in this area. In response to earlier queries about the USCIS memorandum, you stated that the document was an “internal draft memorandum” that was intended to simply “raise [the] best ideas” of DHS employees and should not be equated with official action by DHS. You have also stated that DHS will not take any action with regard “to the Nation’s entire illegal immigrant population or large classes of such population” to stop the removal of illegal immigrants. These assurances, however, do not address the other proposals contained in these recently-discovered memoranda that would, among other things, evade the current statutory penalties that bar aliens who illegally cross our borders from receiving immigration benefits, or that would allow violators of U.S. immigration laws to use relationships to legal residents or U.S. citizens to obtain immigration benefits to which they are not entitled under the law. These proposals, which are described in both memos, could allow millions of illegal immigrants to stay permanently in the United States. Your assurances also fail to address reports that DHS has adopted a policy of refusing to remove any illegal immigrant who happens to be apprehended if he or she might qualify for relief in legislation—such as the DREAM Act or the AgJobs bill—that has been introduced, but not passed, by Congress. Finally, your assurances do little to assuage our concerns about repeated references in the memoranda to finding other ways, on an administrative level, to make most illegal immigrants in the country legal. Whether or not the proposals in either memo have been officially implemented, it is increasingly clear that this Administration is following the spirit of these proposals by dramatically narrowing its efforts to remove whole classes of illegal immigrants. Last month, for example, ICE decided to prohibit state and local law enforcement from taking illegal aliens into custody when they are stopped, but not arrested, for a traffic violation. More recently, ICE has proposed new guidance that would effectively require state and local authorities to release illegal aliens if the alien’s only violation is his or her illegal status. And earlier this year, ICE issued a policy that discourages deporting, or even apprehending, illegal aliens who have not been convicted of felonies or are not actively obstructing the removal process. We are concerned that, as a result of such policies, illegal immigrants who are being transported through border states and are apprehended by ICE or local authorities would be released into local communities, rather than detained by ICE. ICE has also decided to dismiss approximately 17,000 cases for aliens currently in immigration proceedings if the alien might qualify for some kind of immigration relief. News reports indicate that some regional offices are dismissing any case involving an alien who has been in the United States for more than two years and has not committed a felony. DHS has loudly touted an “expansion” of the Secure Communities program, yet we understand that the department has decided to allow so-called sanctuary cities to continue harboring illegal immigrants in their criminal justice systems by concealing their presence from DHS. And the Administration’s declarations that it will work cooperatively with state and local law enforcement on immigration-related matters ring hollow when the Department of Justice files suit to bar Arizona from enforcing a state law designed to assist the federal government in apprehending illegal immigrants. Madam Secretary, the Administration has made much of Congress’s recent action to provide the executive branch additional dollars for immigration enforcement. But it is difficult to understand how those funds can be well spent if the Administration’s policies deliberately overlook most illegal immigrants or provide for the immediate release of the thousands of illegal immigrants whom DHS deems to be of “low priority.” We ask that you explain as soon as possible to Congress what prompted the memoranda proposing “administrative” methods for “immigration reform” and the policies that have been adopted as a result of these deliberations. The American people deserve to know. We look forward to hearing from you about your availability to brief us before we recess in October. ##### For a copy of the signed letter, click here.
09.13.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was pleased the Senate approved a resolution he introduced recognizing this week, September 12 – September 18, as “National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week.” The Graham resolution calls on Americans to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate support for HBCUs. “Historically Black Colleges and Universities provide quality educational experiences and play a vital role in an increasingly complex and highly technological society,” said Graham. “HBCUs have a rich heritage and have played a prominent role in the history of the United States. Further, they have allowed many students to attain their full potential through higher education. I am pleased the Senate has come together in a bipartisan fashion to recognize the contributions and accomplishments of these institutions.” Two major HBCU Associations – the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) and the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education – were active in supporting the resolution. “HBCUs have a proven record of attracting and graduating talented students, and preparing them for careers of success and service,” said Michael L. Lomax, UNCF president and CEO. “So if America wants to invest in the next generation of college-educated scientists, engineers, teachers, and business leaders, there’s no better investment than HBCUs and the students who attend them.” South Carolina is home to eight Historically Black Colleges and Universities. A complete list can be found at http://www.ed.gov/about/inits/list/whhbcu/edlite-list.html. ####
08.16.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 / Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) has named U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) a ‘Taxpayer Hero.' The organization recently released its latest ratings of Congress. President of CCAGW Tom Schatz said, "Senator Graham put the interests of taxpayers ahead of politics by consistently voting to cut wasteful spending, reduce the tax burden, and make government more accountable to taxpayers. The rating is even more impressive given the record number of votes rated by CCAGW and the record number of representatives who could not vote even once to cut wasteful spending or taxes. While far too many members of Congress demonstrated little regard for the consequences of failing to reduce the record $1.4 trillion deficit and $13 trillion debt, Senator Graham's votes give taxpayers hope for the future." For his defense of the taxpayer and fiscally sound policy, Graham earned a rating of 91 percent. The average rating for a Republican U.S. Senator was 81. The average rating for the U.S. Senate overall was 39. CCAGW examines roll-call votes to separate the taxpayer advocates in Congress from those who favor wasteful programs and pork-barrel spending. CCAGW used 74 key votes in the Senate for this year's rating in order to ascertain accurate reflection of the intensely divided Senate, the Obama administration's pro-spending agenda, and the importance of supporting a pro-taxpayer agenda The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste is the nation's largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government. A full copy of the report is available on their website at www.ccagw.org.
08.10.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of former Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska). “I’m very sad to hear of the passing of former Senator Ted Stevens. Senator Stevens was a decorated World War II veteran, and he was truly loved by the people of Alaska. “As the longest serving Republican Senator in history, he lived a life of incredible accomplishment. He will be greatly missed. “I also want to extend my thoughts and prayers to all the families involved and affected by this tragic plane crash.” ####
08.04.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has cosponsored legislation to dramatically reduce the paperwork burden placed on small businesses in South Carolina under the Obama health care plan. Under the health care law, small businesses, churches, charities, and state and local governments, would be required to track their purchases and file 1099 forms with the IRS for every transaction with another business over $600. This includes everything from office supplies to basic services. “The health care bill had many terrible provisions and this is among the worst,” said Graham. “The paperwork requirement the Obama health care bill will put on even the smallest businesses in South Carolina will be devastating. Instead of small business owners spending their time growing their business, they will spend time filling out more government paperwork.” “I appreciate Senator [Mike] Johanns’ introduction of this important legislation and am hopeful we will soon take it up in the Senate,” said Graham. “Passage of this legislation will take a tremendous burden off the backs of small businesses. The paperwork burden is yet another example of why the Obama health care bill should be repealed and replaced.” The legislation is S.3578, The Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act, by Senator Mike Johanns (R-Nebraska). Senator Graham is one of 19 co-sponsors of the legislation. ####
08.03.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) and Center for Constitutional Rights (CCR) court challenge to the regulation restricting their ability to contest the Obama Administration’s authorization of a ‘Kill or Capture’ policy against Anwar Al-Awlaki should be rejected. Graham further stated that the Treasury Department should reject the ACLU and CCR request for a license to provide legal services to Al-Awlaki’s benefit. Al-Awlaki, a radical Muslim cleric with strong ties to Al-Qaeda, is believed to be hiding in Yemen. Al-Awlaki is an American citizen. “Al-Awlaki is far more than the ‘Toyko Rose’ of our times,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “He’s actively engaged in training and encouraging terrorists to kill Americans. I hope the Obama Administration will actively resist these efforts to challenge his ‘Specially Designated Global Terrorist’ designation. It is well-deserved designation for Mr. Awlaki.” Graham also expressed concern that the ACLU’s effort would ultimately seek to take away the power to use lethal force against imminent threats to our nation from the Commander in Chief and instead have these decisions made by federal judges not trained in assessing military threats. “Giving this power to untrained federal judges would be a huge mistake in the War on Terror,” said Graham. “We are fighting a war and the Commander in Chief needs this tool to protect us from real and imminent threats to our nation.” “Al-Awlaki has espoused death and destruction to our country and American citizens,” said Graham. “He is believed to have ties to the Ft. Hood shooter, the Christmas Day bomber, and the Times Square bombing plot. He has pledged an oath of loyalty to the leader of al-Qaeda’s Yemeni branch and helped create terrorist training camps in Yemen. He’s been raising money for terrorist activities and recruiting individuals to engage in acts of terrorism. The Obama Administration’s decision to designate him a global terrorist is amply supported by the public record.” “I fear the ACLU’s desire to restrict the battlefield in the War on Terror and limit the Commander in Chief’s options will do great damage to our national security,” said Graham. “I hope the Treasury and Justice Departments will vigorously resist the ACLU and CCRs actions to micromanage the war effort.” #####
07.28.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased legislation reducing the disparities in sentencing for crack versus powder cocaine is on its way to the White House. In March, Graham worked in the Senate Judiciary Committee to broker a compromise between Senators Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah) and Dick Durbin (D-Illinois) which allowed the legislation to move forward and receive a unanimous vote in committee. The legislation has since passed the Senate and today passed the U.S. House of Representatives. Under current law, five grams of crack triggers a mandatory five-year prison sentence. It requires 500 grams of powder cocaine to receive an equal five year mandatory sentence. The disparity in sentencing is 100 to 1 and the new law will reduce it to 18 to 1. “When this was passed, Congress felt that crack cocaine was a plague that was destroying minority communities,” said Graham. “Over time we have seen that this policy, while well-intentioned, also created negative unintended consequences. Through the years we have seen a significant number of African-American males sentenced to longer prison sentences for possessing crack cocaine instead of powder. “The law created inequities,” said Graham. “We have found a balance that recognizes and addresses the problem. We will roll back the injustice that was done. This is a good example of where Congress recognized there was a problem, and worked together to find a solution. I’m pleased this legislation is now on its way to the President for his signature.” ####
07.27.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his opposition to the DISCLOSE Act. "The DISCLOSE Act is a political sham. It seeks to impose new campaign laws right before an election, a rare occurrence in American politics. At the end of the day, it's really all about partisan advantage. "I think it's also a bit odd that President Obama would lecture the Congress on this issue. In 2008, he broke his promise to accept public financing in the presidential race and then proceeded to raise $750 million. For him to now express concern about money in politics is a little late." #####
07.26.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today wrote to Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vermont) requesting a hearing on the investigation into voter intimidation by the New Black Panther Party. Graham has publicly expressed concern about the Department of Justice's handling of this matter. The full text of the letter, signed by Senator Graham and other Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee, is below. The Honorable Patrick J. Leahy Chairman Committee on the Judiciary United States Senate Washington, D.C. 20510 We write to express concern about the politicization of the Civil Rights Division within the Department of Justice and ask that you schedule a hearing in order for the Committee to exercise its proper oversight function. On July 6, 2010, J. Christian Adams, the lead DOJ attorney who prosecuted the New Black Panther Party (NBPP) for intimidating Philadelphia voters, testified before the United States Commission on Civil Rights (USCCR). In sworn testimony, Mr. Adams confirmed that various political appointees overruled a unanimous recommendation by six career DOJ attorneys that prosecution of members of the NBPP should continue. Mr. Adams testified that within the DOJ Civil Rights Division, “not only was their open hostility toward equal enforcement in a colorblind way of the voting rights laws, but instructions were given in this regard.” As you are aware, the USCCR’s investigation stems from an incident on November 4, 2008 in which two members of the NBPP were intimidating voters at a polling station in Philadelphia. Video taken at the scene shows both individuals were dressed in paramilitary uniforms and one man was actually brandishing a nightstick. According to the USSCR, both men “hurled racial epithets at whites and blacks alike, taunting poll watchers and poll observers who were there to aid voters.” Long time civil rights attorney Bartle Bull was at the polling place that morning and called the incident “the most blatant form of voter intimidation” he had ever seen. Despite DOJ having won a default judgment in this case, political appointees voluntarily dismissed several of the defendants. Furthermore, against the defendant brandishing a nightstick, DOJ sought only an injunction, which bars him from displaying a weapon within 100 feet of a Philadelphia polling place for the three years. Unfortunately, allegations of misconduct by certain political appointees are not limited to the decision to dismiss this case. Tom Perez, Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Rights Division, testified before the USCCR that the facts and law did not support moving forward with the NBPP case. Mr. Adams has revealed that that career attorneys “made it very clear [to Perez] that continuing to say that the facts and the law don’t support this case would not be consistent with the truth.” Additionally, according to Mr. Adams testimony, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Julie Fernandes instructed Civil Rights Division attorneys that they would not pursue voter intimidation cases involving black defendants and white victims. Ms. Fernandes also reportedly told the Voting Section that DOJ has “no interest” in enforcing Section 8 of the National Voter Registration Act because it has “nothing to do with increasing turnout.” Section 8 vests the Attorney General with the power to ensure that states are complying with the law by removing dead and duplicate voters from the roles. If these alarming allegations are true, the Civil Rights Division is actively engaged in widespread politicization and possible corruption. This Committee has a duty to investigate such serious allegations that strike at the heart of the Department’s integrity. Unfortunately, the Department of Justice continues to stonewall the USCCR by refusing to honor the subpoena issued for Christopher Coates, former chief of the Voting Rights Section. It is imperative that you schedule a hearing immediately so we can determine the validity of these claims and whether DOJ, as Mr. Adams testified, “abetted wrongdoers and abandoned law-abiding citizens.” Given the importance of this oversight matter, we believe that holding a hearing on this issue should take priority over other Committee business. ##### To see a signed copy of the letter, click here.
07.22.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the conclusion of the Senate Appropriations Committee markup of the Energy and Water appropriations bill. The committee did not include a $400,000 earmark request for the Port of Charleston to study deepening Charleston Harbor. The bill will now be sent to the full Senate. “I will continue to push for the inclusion of this very important congressional directive,” said Graham. “The earmark is a relatively small dollar amount in a nearly $3 trillion federal budget. However, it carries huge importance for the future of the Port of Charleston and thousands of jobs in our state.” Graham noted the Port is responsible for an estimated 260,800 jobs in South Carolina, $11.8 billion in wages, and $1.5 billion in state and local taxes. “A lot has been said and written about earmark abuse and the need for reform,” said Graham. “I agree and have joined with Senator DeMint, McCain and others to bring about real reform including greater transparency. However, the decision as to whether or not the Corps of Engineers will be directed to study how to deepen Charleston Harbor must be made now.” “We literally have tens of thousands of jobs across South Carolina and millions of dollars in business riding on this decision,” said Graham. “We have no recourse. If we don’t get this done now, the impact on businesses in our state will be devastating.” The harbor was last widened from a depth of 40 feet to 45 feet in 2004. The State Ports Authority and its customers need it deeper to meet the demands of new, larger cargo ships that are due to come through the Panama Canal in 2014. Graham noted that because of certain sequencing issues related to the Army Corps of Engineers and how they handle dredging projects, if Charleston does not receive the earmark this year, it will put the port at a competitive disadvantage. Charleston’s East Coast competitors -- Savannah, Norfolk, Miami, Wilmington, and New York -- will have a leg-up as they have already secured study funding in this legislation where Charleston is currently being disregarded. “The State Ports Authority cannot start the study because they do not have the legal authority to do so,” said Graham. “Only the Army Corps has the authority. The $400,000 appropriation is essential this year to ensure we do not fall behind our competitors. It’s important we give them the green light.” “I will continue to do my part to ensure the port receives the ongoing funding it needs today and in the future to remain competitive and viable in the years ahead,” said Graham. ######
07.20.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with British Prime Minister David Cameron. “I very much enjoyed meeting with Prime Minister Cameron. I had the pleasure of getting to know the Prime Minister when I attended the Conservative Party Conference in England several years ago. “During our meeting today we discussed the way forward in Afghanistan, the coming transition of power in Iraq, and the importance of containing Iran’s nuclear ambitions. From my numerous visits to the Middle East, I cannot overstate how important our alliance with Great Britain has been. “Our soldiers view their British counterparts as some of the finest in the world. And like us, they have suffered great losses in both Afghanistan and Iraq. I hope and believe President Obama and Prime Minister Cameron will be able to work together effectively on our common national security interests. “Prime Minister Cameron is an incredibly bright, articulate voice for conservatism. He helped revive the conservative movement in England. He is now proving to be an effective leader in trying to persuade his countrymen to get serious about government entitlements and spending. I think there is much we can learn from his efforts and apply to our own nation’s spending habits.” #####
07.20.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Citing the Constitutional and historical role the Senate has played in Supreme Court nominations, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he would support the nomination of Elena Kagan. “No one, outside of maybe John McCain, spent more time trying to beat President Obama than I did,” said Graham. “But we lost and President Obama won.” Graham cited Alexander Hamilton’s Federalist Number 76 in listing the reasons he would vote for Kagan. Graham noted Hamilton wrote, “To what purpose then require the cooperation of the Senate? I answer that the necessity of their concurrence would have a powerful, though in general a silent operation. It would be an excellent check upon a spirit of favoritism in the president, would tend generally to prevent the appointment of unfit characters from family connection, from personal attachment, and from a view to popularity.” “The Constitution puts a requirement on me, as a senator, to not replace my judgment for the President’s,” said Graham. “I’m not supposed to think of the 100 reasons I would pick somebody different. It puts upon me a standard that stood the test of time: Is the person qualified? Is it a person of good character? Are they someone that understands the difference between being a judge and a politician? And, quite frankly, I think she's passed all those tests.” “Are we taking the language of the Constitution that stood the test of time and putting a political standard in the place of a constitutional standard?” asked Graham. “Objectively speaking, things are changing, and they're unnerving to me. The court is the most fragile of the three branches. So while it is our responsibility to challenge and scrutinize the court, it is also our obligation to honor elections, respect elections, and protect the court.” “I view my role as a United States Senator in part by protecting the independence of the judiciary, and by making sure that hard-fought elections have meaning in terms of their results within our Constitution,” said Graham. “At the end of the day, Ms. Kagan is not someone I would have chosen, but I think she will serve honorably.” #####
07.20.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against an effort to cut off debate on a Democratic plan to extend unemployment benefits. The measure passed by a vote of 60-40 and a final vote is expected later this week. Graham said the plan put forth by the Democratic leadership does not pay for the unemployment benefit extension and adds $34 billion to the debt which future generations will be responsible for paying back. “There is plenty of room in a $3 trillion dollar budget to find $34 billion to help the unemployed,” said Graham. “This was a lost opportunity for Congress to help people who are out of work and future generations who already are responsible for paying back more debt than they can handle. “I have always believed with a bit of effort, we could have found a way to pay for this extension without adding to our national debt,” said Graham. “But every time that proposal came up, the Democratic leadership quickly shot it down. “As a nation, we continue to borrow, borrow, and borrow some more,” concluded Graham. “If we don’t put a stop to it, I fear our ever-increasing amounts of borrowing will eventually drive the country into the ground.” ####
07.20.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) To read a copy of the leter from Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan to Senator Graham regarding Miguel Estrada, click here.
07.15.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today sent this letter to Attorney General Eric Holder on the trial of the 9/11 conspirators. The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General United States Department of Justice 950 Constitution Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20510 Dear Attorney General Holder: I understand the great difficulty in dealing with the detainees currently held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, but the difficult choices facing you should not impede our nation’s efforts to bring to justice those responsible for the attacks of September 11, 2001. I agree with your comment this past weekend that “justice has been denied too long.” However, I would like to remind you that the decision of when and where to try the September 11 co-conspirators currently rests with you. On November 13, 2009, you announced the Department of Justice’s intention to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his co-conspirators in civilian court in New York City. That decision was met with overwhelming opposition not only from New Yorkers but from Americans across the country. Shortly after your announcement, the White House indicated your decision would undergo further review. In your testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee on April 14, 2010, you stated that “New York is not off the table” as a potential trial venue, and that you expected to have a decision “in a number of weeks.” However, months have gone by, and the Department of Justice has failed to reach a decision on where the perpetrators of the September 11 attacks will be tried. As part of the enemy force that attacked our nation, these individuals should be tried for war crimes by the recently reformed military commissions system signed into law by President Obama. They should be held accountable for their actions now. Mr. Attorney General, if Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is not worthy of trial by military commission, exactly who would be? I believe that civilian trials have a place in the war on terror and in some specific instances may be preferable to military tribunals. However, when it comes to those who planned the vicious September 11 attack on our nation, the use of civilian trials seriously undermines the war effort. I believe I speak for the majority of Americans and the Congress on this point. As we have discussed in the past, the law of war allows this country to detain members and supporters of al Qaeda until the end of hostilities. The Obama Administration has identified at least 48 law of war detainees who are too dangerous to release but not subject to trial by either military commission or civilian court. Each detainee in this category has the opportunity to appear before a federal judge in a habeas proceeding. Trying the September 11 co-conspirators in civilian court would not only be a logistical nightmare and an enormous expense for taxpayers, but would harm our national security by criminalizing the war. I am proud of the work we have done together to reform the Military Commissions Act, and I appreciate your acknowledgement of the professionalism of our military legal community and the value of military tribunals. They can and should be used to prosecute the September 11 co-conspirators fairly and quickly. The failure of the Department of Justice to make a decision on where the September 11 conspirators will stand trial is unacceptable. As you know, I introduced legislation to prohibit the use of Department of Justice funds for the prosecution of these individuals in federal district court. This legislation is modeled after an amendment I offered in November 2009. While the amendment failed to receive sufficient support then, the measure has garnered new support. Please advise me of the progress in the review of your prosecution decision. The American people deserve certainty as to the Obama Administration’s venue preference for the trial of the September 11 co-conspirators. Thank you for your consideration. To access a copy of the letter, click here. #####
07.09.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the China currency report issued by the Treasury Department yesterday. In the report, the Obama Administration again declined to label China a currency manipulator. Graham said: "China recently made minor changes in currency policy. These were more political gestures, not true reform. "It is very clear to me the only way America can effectively deal with the Chinese government manipulation of their currency is for Congress to act. Both Republican and Democratic Administrations have refused to state the obvious - China manipulates its currency to produce an advantage in the marketplace. Their advantage comes at the expense of American workers and other nations. "The Executive branch seems to be ineffective or unable to alter Chinese currency policy. This report reinforces the only remedy available is for Congress to pass legislation addressing currency manipulation. The distortion of the Chinese currency has gone on too long and cost too many American jobs." #####
07.07.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Department of Justice (DOJ) lawsuit against the state of Arizona. "I believe the DOJ lawsuit will be counter-productive when it comes to finding a solution to our immigration problems. It is clear the people of Arizona believe the federal government has let them down when it comes to securing our border. And most Americans feel strongly that we must make sincere and meaningful efforts to secure our borders now. “The people of Arizona are not the problem. It is the failure of the federal government to secure our borders that is the real problem. “The resources being dedicated to this lawsuit should be directed to border security. Once progress is made securing our border, our nation can look to comprehensive reform. “The raging war in Mexico between the government and drug cartels has dramatically increased violence along the border. More resources should be deployed to that area. It should include more National Guard troops, Border Patrol agents, unmanned aerial vehicles, and other security measures.” #####
06.30.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the University of South Carolina’s national championship in baseball. “As a graduate of the University of South Carolina, I know what a historic achievement this is for the school and state. Last night’s win in the College World Series was the first men’s national championship in any sport for the university. “The Gamecocks performance in the College World Series, and really throughout the entire Road to Omaha, was the epitome of ‘team.’ Great pitching, timely hitting, and a never-quit attitude defined this team. These young men believed in each other and have brought credit to themselves, the University of South Carolina, and our state. “Last night’s exciting game between USC and UCLA was a fitting tribute to the last College World Series game to be played at Rosenblatt Stadium. It represented the best of college baseball and amateur athletics in general. “Congratulations to Coach Tanner, his staff, and the players. We are very proud of their tremendous achievement.” #####
06.29.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today challenged the comments of Speaker Nancy Pelosi who says in a recent interview that the United States will see “a serious drawdown’ of forces in Afghanistan and that the House may use the power of the purse to ensure a drawdown takes place. Pelosi made these statements in an interview with the Huffington Post. “In some of the strongest terms she has used to date, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared last Friday that the United States will see "a serious drawdown" of forces in Afghanistan by July 2011 and that the House may use the power of the purse to ensure the drawdown takes place. “In an exclusive interview with the Huffington Post, Pelosi made clear that while recent talk has hinted that the administration's stated goal of a June 2011 start date for a troop drawdown may be open to change, her commitment to it remains firm. "I think we'll have a serious drawdown, I don't think it'll be, as [the president] said, turning out the lights," said Pelosi. Asked point-blank whether she thinks troops will be pulled out of the country in July 2011, Pelosi replied: "I do. And everything I saw there before, for all the bad things there that I saw in terms of [corruption and money wasted] ... I did consistently hear that the timetable was on schedule to have serious drawdown." Graham, who strongly supports the Afghan mission, made these statements in response: “The Democratic-controlled House, led by Speaker Pelosi, is wrong to stipulate withdrawal of troops or a strategy for withdrawal beginning in July 2011 as a condition for further funding of the Afghan war effort. “Requiring withdrawal from Afghanistan by July 2011 would be one of the greatest foreign policy blunders in American history. Pulling out would seriously undercut our troops. “In his testimony today, General Petreaus indicated that congressionally-mandated withdrawal would undercut our efforts and send a foreboding signal to our friends and enemies in the region. “The Obama Administration has advanced an incoherent policy regarding the July 2011 troop withdrawal. That is bad enough. But to have Congress impose a mandated withdrawal as the price for future funding of the war would be a complete disaster. “I hope the President will make it clear he will veto any such measure.” #####
06.10.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of the Murkowski Amendment, which would prohibit the EPA from regulating greenhouse gas emissions. The amendment failed by a vote of 47-53. In the U.S. Supreme Court's 2007 decision Massachusetts v. EPA, the Court ruled carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases should be regulated as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. “EPA regulation of carbon is the worst possible scenario,” said Graham. “It is a disaster for businesses and consumers. The EPA will put burdens on them they cannot handle. This is a balance-of-power issue and it has long been clear to me that Congress should write the rules when it comes to the regulation of carbon, not the EPA. “We can find a business-friendly way to limit carbon pollution that creates jobs while lessening our dependence on foreign oil,” said Graham. “I believe it is a noble endeavor for our country to pursue the cleanest air and purest water in the world. But the worst way to reach those worthy goals is through heavy-handed EPA regulation.” ##### To watch Senator Graham discuss the topic on the floor, click here.
05.27.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate Armed Services Committee vote to repeal ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.’ The vote was 16 to 12 in support of repeal. Graham opposed the effort. “The Committee’s decision to repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell before we receive input from the military is a serious mistake. This action is contrary to the agreement we had reached earlier in the year. “No one is fooled by what they’re doing here. The Speaker of the House reached a compromise with certain Senate Democrats to go ahead and repeal Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell before the November elections. “Our men and women in uniform are already heavily laden, and I'm worried about how this change will affect them. It seems very unfair, at a time when the nation is involved in two wars, to make this dramatic change without the input of all our service members, including our enlisted personnel. “Once Congress decides to repeal the law, I believe requesting input in the future will be seen as a joke by our service members. “The biggest mistake the Committee made was trying to convince our men and women in uniform that we care what they think when, by our actions today, we clearly do not. They deserve better.” #####
05.26.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on congressional efforts to move ahead with a vote on repeal of ‘Don't Ask, Don't Tell.' Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "I do not support the idea of repealing Don't Ask, Don't Tell before our military members and commanders complete their review. This so-called compromise would repeal the legislation first then receive input from the military. This is not the proper way to change any policy, particularly something as controversial as Don't Ask, Don't Tell." #####
05.21.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia decision refusing to give prisoners at an American military base in Afghanistan the same legal right to challenge their imprisonment as detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The three-judge panel ruled that U.S. courts do not have jurisdiction over the legal petitions by the prisoners at the Bagram base and ordered their cases be dismissed. Graham said: "This is a big win. I am very pleased with and relieved by this decision from the court of appeals. It was a well-reasoned, strongly supportive statement of our men and women serving overseas fighting the War on Terror. "I also truly appreciate the Obama Administration for standing firm and opposing the lower court ruling. "Allowing a non-citizen enemy combatant detained in a combat zone access to American courts would have been a change of historic proportions. It also would have dealt a severe blow to our war effort. There is a reason we have never allowed enemy prisoners detained overseas in an active war zone to sue in federal court for their release. It simply makes no sense and would be the ultimate act of turning the war into a crime. Our men and women in uniform are fighting a war, not a crime, and the court of appeals today reaffirmed that distinction." #####
05.18.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with Supreme Court nominee Elena Kagan. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “Ms. Kagan is not someone a Republican president would have chosen for a position on the Supreme Court. However the questions the country and Senate will be required to answer are whether she is qualified for the job, possesses the appropriate temperament, and whether her judicial philosophy is within the mainstream of American jurisprudence. It is very important for a nominee to understand the difference between the role of a judge who interprets the law and an elected official who writes the law. “We had a good meeting and discussed her qualifications and background in the law. We also discussed legal issues related to the War on Terror and positions she has taken in her position as Solicitor General. On many of these issues, we found common agreement.” Judicial Experience: “I do not believe that prior judicial experience is a prerequisite for sitting on the Court. Some of the most distinguished justices in history, such as the former Chief Justice of the United States William Rehnquist, did not have prior experience. “However, Ms. Kagan’s lack of a judicial record will make the hearings even more important. Because she has no judicial decisions to review, her writings and opinions on issues regarding the law will be closely scrutinized. These documents will provide the committee and country a window into her judicial philosophy, qualifications and temperament. On Military Recruitment: “Ms. Kagan explained to me that any position she took regarding military recruitment at Harvard should not be taken as a lack of respect for the U.S. Armed Forces. She noted that her father was a World War II veteran. I take her at her word that she respects the military and our men and women serving in uniform.” #####
05.13.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today opposed the nomination of Goodwin Liu to the 9th Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco. The vote was 12-7 to forward the nomination to the full Senate for consideration. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I am a big believer in the concept that elections do have consequences. But I also believe a U.S. Senator has an obligation to ensure nominees to the Court of Appeals understand the difference between an elected official, whose job it is to write laws, and a judge, whose job it is to uphold them. “I am convinced that Professor Liu does not understand or appreciate this difference. His writings are very disturbing. Professor Liu consistently points to various constitutional clauses that he believes empower a judge to be the ‘righter’ of social wrongs. “My opposition to Professor Liu’s nomination is not a disagreement over judicial philosophy, as I expect this Administration to put forward judges with whom I disagree. Instead, my opposition to Professor Liu is based on a deep-seated disagreement over the proper role of a judge in our democratic society. “In Professor Liu’s world, the Constitution places virtually no limits on the role of a judge to impose their opinion on almost every area of life. This leads me to one conclusion – Professor Liu should be in elected politics, not in court as a judge.” ##### To see video of Senator Graham discussing his vote in the Judiciary Committe, click here.
05.12.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the introduction of the American Power Act. "I have enjoyed working with Senators Kerry and Lieberman to create a new model for our nation in the areas of energy independence, job creation, and providing Americans with the cleanest air and purest water on the planet. "When it comes to our nation's policy on energy independence and pollution control, I don't believe any American finds the status quo acceptable. Many senators from both parties have stated that Congress should set energy and carbon pollution policy, not the EPA. I could not agree more. "While I have not seen the changes made by Senators Kerry and Lieberman to the final product, I look forward to reviewing their proposal in regards to offshore drilling, the transportation sector, and other issues. "I believe the broad concepts we came up with before are transformational and are the most consumer and business-friendly effort to date in dealing with carbon pollution. Most importantly, they can serve as a framework in allowing America to lead in the creation of alternative energy jobs and significantly reducing our dependency on foreign oil. With these goals in mind, I am interested in carefully reviewing the details of the new proposal. Offshore Drilling, American-Controlled Sources of Energy, and EPA Regulation "Abandoning drilling and fossil fuels is not a realistic option. However, it is imperative that we pause to find out what led to the historic oil spill in the Gulf and ensure that it never happens again. The reality still remains that fossil fuels will be required in America for decades to come. "The percentage of foreign oil we consume in the United States continues to grow, with almost half coming from OPEC nations. It is better, from a national security perspective, to break our dependence on foreign oil by safely exploring for domestic oil and gas. We must begin to transform our economy and begin the process of becoming energy independent as soon as possible. I want America to lead the world in the coming energy revolution, not follow. The Path Forward "I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to improve upon these concepts and find a pathway forward on energy independence, job creation, and a cleaner environment. We should move forward in a reasoned, thoughtful manner and in a political climate which gives us the best chance at success. The problems created by the historic oil spill in the Gulf, along with the uncertainty of immigration politics, have made it extremely difficult for transformational legislation in the area of energy and climate to garner bipartisan support at this time." #####
05.11.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after Southwest Airlines announced they plan to offer service to Charleston and Greenville starting in 2011. “I have personally met with and been in communication with Southwest Airlines for some time making sure they were aware of our interest. And I was very pleased when I got the call this morning from Southwest CEO Gary Kelly about the news. “Southwest Airlines beginning service to South Carolina is good news for our state, our economy, and the traveling public. We look forward to welcoming Southwest Airlines to the home of Smiling Faces, Beautiful Places.” #####
05.10.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Elena Kagan to serve as a Justice on the Supreme Court. "Solicitor General Kagan has a strong academic background in the law. I have been generally pleased with her job performance as Solicitor General, particularly regarding legal issues related to the War on Terror. I look forward to meeting her again, this time to discuss her qualifications to sit on the highest court in the land. "As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I intend to be fair and firm in my questioning of the nominee. The hearings can be a valuable public service as they give us a window into the nominee’s judicial philosophy and disposition. I hope we will have a meaningful opportunity to explore the qualifications, judicial temperament and judicial philosophy of Ms. Kagan." ####
05.07.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on cap-and-trade, offshore drilling, and future prospects of energy reform legislation. On the Death of Cap-and-Trade "The House-passed cap and trade bill is dead. It has been replaced by a new model that focuses on energy independence, job creation and cleaner air. "I appreciate the work of Senators Kerry and Lieberman who have been good allies in trying to move this debate in a new, more productive direction. I am particularly proud of the efforts we have made in creating a renaissance in nuclear power which leads to energy security and fosters job creation. "As I have previously indicated, a serious debate on energy legislation is significantly compromised with the cynical politics of comprehensive immigration reform hanging over the Senate. In addition to immigration, we now have to deal with a catastrophic oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico which creates new policy and political challenges not envisioned in our original discussions. In light of this, I believe it would be wise to pause the process and reassess where we stand." On Offshore Drilling and Gulf Coast Disaster "Some believe the oil spill has enhanced the chances energy legislation will succeed. I do not share their view. Our original legislation included an expansion of off shore drilling with revenue sharing. It doesn't take long for one to conclude that opposition to expanded offshore drilling with revenue sharing has grown among certain Senate Democrats. Some have even declared energy legislation "dead on arrival" if it contains an expansion of offshore drilling. I respect their position and I know they are sincere in their beliefs. However, I have come to a different conclusion on the issue and strongly believe that in order to become energy independent we must include these options. "When it comes to getting 60 votes for legislation that includes additional oil and gas drilling with revenue sharing, the climb has gotten steeper because of the oil spill. "I remain committed to safely expanding offshore drilling because I know oil will be part of our nation's energy plan for years to come. Every barrel we can find in the United States is one less we have to import from OPEC. And today, some of the dollars we spend on imported oil find their way into the hands of terrorists who wish to harm our nation. "As a Senator from a coastal state, and in light of the historic oil spill off the coast of Louisiana, I think it makes sense to find out what happened, enact safety measures to prevent similar accidents from occurring in the future, and then build consensus for the expanded offshore drilling our nation needs." Future Prospects for Energy Legislation "When it comes to our nation's policy on energy independence and pollution control, I don't believe any American finds the status quo acceptable. Many senators from both parties have stated that Congress should set energy and carbon pollution policy, not the EPA. I could not agree more. Therefore, we should move forward in a reasoned, thoughtful manner and in a political climate which gives us the best chance at success. Regrettably, in my view, this has become impossible in the current environment. "I believe there could be more than 60 votes for this bipartisan concept in the future. But there are not nearly 60 votes today and I do not see them materializing until we deal with the uncertainty of the immigration debate and the consequences of the oil spill." #####
05.05.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these comments on reports President Obama is contacting Republican Senators encouraging them to join the partisan effort to address immigration. “I wonder if the president is reaching out to Democratic Senators too? I believe there are at least a double-digit number of Democratic Senators who would not support comprehensive immigration reform with a pathway to citizenship today. Has the President brought Senators Webb, Nelson (NE), Baucus, Byrd, McCaskill, Tester, Dorgan, Pryor, and Bingaman on board? They did not support comprehensive immigration reform in 2007, but have supported stronger border security. What about Senators Lincoln and Conrad, who voted in support of the 2007 effort. Are they on board now? “Let’s be clear, the lack of support for comprehensive immigration reform is not a Republican problem, it is an institutional problem. There is just not the appetite – on either side of the aisle – for this issue right now. “Until we secure the border, that dynamic is unlikely to change. Americans have made it clear they want to see the border secured now. I believe there are 80 votes for a border security bill this year and that is where we should focus our efforts. Congressional passage of border security this year helps build support for comprehensive reform in the future. “I also think it is incredibly disappointing that our Democratic colleagues brought this issue up for apparent partisan gain just months before an election. This raw display of partisanship just makes it more difficult to address this very serious problem in the future.” #####
04.29.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jon Kyl (R-Arizona) today made the following statement in response to the immigration reform proposal announced by Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid and other Democratic Senators: "A conceptual paper that promises everything to everyone is not the same as responsible legislation that compiles the best ideas from both sides of the aisle. The Senate Democrats' proposal is nothing more than an attempt to score political points. It poisons the well for those of us who are working toward a more secure border and responsible, bipartisan reform of our immigration laws. "What is being billed as a comprehensive immigration and enforcement package, is actually far more permissive than the 2007 bill. It doesn't provide the funding to ensure that the border is actually secured, it doesn't end chain migration, and there is no real temporary worker program. Both of us have been involved in serious efforts to pass comprehensive immigration reform, and believe, given the increase in violence along the border, that additional border security measures must be funded immediately. "Since 2007, threats have increased, some border technology has failed, and the American people have lost confidence in the federal government's ability to secure our borders. So it is our belief that Congress should focus on border security first and that will eventually allow Congress to seriously consider bipartisan immigration reform, instead of politically-motivated ‘conceptual papers.' "Most of the border enforcement measures that have been proven effective can be achieved by appropriating necessary funding. We need to work on a bipartisan basis to get this done." ###
04.22.2010	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced and passed through the Senate Budget Committee an amendment to prevent $44 billion remaining in TARP from being spent. The vote on the Graham Amendment was 12-11. “I voted for the initial installment of TARP to prevent a meltdown of our financial system,” Graham said. “Since those days, TARP has taken on a life and flavor no one ever envisioned.” Graham noted that the Senate budget resolution uses the remaining $44 billion from TARP on other spending items not associated with the restoring the financial system. “If you would have told me at the time I voted for it that TARP would be used to bail out car companies, I wouldn’t have supported it,” said Graham. “The $44 billion remaining in TARP is becoming a slush fund. I am pleased the Senate Budget Committee passed my amendment to address this problem.” ####
04.09.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the retirement of Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens. "While I disagreed with many of Justice Stevens' decisions, I respect his long service on the court. I look forward to reviewing the qualifications and record of the President's nominee to replace Justice Stevens, the leader of the liberal bloc of the court. I expect the Judiciary Committee hearings on the next nominee to be civil, deliberative, thorough, challenging, and informative." #####
03.31.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Obama Administration’s proposal to open additional areas to offshore drilling. “I listened with great interest to President Obama’s speech encouraging the nation to adopt comprehensive policies which allow us to become energy independent. I intend to answer the call by working with my Republican and Democratic Senate colleagues to put our nation on a pathway to energy independence and a cleaner environment. “I thought the President’s speech correctly emphasized the national security aspects of this problem. He did a very good job of explaining the challenges we face and how our own national security is placed at increased risk by our reliance on foreign oil. “The time has come for our nation to embrace comprehensive, game-changing energy policies which lead to energy independence. The incremental changes we have adopted in the past have simply led to more and more dependence on foreign oil. “My goal for comprehensive energy legislation has been to achieve three objectives – energy independence, the creation of clean jobs, and having the cleanest air on the planet. As Americans, we deserve nothing less. Proposal on Drilling: “As to the Obama Administration’s proposal for environmentally sound offshore exploration for American oil and natural gas, this is a good first step. But there is more that must be done to make this proposal meaningful and the game-changer we all want it to become. “Among the areas we still need to address – encouraging states to allow exploration by sharing a portion of the revenue raised from oil and gas drilling, opening even more areas of the Eastern Gulf to exploration, the inclusion of viable drilling sites in the Atlantic and Pacific, and expanding the list of areas we inventory for possible reservoirs of oil and gas. “It is a national disgrace that as a nation we are more dependent on foreign oil today than we were before 9/11. Drilling is an important piece to making our nation more energy independent as every barrel of oil or gallon of gas we find or produce in America is one less we need to purchase from regimes who hate us. But I realize we cannot simply drill our way to energy independence. “We need a comprehensive energy strategy for our nation that breaks our addiction to foreign oil. We need a robust expansion of nuclear power. We need to price carbon in a consumer-friendly manner to help speed along the exciting, new technologies out there. We need to promote energy efficiency for our homes and businesses. “It should be our national goal to once and for all break our addiction and unhealthy dependence on foreign oil. But that will not happen if we believe the status quo is good enough.” #####
03.22.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after the House of Representatives passed health care reform today. "The Democrats may have won today in the House of Representatives, but the American people lost. Higher taxes, more government control of health care, and Enron-style accounting define this bill. The upcoming elections will be a referendum on the substance and process used to pass it. I believe it will be a clear choice. Republicans will pick up a lot of votes from people who think this is bad for their business, their family, and the process used to pass it was sleazy. "I am committed to repealing this multi-trillion dollar health care nightmare and replacing it with bipartisan reform that will lower costs and improve access." ####
03.19.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on health care reform and its affect on immigration reform. “The first casualty of the Democratic health care bill will be immigration reform. If the health care bill goes through this weekend, that will, in my view, pretty much kill any chance of immigration reform passing the Senate this year.” ####
03.19.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Kelvin Washington being confirmed as the United States Marshal for the District of South Carolina. Before becoming Marshal, Washington served as Sheriff of Williamsburg County. “Kelvin was an outstanding choice to serve as U.S. Marshal for South Carolina. He has a distinguished law enforcement background, and I know he will serve both the state and nation with distinction. I was proud to support his nomination.” ####
03.18.2010	Our immigration system is badly broken. Although our borders have become far more secure in recent years, too many people seeking illegal entry get through. We have no way to track whether the millions who enter the United States on valid visas each year leave when they are supposed to. And employers are burdened by a complicated system for verifying workers' immigration status. Last week we met with President Obama to discuss our draft framework for action on immigration. We expressed our belief that America's security and economic well-being depend on enacting sensible immigration policies. The answer is simple: Americans overwhelmingly oppose illegal immigration and support legal immigration. Throughout our history, immigrants have contributed to making this country more vibrant and economically dynamic. Once it is clear that in 20 years our nation will not again confront the specter of another 11 million people coming here illegally, Americans will embrace more welcoming immigration policies. Our plan has four pillars: requiring biometric Social Security cards to ensure that illegal workers cannot get jobs; fulfilling and strengthening our commitments on border security and interior enforcement; creating a process for admitting temporary workers; and implementing a tough but fair path to legalization for those already here. Besides border security, ending illegal immigration will also require an effective employment verification system that holds employers accountable for hiring illegal workers. A tamper-proof ID system would dramatically decrease illegal immigration, experts have said, and would reduce the government revenue lost when employers and workers here illegally fail to pay taxes. We would require all U.S. citizens and legal immigrants who want jobs to obtain a high-tech, fraud-proof Social Security card. Each card's unique biometric identifier would be stored only on the card; no government database would house everyone's information. The cards would not contain any private information, medical information or tracking devices. The card would be a high-tech version of the Social Security card that citizens already have. Prospective employers would be responsible for swiping the cards through a machine to confirm a person's identity and immigration status. Employers who refused to swipe the card or who otherwise knowingly hired unauthorized workers would face stiff fines and, for repeat offenses, prison sentences. We propose a zero-tolerance policy for gang members, smugglers, terrorists and those who commit other felonies after coming here illegally. We would bolster recent efforts to secure our borders by increasing the Border Patrol's staffing and funding for infrastructure and technology. More personnel would be deployed to the border immediately to fill gaps in apprehension capabilities. Other steps include expanding domestic enforcement to better apprehend and deport those who commit crimes and completing an entry-exit system that tracks people who enter the United States on legal visas and reports those who overstay their visas to law enforcement databases. Ending illegal immigration, however, cannot be the sole objective of reform. Developing a rational legal immigration system is essential to ensuring America's future economic prosperity. Ensuring economic prosperity requires attracting the world's best and brightest. Our legislation would award green cards to immigrants who receive a PhD or master's degree in science, technology, engineering or math from a U.S. university. It makes no sense to educate the world's future inventors and entrepreneurs and then force them to leave when they are able to contribute to our economy. Our blueprint also creates a rational system for admitting lower-skilled workers. Our current system prohibits lower-skilled immigrants from coming here to earn money and then returning home. Our framework would facilitate this desired circular migration by allowing employers to hire immigrants if they can show they were unsuccessful in recruiting an American to fill an open position; allowing more lower-skilled immigrants to come here when our economy is creating jobs and fewer in a recession; and permitting workers who have succeeded in the workplace, and contributed to their communities over many years, the chance to earn a green card. For the 11 million immigrants already in this country illegally, we would provide a tough but fair path forward. They would be required to admit they broke the law and to pay their debt to society by performing community service and paying fines and back taxes. These people would be required to pass background checks and be proficient in English before going to the back of the line of prospective immigrants to earn the opportunity to work toward lawful permanent residence. The American people deserve more than empty rhetoric and impractical calls for mass deportation. We urge the public and our colleagues to join our bipartisan efforts in enacting these reforms.
03.11.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today met with President Obama and Senator Charles Schumer (D-New York) to discuss immigration. President Obama invited the Senators to the White House. “We had a productive meeting with the President and provided him with a status report on our work on this issue. “Our framework remains a work in progress. The President welcomed the framework and indicated that he needs time to review the structure. We will share our ideas with our colleagues in the weeks ahead, so we can finally solve this difficult problem. The one goal above all others I am committed to is making sure our efforts break the seemingly endless cycle of illegal immigration once and for all. “Senator Schumer and I have explored some ideas on how we could effectively move forward on this issue. This includes living up to our commitments to secure the our nation’s borders, pushing to move our nation toward a biometric Social Security card to ensure illegal workers cannot get jobs, creation of a temporary worker program and a rational plan to deal with the millions of illegal immigrants already in the United States. “Senator Schumer and I also noted to the President our progress in completing the framework has been slowed by issues we need his team and him personally to actively engage on. The President committed to help resolve outstanding issues as well as seek bipartisan support for moving forward. These include ‘virtual fencing’ along the southern border which has proven much more complex and difficult to implement than originally expected. The Administration must make this a priority as securing our borders is a confidence building measure in the eyes of the American people. I also encouraged the Administration to become engaged with the unions on the creation of a temporary worker program which meets the needs of business community. “I expressed, in no uncertain terms, my belief that immigration reform could come to a halt for the year if health care reconciliation goes forward. For more than a year, health care has sucked most of the energy out of the room. Using reconciliation to push health care through will make it much harder for Congress to come together on a topic as important as immigration. “Senator Schumer and I told the President we will continue to work on this issue. Our immigration system remains broken and in desperate need of repair. We need workable and enforceable immigration laws that protect our national security and our economic well-being. Success on a comprehensive solution will require a broad, bipartisan coalition working together. We understand building that coalition will require time and strong leadership and involvement from the President, the business community, labor and all corners of American society.” #####
03.01.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today was recognized for his outstanding pro-taxpayer voting record last year. The 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union (NTU), a nonpartisan citizen group, announced that Graham is one of fifteen Senators who earned the ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award’ for his votes in the U.S. Senate. “Given today’s economic climate, fiscal discipline is more important now than ever,” NTU President Duane Parde. “Fortunately, taxpayers have a staunch ally in Lindsey Graham, to whom National Taxpayers Union is proud to present a ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award.’” The award is given to Senators who achieve an ‘A’ grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a ‘Taxpayer Score’ to each Senator that indicates his or her support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. For 2009, a total of 227 Senate votes were selected. “Lindsey Graham’s pro-taxpayer score of 90 percent was one of the best in the entire Congress,” Parde continued. “By voting time and again to reduce federal spending, taxes, and debt, Senator Graham has led by example in the fight to defend overburdened taxpayers across the country.” Between 2008 and 2009, the average ‘Taxpayer Score’ in the House rose slightly from 36 percent to 38 percent. The Senate’s average increased from 32 percent to 39 percent. In 2009, only 55 lawmakers out of the 535 in the Senate and House attainted scores sufficient to win the “Taxpayers’ Friend Award” (earning at least 90 percent in the House or Senate). Meanwhile, 267 Senators and Representatives captured the title of ‘Big Spender’ for posting ‘F’ grades (scores of 15 percent or less in the House and 16 percent or less in the Senate). “If every Member of Congress were as principled as Lindsey Graham, current and future generations of Americans could enjoy much lower taxes and a less wasteful government,” Parde concluded. “Hard-working families in South Carolina and across the nation owe Lindsey Graham a debt of gratitude for his effort on their behalf. Senator Graham has truly earned the title ‘Taxpayers’ Friend.’” NTU is a nonpartisan, nonprofit citizen group founded in 1969 to work for lower taxes, smaller government, and economic freedom at all levels. Note: The 2009 Rating and a searchable Rating database dating back to 1992 is available at www.ntu.org. ####
02.23.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was recognized by the American Conservative Union (ACU) for his votes in the last session of the U.S. Senate. The group termed him an ‘ACU Conservative." Graham voted the conservative position 88 percent of the time in 2009 and has a lifetime conservative rating from ACU of 90 percent. The Senate, on average, voted the conservative position 40.63 percent of the time in 2009. ACU, which describes itself as the largest and strongest grassroots conservative organization, serves as the umbrella organization for conservatives in America. According to ACU, the ratings, “track a wide range of issues before Congress to determine which issues and votes serve as a dividing line to help separate those Members of the U.S. House and Senate who protect liberty as conservatives and those who are truly liberal. The ratings have throughout the years become a go-to guide to determine whether an elected official’s philosophical rhetoric matches his or her record.” Among the conservative votes Graham cast that were part of the group’s 2009 scorecard: Preventing the release of the second installment of $350 billion in TARP funding. Instituting a ‘spending freeze’ for most domestic spending programs at the previous years funding level. Supporting an extension of the Bush tax cuts. Blocking efforts to undo the ‘Mexico City Policy’ which would have allowed funding of U.S. aid organizations which promote abortion. Requiring 60 votes to approve unauthorized ‘earmarks’ and requiring disclosure of lobbying by earmark recipients. Opposing the Obama economic stimulus plan. Supporting gun owners in the District of Columbia by lifting the ban on firearms ownership. Barring the use of federal funds to re-instate the Fairness Doctrine. Pushing for legislative transparency by requiring that legislation be available for public review for five days. Opposition to the Obama Administration’s ‘Cash for Clunkers’ program Opposition to the government takeover of our health care system proposed by the Obama Administration and congressional Democrats. #####
02.17.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the one-year anniversary of the $787 billion stimulus package. Graham voted against the bill. “The President is fighting a losing battle trying to convince the American people his gigantic stimulus package was a success. No amount of political spin will change the fact the bill created more government than jobs and dramatically increased our national debt. It’s no wonder his appeals are falling on deaf ears. “One year after the passage of the stimulus we have lost millions of jobs and dramatically increased our national debt. All of this could have been avoided if President Obama and the Democrats in Congress had really sought out bipartisan solutions to the economic problems facing our nation. The sooner they face up to this fact, the better.” #####
02.16.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), one of the strongest supporters of nuclear energy in the Senate, today made this statement on President Obama's announcement of $8 billion in loan guarantees for the construction of new nuclear power plants. "This is a significant step forward in jump-starting what I hope will be a renaissance in nuclear energy. Nuclear energy has been and remains a safe, affordable, carbon-free, clean energy power source. And a renaissance in nuclear energy will create thousands of high-paying jobs. "South Carolina is uniquely positioned to be one of the states which benefits the most from a renaissance in nuclear energy. Today, almost half of the electricity generated in our state comes from nuclear energy. Several companies have already made it clear they would like to construct at least four new nuclear reactors in South Carolina (we have seven already). As a state, we have the workforce and expertise to excel in this area. "About 20 percent of our power in the United States comes from nuclear energy. In France, 80 percent of their power comes from nuclear energy. Surely we can be as bold as the French. "Today's announcement is a good first step. I hope we can build upon the progress which has been made today." #####
02.04.2010	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), and John McCain (R-Arizona) called on their colleagues to support a one-year earmark moratorium and a Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment. The national debt is more than $12 trillion, the President’s budget predicts a $1.6 trillion deficit this year, and the unfunded liability to pay for entitlements in the future exceeds $100 trillion. According to the Congressional Research Service, last year’s pork-barrel spending included 11,320 earmarks totaling nearly $32 billion. Cosponsors of both measures include Senators DeMint, Graham, Coburn, McCain, George LeMieux (R-Florida), Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Mike Crapo (R-Idaho), James Risch (R-Idaho), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), John Cornyn (R-Texas), and John Ensign (R-Nevada). “Our nation is headed for a fiscal catastrophe and we must take bold action to keep the politicians in Washington from running us off the cliff,” said Senator DeMint. “Americans want real action to reduce spending, not rhetoric and not gimmicks. They know earmarks are at the heart of the spending addiction in Congress and they cannot understand why we don’t have to balance the budget, just like they have to. These two measures will force Congress to shut down the favor factory and begin the process of bold, long-term budget reform. We hear a lot of talk about the need to be fiscally responsible these days, but very few actually do anything about it. We’re giving our colleagues a chance to back up their rhetoric with action.” “I believe, now more than ever, the only way Congress will ever really balance the budget is with a Constitutional amendment requiring us to do so,” said Senator Graham. “South Carolina has a balanced budget amendment in our state constitution that serves us well. Requiring the state legislature and governor to make difficult spending decisions – not pass the buck on to future generations – is an important, but necessary responsibility. Now is the time for Congress to do likewise. “The earmark moratorium would place a one year freeze on all earmarks and send a strong signal to the American people that we are serious about reining in excess spending. Through these measures, I hope we will instill some confidence in the American people that we understand the dire need to get our nation's financial house in order and are working to change the way the people's business is conducted.” “It is abundantly clear that the time has come for us to eliminate the corrupt, wasteful practice of earmarking and establish some commonsense budgetary guidelines to live within our means,” said Senator McCain. “Families all over America are tightening their belts and not wasting their money on ‘wants’ in order to ensure they have the funds available to cover their ‘needs.’ We must do the same. The American people are counting on us to represent their interests, not the special interests, and to stop wasting their hard-earned tax dollars.” “Congress will never take the big steps of reforming entitlements when we can’t take the small steps of saying no to earmarks and wasteful spending. Earmarks are the gateway drug to spending addiction in Washington. A one-year earmark moratorium and a Balanced Budget Amendment are two ways Congress could begin its journey toward fiscal sobriety and responsibility,” said Dr. Coburn. Earmark Moratorium If passed, the earmark moratorium would prohibit the Senate from considering any legislation that contains earmarks (as defined in Rule 44 of the Standing Rules of the Senate). The Senate could waive the moratorium with a two-thirds majority. President Obama supported an identical earmark moratorium in 2008 when he was running for president. At that time, he said, “We can no longer accept a process that doles out earmarks based on a member of Congress’ seniority, rather than the merit of the project.” Unfortunately, the measure was defeated in the Senate on March 13, 2008 by a vote of 29 to 71. Balanced Budget Amendment If ratified, the amendment would not allow the federal government to spend more than it collects each year. In limited circumstances, such as during a time of war, Congress can waive the balanced budget requirement with a two-thirds majority. The amendment also would make it more difficult for Congress to increase the burden on the taxpayer by requiring a two-thirds majority vote to raise taxes. In order to become law, the amendment must be passed by two-thirds of both the House of Representative and the Senate, and then be ratified by two-thirds of the states. A decade ago, a similar version of the BBA passed the House of Representatives but failed in the Senate by a single vote. Forty-nine states currently have a balanced budget requirement. ####
02.03.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports the Christmas Day Bomber, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, is now cooperating with the FBI. Graham said: “I am glad it now appears that Abdulmutallab is cooperating with federal authorities. However, for the Obama Administration to suggest the practice of providing an enemy combatant with a lawyer upon capture leads to more effective interrogations is ridiculous. It also ignores the fact that Abdulmutallab’s family was flown from Nigeria to the United States to meet with and encourage him to cooperate. I dare say it would be unwise to count on future enemy combatants to have sympathetic family members who provide information to our government before an enemy combatant carries out their mission or after they are apprehended. “The whole process of criminalizing the war is misguided. There is a reason why we have never given unlawful enemy combatants legal counsel at the time of capture. The impact of that decision is that it makes our nation less safe. It was a mistake to read him Miranda rights after he was apprehended and to suggest otherwise is just political spin.” #####
02.02.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona), Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut), Jim Webb (D-Virginia), Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), Blanche Lincoln (D-Arkansas), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), John Barrasso (R-Wyoming) and others today introduced bipartisan legislation cutting off funding for the trials of the 9/11 conspirators in civilian court. The bill, which has 22 Senate cosponsors, takes the first step towards protecting the security of the American people from inappropriate trials in domestic criminal courts. In a press conference earlier today the Senators all supported trial by military commission. The Senators said: "I believe it is inappropriate to give the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks the same constitutional rights as an American citizen,” said Senator Lindsey Graham. “It has never been done in the history of warfare and now is not the time to start. Military commissions are the proper venue for the trial of KSM and the other 9/11 conspirators. Civilian trials, which the Obama Administration has proposed, will be unnecessarily dangerous, legally messy, confusing to our own troops who fight and capture terrorists on the battlefield, and very expensive. Also, at the end of the day, do we really want to give KSM the biggest microphone in the world to spread his message of hate? I certainly do not. The Senate should pass this important legislation." “We should not put our citizens at risk by trying terrorists in civilian communities within the United States,” said Senator John McCain. “Congress and the Administration created military commissions for terrorists like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in Guantanamo Bay. Trying terrorists in civilian courts would be a long, drawn-out process, costing hundreds of millions of taxpayer dollars in the wrong venue when we have a military tribunal in Guantanamo designed to handle such terrorists.” “As the Chairman of the Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, I am particularly concerned about the homeland security implications of trying Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his alleged 9/11 co-conspirators in civilian courts in the United States,” said Senator Lieberman. “To do so would needlessly expose Americans to increased risks of terrorist attacks and hundreds of millions of dollars in costs to provide the necessary security. Trying these alleged war criminals as common criminals is justice according to Alice in Wonderland – common sense and justice turned upside down.” “We have confused place with process. At issue here is how we try these individuals,” said Senator Webb. “Military commissions, with the additional procedural rules added by Congress and enacted by President Obama, are the most appropriate venue for trying individuals adjudged to be enemy combatants. The first step in addressing this matter in a very serious way is to support Senator Graham’s legislation and move away from the idea of trying these dangerous law-of-war detainees as common criminals.” Judiciary Committee ranking member, Senator Sessions, said, “Simply moving the 9/11 trials from New York City is not a solution. As long as these trials are in civilian court they will bring severe costs and dangers with them wherever they go. There is only one venue change—and one policy—that will work: military commissions. For that reason, I am joining with my colleagues today to introduce bipartisan legislation that bars funding for the civilian trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his cohorts. These trials are simply too misguided, too costly, and too dangerous. We must not treat terrorism as a matter of routine law enforcement—and we must not treat terrorists like the innocent civilians they target." “My primary concern is providing for the safety and security of our nation and its citizens and I believe conducting military tribunals is the most effective means to accomplish that goal in these cases. In my view, their alleged acts against our country warrant trying these individuals in military court,” said Senator Lincoln. “Trying these conspirators in civilian courts is giving them a public stage to advocate their cause. Carrying out these civilian trials also has the potential to compromise classified intelligence which could put our national security and the American people at great risk.” “Regrettably, as we’ve seen with the Christmas Day bomber, the Administration has systematically chosen to treat brutal terrorists as common criminals with the same rights as every American,” said Senator Hatch. “Today, I was please to joined with a diverse, bipartisan group of Senators to send the Obama Administration a very clear message: it’s time to abandon these plans for putting the 9-11 terrorists through our civilian courts and put them through the military commission system where they belong. If the Administration does not reverse course, then Congress should prohibit the Justice Department from using funds to bring the 9-11 terrorists to the United States for trial.” “Our nation is engaged in military conflicts overseas as a result of those who planned and executed the attack on September 11, 2001,” said Senator Chambliss. “We should not give those terrorists the same constitutional rights granted to our citizens, and we should not give them a platform from which to spew their hatred toward America. These terrorists should not be treated any differently than those caught on the battlefield.” “The Administration’s decision to try the 9/11 terrorists in civilian court is beyond irresponsible. These people are at war against the United States and our values. They deserve a military judge and jury, not a soap box and a megaphone,” said Senator Barrasso. “Yesterday, when the President discussed America’s staggering $1.6 trillion deficit, he encouraged Congress to suggest additional ways to save government money. If he was truly serious about this request, he will support this bill. This President inherited a state of the art, safe and secure venue to house and prosecute the 9-11 conspirators. He should use it.” The bill was introduced today with the following cosponsors: U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee), John Barrasso (R-Wyoming), Robert Bennett (R-Utah), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Bob Corker (R-Tennessee), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), Orrin Hatch (R-Utah), Mike Johanns (R-Nebraska), Jon Kyl (R-Arizona), Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut), Blanche Lincoln (D-Arkansas), John McCain (R-Arizona), Mitch McConnell (R-Kentucky), Mark Pryor (D-Arkansas), Pat Roberts (R-Kansas), Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), John Thune (R-South Dakota), David Vitter (R-Louisiana) and Jim Webb (D-Virginia). Congressman Frank Wolf will be introducing bipartisan companion legislation in the House. #####
01.29.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports the Obama Administration is discussing moving the trial of Khalid Sheikh Mohammad (KSM) and the 9/11 conspirators from New York City. Next week, Graham will introduce bipartisan legislation to cut off funding for the trials of the 9/11 conspirators in federal, civilian court. He favors and continues to push for trial by military commission. Graham said: “Moving the trial out of New York City addresses only half the problem. Khalid Sheikh Mohammad and the 9/11 conspirators should be tried by military commission – not civilian court where they will be given the same legal rights as American citizens. “The decision to prosecute enemy combatants like Khalid Sheikh Mohammad who were captured on foreign battlefields in civilian court is without precedent in our nation’s history. It should not stand.” #####
01.28.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today supported Ben Bernanke for a second term as Chairman of the Federal Reserve. “I remember what it was like in the fall of 2008 when the stock market went down nearly a thousand points and we had major financial institutions failing one after another. Chairman Bernanke and a few others came up with a game plan to avert a complete financial meltdown that would have led to a second Great Depression. Had we not acted to stabilize the financial system, I believe things today would be even worse. “Unemployment continues to rise in South Carolina and I know people in our state are hurting. The economy today is not where any of us want it to be. I think it is unfair though to try and hold Chairman Bernanke responsible for all our economic problems. There is plenty of blame to go around. “I do not agree with every decision he’s made as Chairman, and I think we can bring more transparency to its operations. I have already co-sponsored legislation for an audit of the Fed’s activities. But on balance, I think he’s been a steady hand at the tiller. And the last thing the American economy needs is a change in Federal Reserve leadership which could create tremendous disruption and uncertainty throughout our financial system.” #####
01.27.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement. "I appreciate the President personally. But we have serious philosophical differences on some of the biggest issues facing our nation. "On health care, I believe the people of Massachusetts spoke for the entire nation when they said ‘no' to the Democratic health care bill. It was too big in scope, added hundreds of billions of dollars to the deficit, increased taxes and cut Medicare in a fashion that did not put the program on sound financial footing in years to come. I look forward to working on a new way forward on health care -- more modest in scope -- that will focus on lowering the health care costs for Americans. "I believe energy independence is one of the defining issues of our time. Last year we spent nearly $400 billion on foreign oil and now find ourselves more dependent on overseas supplies than at any other time in our nation's history. Sometimes our money even goes to fund enemies bent on our destruction. I will continue working with the Obama Administration and my colleagues in the Senate to create an energy independent nation. As Americans we deserve to have the cleanest air, cleanest water, and not be reliant on a volatile and unpredictable region for our energy supplies. It is a national imperative we get this done. "Finally, the 9/11 conspirators should be tried by military commission, not by civilian court. I will do everything in my power to oppose this Administration's decision to give terror suspects like Khalid Sheikh Mohammad the same rights in court as American citizens. The decision to prosecute enemy combatants captured on foreign battlefields in civilian court is without precedent in our nation's history. "We remain a nation at war. I remain concerned that by bringing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorists responsible for 9/11 to the federal courthouse in lower Manhattan -- only blocks away from where the Twin Towers once stood -- we will be providing them one of the most visible platforms in the world to exalt their past acts and to rally others in support of further terrorism. Such a trial would almost certainly become a recruitment and radicalization tool for those who wish us harm. "I know that as a nation we have more difficult days ahead. I'll do what I can to find common ground on the serious issues facing us, but I also remain prepared to say ‘no' when I must." #####
01.27.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on energy independence and climate change efforts. "The energy legislation that was passed by the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee is not strong enough to lead us to energy independence. The climate change legislation passed by the House of Representatives and Senate Environment and Public Works Committee is too onerous on business and does not enjoy bipartisan support. "My goal is to continue working with Senators Kerry, Lieberman and my Senate colleagues to create a new pathway forward that focuses on a more robust energy security package and a more business-friendly climate legislation. "I am committed to finding a new way forward as I believe energy security is a short and long-term job creator for our country. Clean air is a shared value by both parties and all Americans. I remain hopeful after discussing this matter with conservation groups, businesses, and Senate colleagues we can be successful this year." #####
01.26.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), Blanche Lincoln (D-AR), Susan Collins (R-ME), Jim Webb (D-VA), and John McCain (R-AZ) today called on U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to reverse his decision to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other alleged conspirators in the September 11, 2001 attacks in civilian court rather than military commissions. The full text of the letter is below. January 26, 2010 The Honorable Eric H. Holder, Jr. Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20530-0001 Dear Mr. Attorney General: In light of recent events, we write to express our continuing concerns regarding the policies of this Administration with respect to those prisoners now detained at Guantanamo, and also any others who in the future might be charged with acts of international terrorism. We remain particularly concerned about using the U.S. criminal justice system for trying enemy combatants. Of special importance due to time constraints and location, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and the other alleged conspirators in the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The attacks of 9/11 were acts of war, and those who planned and carried out those attacks are war criminals. Today, those who subscribe to the same violent ideology as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed continue to plan and execute attacks against innocent civilians all over the world. It is not in our national interest to provide them further publicity or additional advantage. We and many others have already expressed serious concerns about whether a trial in civilian court might compromise classified evidence, including revealing sources and methods used by our intelligence community. We are also very concerned that, by bringing Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and other terrorists responsible for 9/11 to the federal courthouse in lower Manhattan, only blocks away from where the Twin Towers once stood, you will be providing them one of the most visible platforms in the world to exalt their past acts and to rally others in support of further terrorism. Such a trial would almost certainly become a recruitment and radicalization tool for those who wish us harm. The security and other risks inherent in holding the trial in New York City are reflected in Mayor Bloomberg's recent letter to the administration advising that New York City will be required to spend more than $200 million per year in security measures for the trial. As Mayor Bloomberg and Police Commissioner Kelly know too well, the threat of terrorist acts in New York City is a daily challenge. Holding Khalid Sheikh Mohammed's trial in that city, and trying other enemy combatants in venues such as Washington, DC and northern Virginia, would unnecessarily increase the burden of facing those challenges, including the increased risk of terrorist attacks. As you acknowledged in your testimony before the Senate Judiciary Committee in November, your decision to prosecute enemy combatants captured on foreign battlefields like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed is without precedent in our nation's history. The challenges of containing and defeating international terrorism do not give us the proper moment to break that precedent. Given the risks and costs, it is far more logical, cost-effective, and strategically wise to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in the military commissions that Congress and the President have now established for that very purpose.
01.22.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports the Obama Administration is prepared to hold nearly 50 Guantanamo detainees in preventative detention. Preventative detention is a status that will be used to hold terror suspects who are too dangerous to release but cannot be tried by military tribunal or in civilian court. Graham said: “I appreciate the Administration’s recognition that nearly 50 Guantanamo detainees are too dangerous to release and will not face traditional prosecutions either by military commission or in civilian courts. Some want our nation to adopt a ‘Try or Release’ policy in regards to detainees. I strongly oppose that approach and am glad the Obama Administration has rejected it as well. With the percentage of former Guantanamo detainees who have returned to the fight soaring to 20 percent, we must not be hesitant to detain those who pose a real threat to our national security. “However, much more work remains when it comes to holding enemy combatants indefinitely. The Administration should work with Congress to develop and pass a law to indefinitely hold detainees off the battlefield. It should be a national security-centric system, based on the law of armed conflict. “Military law allows the indefinite detention of enemy prisoners, and I have no problem holding these dangerous terror suspects indefinitely. However, I realize that since this may be a war without end, it would be wise to create a statutory process laying out rules for long-term detention of enemy combatants that reinforce the President’s authority to detain combatants during a time of war. “I am in the process of drafting legislation dealing with the issue of preventative detention. This is a complex area of the law, but my goals are simple – to create a legal system which recognizes that we have been and remain at war, provide a mechanism for future detentions of those apprehended on the battlefield, demonstrate that detention of terror suspects is not arbitrary or unjust, and strengthen procedures to protect classified information. “Additionally, closing Guantanamo will be incredibly difficult until you have a rational plan to address long term detention. “Remember, these detainees are warriors, not common criminals. They should be treated as such, and the legal system we use to detain them must be built around that concept.” ####
01.20.2010	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), John McCain (R-AZ), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Jim DeMint (R-SC), and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) today wrote to the state Attorneys' General currently investigating the ‘Cornhusker Kickback' encouraging them to expand the scope of their investigation to include the Florida provision protecting some seniors in that state from reductions in Medicare Advantage coverage. Under the Senate health care bill, seniors in specific counties in the State of Florida currently enrolled in Medicare Advantage will have their current benefits "grandfathered" into the program. The approximately 10 million other Medicare Advantage enrollees across the United States will not be as fortunate and will be subjected to significant cuts in their benefits. Medicare Advantage is the privately-managed option that one fifth of seniors have already chosen instead of traditional fee-for-service Medicare. The program offers seniors a choice in how their Medicare benefits are delivered. Medicare Advantage more closely resembles the insurance plans that many of these beneficiaries had as workers. Some of these plans also cover benefits that fee-for-service Medicare does not; for example, dental and vision benefits, hearing aids, chronic care management, and reduced beneficiary cost sharing. Medicare Advantage plans cover approximately 329,000 senior enrollees in Arizona, 176,000 in Georgia, and 111,000 in South Carolina. The text of the letter is below. Dear Attorney General, We appreciate the time and hard work you have put into analyzing the unusual, if not unprecedented, provision in the Senate health care bill in regards to Nebraska's future Medicaid expenses. Your legal analysis regarding the unequal treatment of the states by the federal government has helped us better understand and hopefully address some of the negative consequences of the legislation. We would also like to request that you investigate, and if the facts again warrant, expand the scope of your investigation to include another serious issue -- the unusual and disparate treatment of individuals currently enrolled in the Medicare Advantage program. Medicare Advantage, as you may know, is the privately-managed option that one fifth of seniors have already chosen instead of traditional fee-for-service Medicare. The program offers seniors a choice in how their Medicare benefits are delivered. Medicare Advantage more closely resembles the insurance plans that many of these beneficiaries had as workers. Some of these plans also cover benefits that fee-for-service Medicare does not; for example, dental and vision benefits, hearing aids, chronic care management, and reduced beneficiary cost sharing. Medicare Advantage enrollment represents about 329,000 seniors in Arizona, 176,000 in Georgia, and 111,000 in South Carolina. As currently written, Section 3201(g) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act appears to have been drafted in such a manner that it would effectively "grandfather" Medicare Advantage enrollees living in specific counties in the State of Florida into the program, while subjecting approximately 10 million Medicare Advantage enrollees across the US to significant cuts in their benefits. Medicare Advantage enrollees in other states are likely to see their Medicare Advantage program benefits drastically slashed, if not virtually eliminated. In many cases, they may have no choice but to switch back to fee-for-service Medicare, which brings with it additional financial burdens such as unlimited out-of-pocket expenses and gaps in coverage that often require the purchase of supplemental insurance. We have serious concerns about the effects of this provision on all Medicare Advantage beneficiaries who do not reside in these specific Florida counties. We would like your opinion on this situation and would be interested to learn of any legal issues that you believe could be posed to the unequal Medicare Advantage policy that will be enacted under this legislation. We also want to be clear that our problem is not with Medicare Advantage enrollees in the State of Florida, it is with the disparate treatment that enrollees in other states will receive in relation to enrollees in Florida. We thank you in advance for your consideration and look forward to receiving your analysis of this specific provision and its impact on the residents of our states and seniors nationwide. #####
01.07.2010	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today wrote to President Obama expressing their concern over several areas of Administration policy regarding detainees. Major points of their letter include: Encouraging the Obama Administration to immediately halt detainee transfers to countries with a significant al Qaeda presence, including Afghanistan, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Algeria and Sudan. The Obama Administration has already halted the transfer of detainees to Yemen. Pointing out the detainee release process appears to be marred by a lack of clearly defined criteria and insufficient coordination among the Departments of Justice, Defense, and State. The Senators also noted “questionable assurances” from some foreign governments about their plans for the continued detention and monitoring of former Guantanamo detainees. Pushing for the swift declassification of information on the number of Guantanamo detainees who have returned to the fight. Recent media reports have said the recidivism rate is at least 20 percent. The recidivism rate for detainees released to countries where Al Qaeda is active may be significantly higher. Expressing concern about the release of Guantanamo detainees based upon factors other than an objective analysis of the threat detainees pose to our national security. Government anticipation of an adverse decision in a habeas corpus case should not be a factor in the decision to transfer a detainee. A copy of the McCain-Graham letter to the President is attached here. #####
12.24.2009	WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after Senate passage of health care reform. The vote was 60-39 with Graham voting against the legislation. "This bill dramatically increases government control of our nation's health care. It raises taxes over $500 billion and cuts Medicare by $464 billion. At the end of the day, the real-world impact of this legislation is that 80 percent of Americans will find themselves in some form of government-run, government-controlled health care. "The fact that 4 out of 5 Americans will be in government-controlled health care is an ominous sign. I can say with certainty the remaining 20 percent will soon be asked, if not required, to follow. I believe we should be pushing for more private sector choice in health care - not government dominance. "If you want an idea of how bad this bill is, just look at the number of Democratic Senators who inserted special provisions exempting their states and businesses from the effects of this legislation. They know it's going to be devastating. "Written behind closed doors in backrooms of the Capitol - the legislation completely exempts one state, Nebraska, from paying for expanded Medicaid coverage, a requirement imposed on the 49 states. This provision, if not unprecedented, is certainly among the most troubling to have ever passed the Senate. "In the state of Michigan, Blue Cross Blue Shield will be exempted from paying certain taxes. In the state of Florida, seniors who enjoy the benefits of participating in Medicare Advantage will be protected from losing that coverage, a benefit not provided to seniors in other states. "The legislation is loaded with similar provisions. And it's certainly not the way we should be legislating on an issue as important as health care, which comprises one-sixth of our national economy. "Without a doubt, the health care policy contained in this bill is bad medicine for America and the Senate's actions were the worst of Washington politics." ####
12.18.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the conclusion of the Copenhagen climate summit. “The results from Copenhagen appear to be, at best, a mixed bag. Regardless of the hazy outcome of Copenhagen, my primary goals remain clear: become energy independent, create American jobs, and clean our environment. “Last year we spent $400 billion on foreign oil and now find ourselves more dependent on overseas supplies than at any other time in our nation's history. Sometimes our money even goes to fund enemies bent on our destruction. The only way we can break our addiction to foreign oil is to achieve energy independence through congressional action which includes opening additional areas to both on-and-offshore exploration for American-owned oil and gas. “We also need a renaissance in nuclear energy that would dramatically increase the number of nuclear power plants operating in our country and fully utilize our clean coal supplies. We should also make strong and meaningful investments in alternative energy sources like biomass, solar, and wind. We need a red, white, and blue energy policy for America, and an essential ingredient in making that possible is to set a price on carbon. Pricing allows alternative energy sources to become more economically viable resulting in a cleaner environment. “It is in our own national security interests to achieve energy independence and curb our pollution problem.” ####
12.15.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the Obama Administration will move some Guantanamo detainees to Illinois. “The issues involved in closing Guantanamo go way beyond where to put the prisoners. I have been in discussions for months with the Obama Administration on a national security-centric approach to closing Guantanamo based on the law of war. Unfortunately, I fear the Obama Administration is choosing to go down a different, and potentially more dangerous, path. “From the unprecedented decision to try enemy combatants captured on the battlefield in civilian courts to the conflicting testimony of Administration officials on long term detention to the alarming number of detainees who have been determined eligible for release, I fear the Administration has lost its bearings in an effort to close Guantanamo as quickly as possible. The Administration has sent a confusing message to our troops on the battlefield who no longer know when civilian law enforcement rules or the laws of war might apply. “I continue to agree with our military leaders that closing Guantanamo is in our own national interests, if done correctly. However, I increasingly find myself at odds with the Administration’s approach. “I hope the Administration hits the pause button on closing Guantanamo and works with Congress to develop a comprehensive strategy to keep dangerous terrorists off the battlefield.” #####
12.08.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of former State Treasurer Grady Patterson. “With the passing of Grady Patterson, South Carolina has lost one of its most respected leaders and a true patriot. Grady was the kind of man who understood people. He was a friend to all, and throughout his public life earned the respect of those who dealt with him. Most importantly, he earned the confidence of the people of South Carolina by being a good steward of their dollars. “I know how important his Air Force career was to him, and he had every reason to be proud of his service. As a World War II fighter pilot, he rose through the ranks to Major General in the Air National Guard. He leaves behind a loving family and legions of friends from across the political spectrum.” #####
12.08.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he will vote in support of the Nelson-Hatch Amendment to the Democrat health care bill. The amendment prohibits federal funds from being used for abortion services or coverage. It is sponsored by Senators Ben Nelson (D-Nebraska) and Orrin Hatch (R-Utah). Graham said: "Tax dollars should not be used to fund abortions. Since passage of the Hyde Amendment in the 1970s, our nation has had a long-standing policy prohibiting federal funds from being used for abortion services or coverage. Unfortunately, the health care legislation changes this long-standing policy. There are many problems with the health care bill and this ill-advised change is among the most glaring. I appreciate Senator Nelson for offering this important amendment and hope it will be adopted by the Senate." #####
12.07.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on news today that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will declare carbon dioxide a health hazard. The EPA is acting pursuant to the U.S. Supreme Court's 2007 decision Massachusetts v. EPA, where the Court ruled carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases should be regulated as pollutants under the Clean Air Act. Graham said: “I continue to believe regulation of carbon by unaccountable bureaucrats at EPA is the worst possible outcome. Jobs will be lost and in some cases industries will be regulated out of business. EPA regulators will not consider expanded nuclear energy or offshore drilling, the exact provisions that I am pushing to have included in Congressional legislation. “Regardless of whether you view climate change as a real threat or some grand hoax, carbon is eventually going to be regulated. As a conservative, I believe the proper venue to set the rules is through the people’s elected representatives in the Congress, not unelected bureaucrats at the EPA. “Done correctly, we can address these issues in a way that benefits our economy, national security and environment. And South Carolina, through our many investments in research and technology, has a golden opportunity to lead the pack. We are positioned to be one of the states to benefit the most from clean energy legislation.” ####
12.07.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – United States Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) last week introduced their ‘Loser Pays’ legislation as an amendment to the health care bill. The amendment would decrease the number of frivolous lawsuits that increase the cost of medical care for all Americans. “Reform of medical malpractice is one of the key, missing ingredients from the health care reform proposals being debated in Congress,” said Senator Graham “A ‘Loser Pays’ system is one of the best devices available to prevent frivolous lawsuits from costing all of us. When both parties in a lawsuit are subject to financial penalty, people think longer and harder about bringing a questionable case forward. Most western nations already have a ‘Loser Pays’ rule, and it is time our own country adopts this concept. The Senate debate on health care is among the most important debates we have had. I hope we have a chance to vote on our important amendment.” “Necessary for any reform proposal to our nation’s health care system is the inclusion of a ‘loser pays’ system for medical malpractice suits,” said Chambliss. “Deterring frivolous lawsuits reduces health care costs for all Americans. We can preserve a fair legal process while eliminating the presence of questionable lawsuits that are currently clogging our judicial system.” In a letter of support to the Senators, the United States Chamber of Commerce stated the provision, “represents a positive and significant step toward providing a more reliable justice system for the victims of medical malpractice.” The Chamber noted that the amendment “encourages the states to establish alternative methods for resolving medical liability claims and provides them with the latitude to develop unique approaches that fit the needs of their diverse populations.” Graham-Chambliss ‘Loser Pays’ amendment would create a system of preliminary, non-binding arbitration for medical malpractice claims before they ever enter a courtroom. If one or both of the parties involved rejects the arbitrator’s decision, they can take the claim to court but are then subject to the ‘Loser Pays’ rule. Additionally, states will have the option to create their own alternative dispute resolution system, with the freedom to tailor procedures as they see fit. ####
11.30.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) applauded today’s decision by the U.S. Supreme Court to vacate a decision by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit that would have required the Department of Defense to release photographs of detainees that could have endangered the safety of U.S. service members and civilians serving abroad. The Supreme Court, in the case of Dept. of Defense, et al. v. ACLU, et al., 09-160, vacated the lower court decision and remanded the case to the Second Circuit for further consideration in light of the recent enactment of the Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2010. The Act contained a provision cosponsored by Senators Graham and Lieberman allowing the Secretary of Defense to issue a certification preventing the release of any photograph whose disclosure the Secretary determines “would endanger citizens of the United States, members of the United States Armed Forces, or employees of the United States Government deployed outside of the United States.” “We are pleased that the Supreme Court has taken this important step to protect the safety of Americans who place themselves in harm’s way to defend our security and liberty,” said Graham and Lieberman. “We commend the President for his efforts to work with Congress to ensure the passage of this legislation and the issuance of the certification by Secretary Gates explaining that public disclosure of the photographs at issue in this case would endanger U.S. citizens, American servicemen and women, and employees of the U.S. government deployed abroad.” ####
11.23.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the Department of Energy announced up to $45 million in grants to Clemson University for a wind energy test facility. The facility will enhance the performance, durability and reliability of utility-scale wind turbines. The new facility will be located at the Charleston Naval Complex, a former Navy base in North Charleston, S.C. and will be a part of the Clemson University Restoration Institute campus. The test facility will operate as a non-profit organization with a business model designed for sustainability while providing ongoing state-of-the-art testing to wind turbine manufacturers. Graham said: “With today’s announcement, Clemson University moves into the major leagues of alternative energy research. There is a movement to transition our country away from the use of foreign oil as a primary source of energy. I strongly support these efforts. “Last year we spent more than $440 billion on foreign oil and now find ourselves more dependent on overseas supplies than at any other time in our nation's history. America has been held hostage by foreign cartels far too long and we are now doing something about it. “With today’s announcement we once again see that South Carolina, through its many investments in research and technology, has a golden opportunity to lead the pack in an emerging green energy economy. Our state -- which trails in many areas -- is uniquely positioned to be one of the states to benefit the most, in the form of job creation and business investment, from clean energy. “I truly appreciate the leadership of Secretary of Energy Chu in choosing Clemson for this important grant. I also appreciate the hard work of Congressman Clyburn and Congressman Brown in helping make the case in support of Clemson. I didn’t vote for the stimulus or agree with many of the spending priorities. But on this one, they did the right thing. “Today’s announcement is another step forward in creating jobs, cleaning our environment, and freeing our nation from dependency on foreign oil. I truly believe many of the solutions to the problem of making our nation energy independent will be found right here in South Carolina. This is yet another example that our state is responding to the challenge and stepping up to take the lead.” #####
11.21.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he will vote against cloture on the Democratic health care bill. The vote is scheduled for 8:00 p.m. tonight. “This bill pretty much shovels dirt on the graves of the ‘Hope’ and ‘Change’ campaign slogans. “As a candidate, President Obama pledged to bring transparency to Washington. Time and time again he said he would open up any negotiations over health care policy to C-Span cameras and the American people. Unfortunately, as President, he and his allies have held health care meetings behind closed doors and in the middle of the night. “As a candidate, President Obama pledged to get away from the budget gimmickry Congress turned into an art form. Unfortunately, as President, his health care plan contains accounting gimmicks that would make an Enron executive blush. “The plan raises 10 years worth of taxes and only provides 6 years worth of benefits. And no one actually believes we will muster the courage to reduce Medicare spending by nearly $500 billion when we haven’t reduced Medicare spending by fifty cents. “Instead of proceeding to a flawed bill, we should stop and start over. This process of writing a multi-trillion dollar bill in the dark of night brings back the worst of Washington. The substance of the bill raises taxes during a recession, compromises individual health care choices, cuts Medicare to pay for the uninsured and will eventually explode the deficit – the combination of which will jeopardize the finest health care system in the world with out lowering costs. “President Obama’s promise to bring a new way of doing business to Washington has come crashing down. Today we learned his new way of doing business is no different than the old.” ####
11.20.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the health care legislation unveiled by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada) late Wednesday. “Remember Enron accounting? Well, I believe even Enron executives would be embarrassed by some of the accounting gimmicks used in this bill. “The legislation will never be paid for and adds to the piles of debt future generations must repay. It also walks us down the road to government-run, government-controlled health care by including a public option which destroys the market for private health care in the United States. Eventually, as the government takes over health care, we’re going to start rationing care. “The legislation also says we are going to cut Medicare by nearly $500 billion. We tried to reign in Medicare spending by $33 billion and put the funds toward shoring up the system in future years. The effort only received two dozen votes in the Senate. The Senate hasn’t shown a willingness to rein in Medicare spending by fifty cents, much less $500 billion. “It’s hard to believe, but we are going to begin debating major, structural changes to one-sixth of our economy in the next few days. No one fully understands the long-term impact this bill will have on health care or what it will do to our economy. The ink on the bill is not yet dry, but we’re planning to start voting on it this weekend. It’s not the way we should be doing the people’s business.” #####
11.18.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the nomination of Judge David F. Hamilton to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. In June, Graham voted against the Hamilton nomination in the Senate Judiciary Committee. Late yesterday, Graham voted against bringing the nomination to a final Senate vote. The motion passed by a vote of 70-29. Judge Hamilton has likened the judicial decision-making process to the constitutional amendment process. Hamilton said, "part of our job here as judges is to write a series of footnotes to the Constitution." Graham said: "I have tried to be fair to President Obama when it comes to judicial selections. Unfortunately, I find Judge Hamilton's decision-making process to be so far removed from the mainstream that he should be denied promotion to the Court of Appeals." ####
11.13.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Obama Administration's decision to try the 9/11 conspirators in federal district court instead of by military commission. "The decision on the proper venue to try Guantanamo detainees, particularly the 9/11 conspirators, is one of the most important decisions we will ever make in the War on Terror. I have had and continue to have very strong feelings on this subject. Those feelings are well-known as evidenced by our debate on the floor of the Senate last week. "I have been asked by the White House to withhold comment about today's Guantanamo decision until I can meet face-to-face with the President after he returns from Asia. As our Commander in Chief, I will honor his request. I look forward to discussing this issue further." ####
11.05.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the Senate voted down the Graham Amendment. The vote was 54-45. “I was very disappointed with the Senate vote. “Trying 9/11 terrorists, such as Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, in civilian court gives them the same constitutional rights American citizens enjoy. Civilian trials will also place our own national security at risk. “Sensitive information affecting national security may have to be provided to the defendant. It will invariably find its way back into enemy hands. We know this because it has happened before, specifically during the trial of the Blind Sheikh, Omar Abdel-Rahman. “What awaits us when we bring a 9/11 conspirator like KSM into federal court? Chaos. His trial will be a zoo.” #####
11.05.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 / Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passage of a climate bill through the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. "There are simply not the votes to pass this bill through the Senate. If the Boxer bill were to come to the Senate floor as written, I would vote "no." "I will continue to work on ways we can combine our need to become more energy independent with our need to reduce carbon pollution. I believe there is a pathway forward - if we choose to take it -- that makes us more energy independent, creates sound environmental policy, promotes job creation and frees our nation from dependency on foreign oil." ####
11.05.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released a letter from 150 family members of the 9/11 attacks in support of the Graham Amendment. The Graham Amendment would prohibit the Obama Administration from trying anyone accused of plotting the 9/11 attacks on America in federal district court (Article III Courts). Graham supports the use of military commissions instead. "This is a very powerful statement of support," said Graham. "I truly appreciate these family members making their voices heard during this important debate." The Graham Amendment is cosponsored by Senators Joe Lieberman, Jim Webb, and John McCain. A vote on the amendment is expected later today. ###### The text of the letter and signatories are below. November 5, 2009 United States Senate The U.S. Capitol Washington, D.C. Dear Senators: On September 11, 2001, the entire world watched as 19 men hijacked four commercial airliners, attacking passengers and killing crew members, and then turned the fully-fueled planes into missiles, flying them into the World Trade Center twin towers, the Pentagon and a field in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. 3,000 of our fellow human beings died in two hours. The nation's commercial aviation system ground to a halt. Lower Manhattan was turned into a war zone, shutting down the New York Stock Exchange for days and causing tens of thousands of residents and workers to be displaced. In nine months, an estimated 50,000 rescue and recovery workers willingly exposed themselves to toxic conditions to dig out the ravaged remains of their fellow citizens buried in 1.8 million tons of twisted steel and concrete. The American people were rightly outraged by this act of war. Whether the cause was retribution or simple recognition of our common humanity, the words "Never Forget" were invoked in tearful or angry rectitude, defiantly written in the dust of Ground Zero or humbly penned on makeshift memorials erected all across the land. The country was united in its determination that these acts should not go unmarked and unpunished. Eight long years have passed since that dark and terrible day. Sadly, some have forgotten the promises we made to those whose lives were taken in such a cruel and vicious manner. We have not forgotten. We are the husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, sons, daughters, sisters, brothers and other family members of the victims of these depraved and barbaric attacks, and we feel a profound obligation to ensure that justice is done on their behalf. It is incomprehensible to us that members of the United States Congress would propose that the same men who today refer to the murder of our loved ones as a "blessed day" and who targeted the United States Capitol for the same kind of destruction that was wrought in New York, Virginia and Pennsylvania, should be the beneficiaries of a social compact of which they are not a part, do not recognize, and which they seek to destroy: the United States Constitution. We adamantly oppose prosecuting the 9/11 conspirators in Article III courts, which would provide them with the very rights that may make it possible for them to escape the justice which they so richly deserve. We believe that military commissions, which have a long and honorable history in this country dating back to the Revolutionary War, are the appropriate legal forum for the individuals who declared war on America. With utter disdain for all norms of decency and humanity, and in defiance of the laws of warfare accepted by all civilized nations, these individuals targeted tens of thousands of civilian non-combatants, brutally killing 3,000 men, women and children, injuring thousands more, and terrorizing millions. We support Senate Amendment 2669 (pursuant to H.R. 2847, the Commerce, Justice, Science Appropriations Act of 2010), "prohibiting the use of funds for the prosecution in Article III courts of the United States of individuals involved in the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks." We urge its passage by all those members of the United States Senate who stood on the senate floor eight years ago and declared that the perpetrators of these attacks would answer to the American people. The American people will not understand why those same senators now vote to allow our cherished federal courts to be manipulated and used as a stage by the "mastermind of 9/11" and his co-conspirators to condemn this nation and rally their fellow terrorists the world over. As one New York City police detective, who lost 60 fellow officers on 9/11, told members of the Department of Justice's Detainee Policy Task Force at a meeting last June, "You people are out of touch. You need to hear the locker room conversations of the people who patrol your streets and fight your wars." The President of the United States has stated that military commissions, promulgated by congressional legislation and recently reformed with even greater protections for defendants, are a legal and appropriate forum to try individuals captured pursuant the 2001 Authorization for the Use of Military Force Act, passed by Congress in response to the attack on America. Nevertheless, on May 21, 2009, President Obama announced a new policy that Al-Qaeda terrorists should be tried in Article III courts "whenever feasible." We strongly object to the President creating a two-tier system of justice for terrorists in which those responsible for the death of thousands on 9/11 will be treated as common criminals and afforded the kind of platinum due process accorded American citizens, yet members of Al Qaeda who aspire to kill Americans but who do not yet have blood on their hands, will be treated as war criminals. The President offers no explanation or justification for this contradiction, even as he readily acknowledges that the 9/11 conspirators, now designated "unprivileged enemy belligerents," are appropriately accused of war crimes. We believe that this two-tier system, in which war criminals receive more due process protections than would-be war criminals, will be mocked and rejected in the court of world opinion as an ill-conceived contrivance aimed, not at justice, but at the appearance moral authority. The public has a right to know that prosecuting the 9/11 conspirators in federal courts will result in a plethora of legal and procedural problems that will severely limit or even jeopardize the successful prosecution of their cases. Ordinary criminal trials do not allow for the exigencies associated with combatants captured in war, in which evidence is not collected with CSI-type chain-of-custody standards. None of the 9/11 conspirators were given the Miranda warnings mandated in Article III courts. Prosecutors contend that the lengthy, self-incriminating tutorials Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and others gave to CIA interrogators about 9/11 and other terrorist operations--called "pivotal for the war against Al-Qaeda" in a recently released, declassified 2005 CIA report--may be excluded in federal trials. Further, unlike military commissions, all of the 9/11 cases will be vulnerable in federal court to defense motions that their prosecutions violate the Speedy Trial Act. Indeed, the judge presiding in the case of Ahmed Ghailani, accused of participating in the 1998 bombing of the American Embassy in Kenya, killing 212 people, has asked for that issue to be briefed by the defense. Ghailani was indicted in 1998, captured in Pakistan in 2004, and held at Guantanamo Bay until 2009. Additionally, federal rules risk that classified evidence protected in military commissions would be exposed in criminal trials, revealing intelligence sources and methods and compromising foreign partners, who will be unwilling to join with the United States in future secret or covert operations if doing so will risk exposure in the dangerous and hostile communities where they operate. This poses a clear and present danger to the public. The safety and security of the American people is the President's and Congress's highest duty. Former Attorney General Michael Mukasey recently wrote in the Wall Street Journal that "the challenges of terrorism trials are overwhelming." Mr. Mukasey, formerly a federal judge in the Southern District of New York, presided over the multi-defendant terrorism prosecution of Sheikh Omar Abel Rahman, the cell that attacked the World Trade Center in 1993 and conspired to attack other New York landmarks. In addition to the evidentiary problems cited above, he expressed concern about courthouse and jail facility security, the need for anonymous jurors to be escorted under armed guard, the enormous costs associated with the use of U.S. marshals necessarily deployed from other jurisdictions, and the danger to the community which, he says, will become a target for homegrown terrorist sympathizers or embedded Al Qaeda cells. Finally, there is the sickening prospect of men like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed being brought to the federal courthouse in Lower Manhattan, or the courthouse in Alexandria, Virginia, just a few blocks away from the scene of carnage eight years ago, being given a Constitutionally mandated platform upon which he can mock his victims, exult in the suffering of their families, condemn the judge and his own lawyers, and rally his followers to continue jihad against the men and women of the U.S. military, fighting and dying in the sands of Iraq and the mountains of Afghanistan on behalf of us all. There is no guarantee that Mr. Mohammed and his co-conspirators will plead guilty, as in the case of Zacarias Moussaoui, whose prosecution nevertheless took four years, and who is currently attempting to recant that plea. Their attorneys will be given wide latitude to mount a defense that turns the trial into a shameful circus aimed at vilifying agents of the CIA for alleged acts of "torture," casting the American government and our valiant military as a force of evil instead of a force for good in places of the Muslim world where Al Qaeda and the Taliban are waging a brutal war against them and the local populations. For the families of those who died on September 11, the most obscene aspect of giving Constitutional protections to those who planned the attacks with the intent of inflicting maximum terror on their victims in the last moments of their lives will be the opportunities this affords defense lawyers to cast their clients as victims. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and his co-conspirators are asking to plead guilty, now, before a duly-constituted military commission. We respectfully ask members of Congress, why don't we let them? Respectfully submitted, Margit Kastel-Arias Wife of Adam P. Arias, 37, Eurobrokers, Two WTC, 84th Fl Donald C. Arias, Lt Col, USAF (ret) Brother of Adam P. Arias Thomas V. Arias Brother of Adam P. Arias Andrew D. Arias Brother of Adam P. Arias Lorraine Beliveau Sister of Adam P. Arias Lauren Lucchini Sister of Adam P. Arias Karen A. Arias Sister-in-law of Adam P. Arias Nicholas C. Arias Nephew of Adam P. Arias Maureen Basnicki Wife Ken Basnicki, 48, Canadian citizen, One WTC, 106 Fl. Emily Schenkel Goddaughter of Lorraine Bay, 58, Flight Attendant, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Edwin Root Cousin of Lorraine Bay Margaret Beamer Mother of Todd Beamer, 33, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville David Beamer Father of Todd Beamer Michele Beamer Sorensen Sister of Todd Beamer Bonnie Beamer Aunt of Todd Beamer Richard Young Uncle of Todd Beamer Alice Hoagland Mother of Mark Bingham, 31, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Herbert K. Hoglan Grandfather of Mark Bingham D. Linden Hoagland Uncle of Mark Bingham Lee N. Hoglan Uncle of Mark Bingham Vaughn V. Hoglan Uncle of Mark Bingham Candyce S. Hoglan Aunt of Mark Bingham Maureen Bosco Mother of Richard E. Bosco, 34, Citibank, One WTC, 105, Fl. James Boyle Father of Firefighter Michael Boyle, 37, Engine 33, WTC. Elizabeth M. Berry Sister of Captain William F. Burke, Jr., 46, Engine 21, WTC Christopher E. Burke Brother of Captain William F. Burke, Jr. Michael T. Burke Brother of Captain William F. Burke, Jr. James M. Burke Brother of Captain William F. Burke, Jr. Janet M. Roy Sister of Captain William F. Burke, Jr. Bradley Burlingame Brother of Captain Charles F. Burlingame, III, 51, pilot, American Flt. 77, Pentagon Diane McDavitt Sister-in-law of Captain Charles F. Burlingame, III Mark and Anine Burlingame Brother and Sister-in-law of Captain Charles F. Burlingame, III Debra Burlingame Sister of Captain Charles F. Burlingame, III Robert Fraina Brother-in-law of Captain Charles F. Burlingame, III Beverly Burnett Mother of Thomas E. Burnett, 38, Jr., passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Thomas E. Burnett, Sr. Father of Thomas E. Burnett Barbara Catuzzi Mother of Lauren Catuzzi Grandcolas, 38, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Larry Catuzzi Father of Lauren Catuzzi Grandcolas Dara Catuzzi Near Sister of Lauren Catuzzi Grandcolas Jordan Cayne Father of Jason David Cayne, Cantor Fitzgerald, 32, One WTC, 104 Fl. Laura Brough Daughter of Georgine Rose Corrigan, 55, passenger, United Fl. 93, Shanksville Patricia Schiavo Mother-in-law of Jack L. D'Ambrosi, Jr. Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 103 Fl. Dominic Schiavo Father-in-law of Jack L. D'Ambrosi, Jr. Leslie Dimmling Wife of William J. Dimmling, 47, Marsh & McLennan, One WTC Christopher O'Connor Cousin of Commander Patrick Dunn, 39, United States Navy, Pentagon Jeanne Evans Sister of FDNY Firefighter Robert Evans, 36, Engine 33, WTC Christina Evans-Serafin Mother of FDNY Firefighter Robert Evans Starling Seravin Step-father of FDNY Firefighter Robert Evans Anne Malave Aunt of FDNY Firefighter Robert Evans Diane Fairben Mother of Keith G. Fairben, 24, Paramedic, NY Presbyterian Hospital, Two WTC Ken Fairben Father of Keith G. Fairben Shirley A. Felt Mother of Edward P. Felt, 41, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Sandra V. Felt Widow of Edward P. Felt Gordon W. Felt Brother of Edward P. Felt Andrew Garcia Son of Andrew T. Garcia, 62, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Audrey M. Olive Daughter of Andrew T. Garcia Kelly Garcia Arrillaga Daughter of Andrew T. Garcia Claudette Greene Wife of Donald F. Greene, 52, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Bonnie Greene Le Var Sister of Donald F. Greene Debbie Rand Cousin of Donald F. Greene Kathleen Haberman Mother of Andrea Lyn Haberman, 25, Carr Futures, One WTC, 92nd Fl. Gordon Haberman Father of Andrea Lyn Haberman Julie A. Haberman Sister of Andrea Lyn Haberman Shirley Hemenway Mother of ET1 Ronald J. Hemenway, 37, Chief, Naval Operations Office, Pentagon Robert Hemenway Father of ET1 Ronald J. Hemenway Theresa Holland Mother of Joseph E. Holland, III, 32, Carr Futures, One WTC, 92nd Fl. Joseph F. Holland, Jr. Father of Joseph F. Holland, III Rose Lang Mother of Rosanne P. Lang, 42, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 104th Fl., and Grandmother of Brendan M. Lang, 30, Structuretone, Two WTC William M. Lang Father of Rosanne P. Lang, and Grandfather of Brendan M. Lang Matthew D. Lang Brother of Rosanne P. Lang, and Uncle of Brendan M. Lang Katherine V. Lang Sister-in-law of Rosanne P. Lang, and Aunt of Brendan M. Lang Lee Ielpi Father of Firefighter Jonathan L. Ielpi, 29, Squad 288, WTC Patty Sumner Sister of FDNY Lieutenant Joseph G. Leavey, 45, Ladder 15, WTC Tim Sumner Brother-in-law of FDNY Joseph G. Leavey Edith Lutnick, Executive Director, The Cantor Fitzgerald Relief Fund Sister of Gary Frederick Lutnick, 36, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 104th Fl. Carole O'Hare Daughter of Hilda Marcin, 79, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Michael McAvoy Brother of FDNY Firefighter John K. McAvoy, 47, Ladder 3, WTC Natalie McAvoy Sister-in-law of Firefighter John K. McAvoy Michael J. McAvoy Nephew of FDNY Firefighter John K. McAvoy Marlena Joy McAvoy Niece of FDNY Firefighter John K. McAvoy Joanne Lane Segal Friend of FDNY Firefighter John K. McAvoy Lori Montesion Cousin of FDNY Firefighter John K. McAvoy Holly Miller Hedley Wife of Special Master Officer Craig J. Miller, 29, U.S. Secret Service, WTC Vera Murphy Trayner Wife of Patrick Sean Murphy, 36, Marsh & McClennan, One WTC, 97th Fl. Lori Murphy Mother of Patrick Sean Murphy Thomas Murphy Father of Patrick Sean Murphy Gary Nelson Father of Ann N. Nelson, 30, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 104th Fl Mary Novotny and Bill Novotny Parents of Brian Christopher Novotny, 33, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 104th Fl. Bill and Lorraine Novotny Brother and Sister-in-law of Brian Christopher Novotny Michael and Eileen Novotny Brother and Sister-in-law of Brian Christopher Novotny Jeanne and Steve Lawler Sister and Brother-in-law of Brian Christopher Novotny Daniel and Stacey Novotny Brother and Sister-in-law of Brian Christopher Novotny Robert Novotny Brother of Brian Christopher Novotny Kevin and Kelli Novotny Brother and Sister-in-law of Brian Christopher Novotny Dorothy O'Berg Mother of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg, 28, Ladder 105, WTC Dennis E. O'Berg Father of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Elizabeth O'Berg Grandmother of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Patricia Ferguson Sister of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Douglas Delguidice Uncle of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Agnes Delguidice Aunt of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Robert O'Berg Uncle of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Carolyn Coyne Aunt of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Thomas Coyne Uncle of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Christian Coyne Cousin of FDNY Firefighter Dennis P. O'Berg Geraldine Davie Mother of Amy O'Doherty, 26, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 104th Fl. Maura O'Doherty Sister of Amy O'Doherty Dolores Owens Mother of Peter J. Owens, Jr., 42, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 104th Fl. Peter J. Owens, Sr. Father of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Kevin Owens Brother of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Terence Owens Brother of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Thomas Owens Brother of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Elizabeth Stanton Cousin of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Thomas Stanton Cousin of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Kristina Stanton Cousin of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Jenna Stanton Cousin of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Briana Stanton Cousin of Peter J. Owens, Jr. Thomas Stanton, Jr. Cousin of Peter J. Owens, Jr. John Pasquale Father-in-law of Andrew Stern, 40, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC 104th Fl. Florence Pasquale Mother-in-law of Andrew Stern D. Hamilton Peterson Son of Donald A. Peterson, 66, and Stepson of Jean H. Peterson, 55, passengers, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Firefighter Robert Reeg Survivor, FDNY Engine 44, WTC Brian Long Son of Diane Simmons, 54, and George Simmons, 57, passengers, American Flt. 77, Pentagon Melissa Price Long Fiancee of FDNY Firefighter Brian E. Sweeney, 29, Rescue 1, Two WTC, and Daughter-in-law of Diane and George Simmons Freddy Helm Brother of Diane Simmons and Brother-in-law of George Simmons Andrew Ficarella Brother -in-law of Diane and George Simmons Tricial Ficarella Sister-in-law of Diane and George Simmons Irene Johnson Cousin of Diane Simmons Marion Kminek Mother of Mari-Rae Sopper, 35, passenger, American Flt. 77, Pentagon Frank Kminek Father of Mari-Rae Sopper Shannon J. Spann Wife of Johnny Micheal Spann, 32, Central Intelligence Agency, killed in action November 25, 2001, Qala-i-Jangi, Afghanistan Johnny Spann Father of CIA Agent Johnny Micheal Spann Gail Spann Mother of CIA Agent Johnny Micheal Spann Alison Spann Daughter of CIA Agent Johnny Micheal Spann Emily Spann Daughter of CIA Agent Johnny Micheal Spann Tanya Spann Ingram Sister of CIA Agent Johnny Micheal Spann Tammy Spann Dunavant Sister of CIA Agent Johnny Micheal Spann Mary Ann Strada Mother of Thomas S. Strada, 41, Cantor Fitzgerald, One WTC, 104th Fl. Ernest Strada Father of Thomas S. Strada Mary Ann Sweeney Mother of FDNY Firefighter Brian E. Sweeney, 29, Rescue 1, Two WTC Jan Vigiano Mother of FDNY Firefighter John Vigiano, 36, Ladder 132, WTC, and NYPD Detective Joseph Vigiano, 34, Emergency Service Unit 2,WTC John T. Vigiano Father of FDNY Firefighter John Vigiano, and NYPD Detective Joseph Vigiano Kevin Jacobs Brother of Deborah Jacobs Welsh, Flight Attendant, 49, United Flt. 93, Shanksville Mary Louise White Mother of Honor Elizabeth Wainio, 27, passenger, United Flt. 93, Shanksville
11.02.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – United States Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) today introduced ‘Loser Pays’ legislation to decrease the number of frivolous lawsuits that increase the cost of medical care. “Reform of medical malpractice is one of the key, missing ingredients from the health care reform proposals being debated in Congress,” said Senator Graham “A ‘Loser Pays’ system is one of the best devices available to prevent frivolous lawsuits from costing all of us. When both parties in a lawsuit are subject to financial penalty, people think longer and harder about bringing a questionable case forward. Most western nations already have a ‘Loser Pays’ rule, and it is time our own country adopts this concept.” “This critical piece of healthcare reform has been missing from every Democratic proposal,” said Senator Chambliss. “While no one with a valid claim for medical malpractice should be denied his day in court, those who bring frivolous lawsuits raise the cost of healthcare for everyone. ‘Loser pays’ should go a long way toward discouraging such junk lawsuits and lowering the cost of practicing medicine.” The Senators noted that the State of Florida applied a ‘Loser Pays’ rule exclusively to medical malpractice claims from 1980 to 1985. During that time, the percentage of malpractice suits that went to trial was cut nearly in half, and the plaintiff cases that went to trial prevailed more often as weak cases were eliminated. Graham-Chambliss ‘Loser Pays’ creates a system of preliminary, non-binding arbitration for medical malpractice claims before they ever enter a courtroom. If one or both of the parties involved rejects the arbitrator’s decision, they can take the claim to court but are then subject to the ‘Loser Pays’ rule. Additionally, states will also have the option to create their own alternative dispute resolution system, with the freedom to tailor procedures as they see fit. The bill is called the Fair Resolution of Medical Liability Disputes Act of 2009. #### "Loser Pays" Proposal for Medical Malpractice Claims Fact Sheet Here
10.28.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the news Boeing will open a second production line in North Charleston. "We are proud to be part of the Boeing team. We intend to be a good partner and greatly look forward to having an expanded Boeing footprint in South Carolina. Seattle remains the home of Boeing and we look forward to working closely with them in the years ahead. Today’s announcement is proof positive that South Carolina is a great place to do business. "Boeing is a world-class company committed to excellence. They could have gone to any location in the country and been well-received. They chose South Carolina because of our pro-business environment. "Bringing Boeing to South Carolina was truly a team effort. I want to thank Governor Sanford, Commerce Secretary Taylor, Senator Leatherman, Speaker Harrell, the congressional delegation, members of the state legislature, and members of the great Charleston team for their hard work. This was the best team effort in business recruitment I have seen in my 15 years of public service. We spoke with one voice and worked hand-in-hand to land this great company." #####
10.22.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGON – U.S Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement regarding his opposition to the Defense Authorization bill. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “The Hate Crimes provision has no place on a bill authorizing the operations of the Department of Defense. As a result of its inclusion, I could not vote in support of the bill. I am truly disappointed this provision was added to a bill that is supposed to be about supporting our troops. “We all agree that hate crimes are wrong. That is why they are already illegal. There is simply no need to separate out a particular class of crimes for special consideration. Whatever the motivation behind criminal acts, they deserve to be prosecuted to the fullest extent of the law. “Today, Congress once again overstepped its bounds. The inclusion of this provision was an unnecessary and ill-advised power grab by the federal government.” #####
10.14.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after the Senate Finance Committee approved its version of health care reform. The vote in committee was 14-9 with only one Republican supporting the measure. “I’m afraid we’re about to make a monumental mistake. There’s no doubt the health care problems facing our nation are serious. Unfortunately, the Senate Finance bill will only make the problem worse. Many Americans lose under this plan with senior citizens on Medicare and those who have private health insurance bearing the brunt of the damage. “There are a number of gimmicks and accounting tricks in the health care legislation. The biggest may be the illusion the Finance Committee has put forth that Congress will suddenly develop the political will to cut Medicare by over $400 billion to pay for health care reform. “The first problem with this is that Congress has never had the appetite to reduce Medicare spending, certainly not by $400 billion. Secondly, Medicare faces tremendous funding problems in the years ahead. Any changes to Medicare should be dedicated to making Medicare solvent in the years ahead, not covering the uninsured. “Those who currently have private insurance will also be hurt. If you have a health care plan you like, your employer may be forced to change or drop it if it doesn’t meet the new federal requirements. Instead of expanding the market for private health insurance we are expanding the government’s role in providing health care.” ######
10.08.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of six U.S. Senators have written to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell encouraging them to “set aside time” for Senate action on several bipartisan bills strengthening the Obama Administration’s position when dealing with Iran. The senators include Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Evan Bayh (D-Indiana), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Bob Casey (D-Pennsylvania), Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut), and John McCain (R-Arizona). “There are few issues today on which there is as much bipartisan agreement as the need to take steps to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapons capability,” wrote the senators. “Nothing could be more destabilizing than a nuclear armed Iran. While we are hopeful that the recent talks between Iran and the United States and our allies will yield positive results, we believe that Congressional action can aid the President and send the right signals to the Iranian regime and our allies. “The recent disclosure of a covert nuclear enrichment facility in Qom, Iran’s increasing efforts to procure nuclear equipment and materials, and advances in Iranian missile technology demonstrate the need for quick action. Moreover, press reports indicating that the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) believes that Iran already possesses sufficient information to build a nuclear weapon reinforce that time is truly of the essence. “We believe that the Senate should act as soon as possible to provide the President with the tools necessary to impose aggressive and meaningful sanctions on Iran. As you are aware, several bipartisan bills have been introduced to provide these tools, including: S. 908, the Iran Refined Petroleum Sanctions Act, introduced by Senators Bayh, Kyl, and Lieberman with 76 cosponsors, which would empower the President with the explicit authority to target Iran’s dependence on imported gasoline and other refined petroleum products. S. 1065, the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act, introduced by Senators Brownback and Casey with 33 cosponsors, which would authorize State and local governments to direct divestiture from, and prevent investment in, companies with investments of $20 million or more in Iran's energy sector. S. 1475, the Reduce Iranian Cyber-Suppression Act, introduced by Senators Schumer and Graham, which would prohibit the United States government from doing business with companies that sell technology to the Iranian government that restricts the freedom of speech of the Iranian people. “Numerous committees have examined policy options with regards to Iran. Most recently, the hearings held by the Banking Committee sent a powerful signal that support exists in the Senate for strong sanctions and swift action. “Diplomacy is more likely to be effective if backed by the credible threat of strong sanctions. The President should have the ability to impose sanctions on Iran as soon as he chooses to do so. We urge you to set aside time for the Senate to consider these bills and other ideas as soon as possible.” #### Letter attached here.
10.07.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Heath Shuler (D-NC) today applauded the action of the conferees on the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill to give the Secretary of Defense the ability to protect American troops and civilians by preventing the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in U.S. custody. The Senate unanimously passed this legislation, which was introduced by Senators Lieberman and Graham, as an amendment to the Senate’s Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, and Representatives Conaway and Shuler have sponsored similar legislation in the House. The sponsors thanked the conferees for including this vital measure in the conference report: “I’m pleased Congress has finally acted to prevent the further release of photos showing detainee abuse,” said Graham. “I hope the courts will give deference to the Executive and Legislative branches who now speak with one voice prohibiting the photos release. From the beginning I have said these photos do not add anything new. The release of these photos would be used by our enemies to incite violence against our soldiers and civilians serving abroad. I appreciate the President’s decision to oppose the photos release and thank the White House for working with us to pass this important provision.” “I thank the House and Senate conferees for taking this step that is necessary to protect the men and women of our military who go into in harm’s way to defend our security and liberty,” said Lieberman. “The President has expressed his strong support for this legislation, and with its inclusion in the Homeland Security Appropriations Bill, I am looking forward to its swift passage by the House and Senate and signature by the President.” “I am pleased that Congress has taken the measure to prevent the detainee photos from being released to protect our troops and increase the safety of American citizens. The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to make sure this bill becomes law. This bill is imperative to the safety of our troops and our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. I applaud Senators Graham and Lieberman for their leadership and urge quick passage in the House and Senate and a swift signature by the President.” “President Obama opposes the release of these photos because it would endanger our troops, and I stand fully behind him,” said Shuler. “Generals and military experts warn that the release of these photos would fan the hatred of extremist groups at a time when tensions already run high in the Middle East. We don’t want to provide recruitment tools to al-Qaeda.” # # #
09.22.2009	Meghan Hughes (202-224-5972) or Katie McKinney (202-225-3176) WASHINGTON – United States Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Congressman Henry Brown (R-South Carolina) today released this statement on the 20th anniversary of Hurricane Hugo. “On this day twenty years ago South Carolina weathered a storm that forever changed our state. Even after two decades, the legacy and memory of Hurricane Hugo remains. After the storm passed, the people of the Palmetto State awoke to the sight of downed trees, bridges and demolished homes and buildings. Beneath the rubble, South Carolinians also found a sense of community and a desire to rebuild our coast in the wake of the storm.” “The days leading up to Hurricane Hugo’s landfall were distressing for all South Carolinians who remember it, but we believe that we emerged from the storm a much stronger state. The experience underscored the critical value of early evacuation, bold leadership, and personal and regional preparation.” “September is National Preparation Month and as we reflect on one of the worst hurricanes in South Carolina history, we must always be attentive to the seriousness of natural disasters. Preparation and quick response is critical to ensuring the safety of everyone, and we sincerely hope that all Americans will learn from the tragedy of Hurricane Hugo on September 22, 1989.” ####
09.17.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the Obama Administration is pulling back from a missile defense system in Eastern Europe. “President Obama’s decision to abandon the missile defense shield is a strategic mistake. The missile defense program is directed at dealing with a rogue missile attack from the Middle East, particularly Iran. A rogue missile attack into Europe puts American service men and women, and our European allies, at risk. Scrapping this program makes it easier for extremists in the Middle East to hold portions of the world hostage. “President Obama’s decision also emboldens Russia and pulls the rug out from under our Polish and Czech Republic allies. They may try to call this hitting the reset button on our relationship with Russia. It looks more like retreat. The Russians will take our actions not as a sign of goodwill, but weakness. “I can only imagine how difficult this decision must be on our Polish and Czech Republic allies. No matter how much the President and others try to sell this, Moscow sees our decision as a cave-in and our eastern European allies see it as a sell-out. “If the Administration was so confident this was the right decision to make, it surely seems strange that these decisions were carried out in the middle of the night.” ####
09.11.2009	Meghan Hughes (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the anniversary of 9/11. “All Americans have heavy hearts on this day as we remember and honor thousands of our fellow citizens who lost their lives in the 9/11 attacks. “Eight years ago today our nation realized how unattended hatred can result in disaster. Since that time our homeland has been free of attack because we have taken the fight against a vicious enemy to all corners of the globe. We have built new defenses, acquired new capabilities, but most of all – we have never lost our will to ensure the September 11th tragedy will never occur again on the American homeland. “One of things that struck me on my recent visit to Afghanistan was the 19-year-old privates and 20-year-old corporals serving in the Army and Marines. They were not even teenagers on September 11th, 2001. Yet the most frequent response I received when asking why they joined the military was ‘I wanted to serve because of 9/11.’ “On this day of remembrance, America should honor those who lost their lives in the 9/11 attacks on America. We should also express our gratitude and appreciation for the 9/11 generation of Americans who truly understand the meaning of that day and are determined to never let it happen again.” ####
09.09.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement tonight after the presidential address. “I was incredibly disappointed in the tone of his speech. At times I found his tone to be overly combative and believe he behaved in a manner beneath the dignity of the office. I fear his speech tonight has made it more difficult -- not less -- to find common ground. “He appeared to be angry at his critics and disappointed the American people were not buying the proposals he has been selling. The president’s confrontational demeanor increased the emotional and political divide. I hope the President will learn that true bipartisanship begins with mutual respect. Criticism of a public official is to be expected and not all criticism is demagoguery. “When it comes to the public option, the President is either being disingenuous or misinformed. The public option, contrary to the president’s claims, will eventually lead to a government takeover of our health care system. “One could easily be led to believe tonight’s speech is the beginning of a ‘go it alone’ strategy. If the Obama Administration and congressional Democrats go down this path and push a bill on the American people they do not want, it could be the beginning of the end of the Obama presidency.” #####
08.26.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the passing of Senator Edward Kennedy (D-Massachusetts). “With the passing of Senator Kennedy the United States Senate has lost one of its most effective and respected voices. “Senator Kennedy’s colleagues -- Republicans and Democrats -- greatly enjoyed working with him and respected his views. A handshake from Senator Kennedy was all that was ever needed. His word was his bond. “When the history of the United States Senate is written, his name will be toward the top of the list of Senators who made a tremendous impact on the institution. “Senator Kennedy was never afraid to work across the aisle to get things done. We can all learn from the example he set and work together to build a stronger nation.”
08.06.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) and Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his opposition to extending the ‘Cash for Clunkers’ program. “While I believe the ‘Cash for Clunkers’ program has had a temporary stimulus effect, ultimately this program will add to our mounting national debt. This extension is being paid for with borrowed stimulus money that will soon be replenished by Congress only adding further to our deficit woes. “We could have easily found $2 billion within the $787 billion stimulus package. A simple reallocation of priorities would have allowed us to extend the program and would not have added to our national debt. Unfortunately, it seems our top priority right now is borrowing money to fund every idea, the good and the bad.” #####
08.06.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut), John McCain (R-Arizona), and Jim Webb (D-Virginia) today sent a letter to President Obama expressing concern over reports the Administration may try Khalid Sheik Mohammed and other alleged war criminals in civilian courts. The Senators further expressed their belief that military commissions are the appropriate forum to try suspected terrorists and war criminals. The Senators wrote: “We write to you today to express our concern over reports that your Administration may prosecute Khalid Sheik Mohammed, the mastermind of the September 11 terrorist attacks, and other alleged war criminals in civilian courts in Virginia, New York, and the District of Columbia. Such trials would treat the war on terrorism as a law enforcement operation, rather than a war, and would treat its alleged perpetrators as common criminals, instead of violators of the law of war. “Military commissions have played a time-honored role in our country, from the time General George Washington relied on them during the Revolutionary War. The revised military commission procedures contained in S. 1390, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, not only meet but surpass the fundamental standards of fairness and due process required by our Supreme Court, the Geneva Conventions, and the rules of the International Criminal Court. “Given the robust procedural and substantive rights now provided by this revised system of military commissions, and the sensitive nature of much of the evidence that would be brought forth, we are disturbed that your Administration has expressed a clear preference for prosecuting alleged war criminals in federal district courts in Virginia, New York, and the District of Columbia. “We strongly believe that it would be unwise to try alleged war criminals in civilian communities with civilian juries, as do a significant majority of our colleagues. Indeed, last month the Senate adopted an amendment to S. 1390 that expresses the Sense of the Congress that military commissions are the preferred forum for prosecution for violations of the law of war. The revised military commission procedures are likely to become law in the coming months, and the courtroom personnel and facilities at Guantanamo Bay are ready to continue prosecutions at that point. “The individuals detained at Guantanamo Bay are not held because of violations of domestic criminal law. They are detained because they have been found to be members of al-Qaida or other terrorist organizations, and have taken up arms against the United States of America. The forum for their trial should reflect the fact that these detainees were captured as part of a military operation and face trial for violations of the law of war. As a result, we urge you to prosecute these suspected war criminals by military commission at Guantanamo Bay.” ####
07.31.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Senate approval of a resolution he introduced recognizing the week of August 30 – September 5, 2009 as “National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week.” The date coincides with the 2009 National Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Week Conference, hosted by the White House Initiative on HBCUs and the President’s Board of Advisors on HBCUs. The Graham resolution had 35 cosponsors and passed the Senate unanimously. It calls on Americans to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate support for HBCUs. “Historically Black Colleges and Universities provide quality educational experiences and play a vital role in an increasingly complex and highly technological society,” said Graham. “HBCUs have a rich heritage and have played a prominent role in the history of the United States. Further, they have allowed many students to attain their full potential through higher education. I am pleased the Senate has come together in a bipartisan fashion to recognize the contributions and accomplishments of these institutions.” Three major HBCU Associations – UNCF—the United Negro College Fund, National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education, and the Thurgood Marshall College Fund – were active in supporting the resolution. Michael L. Lomax, President and CEO of UNCF—the United Negro College Fund said, "UNCF is pleased that Sen. Lindsey Graham introduced a resolution to designate the week of August 30 as National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week and that the Senate passed Sen. Graham’s resolution unanimously. The bipartisan support that the resolution attracted speaks eloquently of the broad national consensus that HBCUs are a critical part of our nation's efforts to regain world leadership in the percentage of citizens with college degrees." South Carolina is home to eight Historically Black Colleges and Universities. A complete list can be found at http://www.ed.gov/about/inits/list/whhbcu/edlite-list.html. ####
07.30.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, President Barack Obama sent Senators Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) a letter urging Congress to pass the Detainee Photo ban that has been unanimously passed in the Senate and now awaits House action, where it was introduced by Representatives Mike Conaway (R-TX) and Heath Shuler (D-NC). The sponsors stated in response to receipt of the letter from the President: “I am very pleased with the President’s strong statement of support for the Lieberman-Graham Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act which would prevent the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in US custody,” said Lieberman. “The President recognized that the Senate has unanimously passed this legislation three times and urged the House to take action because this legislation protects the lives of American troops. As the President eloquently wrote in his letter to us, ‘Nothing would be gained by the release of these photos that matters more than the lives of our young men and women serving in harm’s way.’ I strongly urge my colleagues in the House to heed the President’s call and pass this legislation without delay. The lives of our troops are at stake.” “I hope the House Democratic leadership will support President Obama’s position on prohibiting the release of additional photos and carefully listen to our military commanders who have said unequivocally that these photos will be used by our enemies to inspire additional violence against our troops,” said Graham. “I appreciate the fact that President Obama has decided that additional detainee photos being released will put our troops and other Americans in further jeopardy and will not provide any new information regarding past detainee abuse. I’m hopeful his letter of support will be a major political breakthrough that will ensure passage of our legislation. This is truly a bipartisan effort to protect our troops and I appreciate the leadership of my Democratic and Republican colleagues in the both the House and Senate.” “I stand with our President, the United States Senate, our Secretary of Defense and our commanders on the ground in supporting this bipartisan legislation and it is my fervent hope that my colleagues in the House will decide to as well,” said Conaway. “Opposition to a bill that would endanger lives of U.S. citizens and members of the Armed Forces is both irresponsible and ludicrous. The very fact that we could put Americans all over the world, especially our men and women serving in Iraq and Afghanistan, in dangerous scenarios is reason enough to make sure this bill becomes law. The consequences of refusing to enact this legislation are simple: if these photos are released, they will be used by the enemy to provoke violence against Americans and to further recruit insurgents on behalf of a violent anti-American cause. This bill is imperative to the safety of our troops and our efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan, and I urge its swift passage in the House.” “While I support government transparency, the risk of endangering our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan by releasing these photos is too high,” said Shuler. “Generals and security experts have said these photos would fan the hatred of extremist groups at a time when tensions already run high in the Middle East.” #### Click here for letter.
07.24.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut) lauded the Senate's adoption of their amendment expressing the sense of Congress that members of Al Qaeda and other terrorists captured on the battlefield should be tried by military commissions rather than in federal courts in towns and cities across America. "If anyone believes we are not at war with Al Qaeda, they should review the excerpts of the combatant status review tribunal with Khalid Sheikh Mohammad (KSM)," said Graham. "KSM, the mastermind of the 9/11 attacks on America, made it clear he is at war with us. Our nation is engaged in a deadly conflict with a ruthless enemy. These are not common criminals who robbed a liquor store. They are warriors committed to their cause which is the destruction of our nation. When captured, they need to be tried as a military threat under the rules of military law. Military commissions, not federal district court, are appropriate venue for these trials." "These are terrorists who have committed heinous acts against our citizens, our country, our allies, and all standards of human decency," Lieberman said. "This year's National Defense Authorization Act creates a robust military commission system that surpasses the standards of fundamental fairness and due process required by our own Supreme Court and the Geneva Conventions. We have used military commissions to try war criminals throughout our nation's history, beginning with their use by our first President, General George Washington during the Revolutionary War. We are at war today, and we should not deviate from our time-honored practice of using military commissions to prosecute violations of the laws of war." The Senators introduced the amendment in response to a report released Monday by a joint Department of Justice and Department of Defense Detention Policy Task Force charged with developing options for handling Guantanamo detainees. The Task Force announced the administration's policy that "There is a presumption that, where feasible, referred case will be prosecuted in an Article III court, in keeping with traditional principles of federal prosecution." With passage of the Lieberman-Graham amendment, the Senate has sent a strong message that there should be no such presumption. To the contrary, the Senate's vote reflects that these terrorists are war criminals not common criminals and that they should accordingly be tried by military commission. ###
07.23.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) tonight made this statement on President Obama's press conference on health care reform. "Simply put, President Obama's 'My way or the Highway' approach to health care reform is not going to work. "I don't believe there will be support in the Congress to pass a public option. A number of Democrats and almost all Republicans believe it will destroy health care. A government-run, government-controlled system will increase costs, reduce patient choice, and eventually lead to rationing of care. This outcome unites Republicans and a significant number of Democrats against President Obama‘s plan. "America has the premier health care system in the world but there are areas we can work to improve. I agree with the president we should address those issues. But there are better ways to reform health care than the plan President Obama has embraced." ######
07.21.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he will support an amendment offered by Senator John Thune (R-South Dakota) providing reciprocity to concealed carry permit holders in South Carolina and across the country. The Thune amendment would allow an individual who has met the requirements for a carry permit, or who is otherwise allowed by their home state's law to carry a firearm, to carry a firearm for protection in any other state that issues such permits. Graham noted that a concealed carry holder in South Carolina would be allowed to carry their firearm into neighboring states such as North Carolina, Georgia, and Tennessee. When in those states, a South Carolinian would be subject to those states laws governing concealed weapons. “Personal protection should not end at a state line,” said Graham. “The Thune amendment protects and enhances the Second Amendment rights of Americans who carry and responsibly own a weapon. I look forward to voting for its passage and encourage my colleagues to do likewise." A Senate vote on the Thune Amendment is scheduled for Wednesday. ####
07.15.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced and pledged his support for Mignon Clyburn’s nomination to the Federal Communications Commission. Clyburn was nominated by President Obama. “She is an outstanding choice for this position. Mignon has the intellect and experience to excel in one of the most important jobs in the country. Her service on the South Carolina Public Service Commission will serve her well in her new position on the federal level. I look forward to supporting her confirmation to the Commission.” ##### Video of Senator Graham's introduction is available.
07.13.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Opening Statement of U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) Senate Judiciary Committee Hearing on the Nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor July 13, 2009 "Well, thank you. I've learned something already, the Schumer conservative standard. And we'll -- we'll see how that works. No Republican would have chosen you, Judge; that's just the way it is. We would have picked Miguel Estrada. We would all have voted for him. And I don't think anybody on that side would have voted for Judge Estrada, who is a Honduran immigrant, who came to this country as a teenager, graduated from Columbia magna cum laude, Harvard, 1986, magna cum laude and Law Review editor, a stellar background like yours, and that's just the way it was. He never had a chance to have this hearing. He was nominated by President Bush to the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals, which I think most people agree is probably the second highest court in the land, and he never had this day. So the Hispanic element of this hearing's important, but I don't want it to be lost that this is mostly about liberal and conservative politics more than it is anything else. And having said that, there are some of my colleagues on the other side that voted for Judge Roberts and Alito, knowing they would not have chosen either one of those, and I will remember that. Now, unless you have a complete meltdown, you're going to get confirmed. (LAUGHTER) And I don't think you will, but, you know, the drama that's being created here is -- is -- is interesting. And -- and my Republican colleagues who vote against you I assure you could vote for a Hispanic nominee. They just feel unnerved by your speeches and by some of the things that you've said and some of your cases. Now, having said that, I don't know what I'm going to do yet, but I do believe that you, as an advocate with a Puerto Rican defense legal fund, that you took on some cases that I would have loved to have been on the other side, that your organization advocated taxpayer-funded abortion and said in a brief that to deny a poor black woman Medicaid funding for an abortion was equivalent to the Dred Scott case. Now, that's a pretty extreme thing to say, but I think it was heartfelt. I would look at it the other way. To take my taxpayer dollars and provide an abortion to -- to pay for abortion I disagree with is pretty extreme. So there's two ways of looking at that. You were a prosecutor, but your organization argued for the repeal of the death penalty because it was unfairly applied and discriminatory against minorities. Your organization argued for quotas when it came to hiring. I just want my colleagues to understand that there can be no more liberal group, in my opinion, than the Puerto Rican defense legal fund when it came to advocacy. What I hope is, if we ever get a conservative president and they nominate someone who has an equal passion on the other side, that we will not forget this moment, that you could be the NRA general counsel and still be a good lawyer. My point is, I'm not going to hold it against you or the organization for advocating (inaudible) from which I disagree. That makes America a special place. I would have loved to have been in those cases on the other side. I hope that wouldn't have disqualified me. Now, when it comes to your speeches, that is the most troubling thing to me, because that gives us an indication, when you're able to get outside the courtroom without the robe, an insight into how you think life works, and this wise Latino comment has been talked about a lot. But I can just tell you one thing: If I had said anything remotely like that, my career would have been over. That's true of most people here. And you need to understand that, and I look forward to talking with you about that comment. Does that mean that I think that you're racist? You've been called some pretty bad things. No. It just bothers me when somebody wearing a robe takes the robe off and says that their experience makes them better than someone else. I think your experience can add a lot to the court, but I don't think it makes you better than anyone else. Now, when I look at your record, there is a lot of truth to what Senator Schumer said. I don't think you've taken the opportunity on the circuit to -- to be a cause-driven judge. But what we're talking about here today is, what will you do when it comes to making policy? I'm pretty well convinced I know what you're going to do. You're probably going to decide cases differently than I would. So that brings me back to, what am I supposed to do knowing that? I don't think anybody here worked harder for Senator McCain than I did, but we lost, and President Obama won. And that ought to matter. It does to me. Now, what standard do I apply? I can assure you that if I applied Senator Obama's standard to your nomination, you -- I wouldn't vote for you, because the standard that he articulated would make it impossible for anybody with my view of the law and society to vote for someone with your activism and background when it comes to lawyering and judging. He said something about the 5 percent of the cases that we're all driven by. He said something to the effect, in those difficult cases, the critical ingredient is applied by what is in the judge's heart. Well, I have no way of knowing what is in your heart any more than you have knowing what's in my heart. So that to me is an absurd, dangerous standard. Maybe something good could come out of these hearings. If we start applying that to nominees, it will ruin the judiciary. I have no idea what's in your heart anymore than you have an idea what's in my heart, and I think it takes us down a very dangerous road as a country when we start doing that. Now, there was a time when someone like Scalia and Ginsberg got 95-plus votes. If you were confused about where Scalia was coming down as a judge, you shouldn't be voting, anymore than if you were a mystery about what Justice Ginsberg was going to in these 5 percent of the cases. That is no mystery. There's some aspect of you that I'm not sure about that gives me hope that you may not go down the -- Senator Feingold's road when it comes to the war on terror, and we'll talk about that later on. But generally speaking, the president has nominated someone of good character, someone who has lived a very full and fruitful life, who is passionate. From day one, from the time you got a chance to showcase who you are, you've stood out and you've stood up and you've been a strong advocate and you will speak your mind. The one thing I'm worried about is that if we keep doing what we're doing, we're going to deter people from speaking their mind. I don't want milquetoast judges. I want you to be able to speak your mind, but you've got to understand that when you gave these speeches as a sitting judge, that was disturbing to me. I want lawyers who believe in something and are willing to fight for it and I don't want the young lawyers of this country feeling like there's certain clients they can't represent because when they come before the Senate, it will be the end of their career. So I don't know how I'm going to vote, but my inclination is that elections matter. And I'm not going to be upset with any of my colleagues who find that you're a bridge too far, because in many ways, what you've done in your legal career and the speeches you've made give me great insight as to whether -- where you'll come out on these 5 percent of the cases. But President Obama won the election and I will respect that. But when he was here, he set in motion a standard, I thought, that was more about seeking the presidency than being fair to the nominee. When he said, "The critical ingredient is supplied by what is in the judge's heart," translated, that means, "I'm not going to vote against my base, because I'm running for president." We've got a chance to start over. I hope we'll take that chance. You will be asked hard questions and I think you expect that, and my belief is that you will do well, because whether or not I agree with you on the big theme to live is not important. The question for me is have you earned the right to be here and if I give you this robe to put you on the Supreme Court, do I believe, at the end of the day, that you will do what you think is best, that you have courage, and that you will be fair. Come Thursday, I think I'll know more about that. Good luck." #####
07.10.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC -- Yesterday, the Senate again passed the Graham-Lieberman Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act as an amendment to the Homeland Security appropriations bill. This measure would prevent the release of photos of past abuse of detainees in US custody. This is the third time the measure has been adopted by the Senate. Last month, the Senate unanimously adopted this legislation and the measure was also previously passed by the Senate in the supplemental appropriations bill but removed in conference. “We are pleased that the Senate once again adopted this bill that would protect our troops, but it is imperative that it now becomes law. If the House of Representatives does not act and these photos are released, the lives of our troops will be in jeopardy. Don’t just take our word for it – listen to the concerns expressed by Generals David Petraeus and Ray Odierno who have stated that release of the photos would endanger American troops; destabilize Iraq, Pakistan, and Afghanistan; and serve as a terrorist recruiting tool just like the 2004 photos did. “A legislative solution is the most definitive way to bring the issue of the ACLU lawsuit to an end. The courts would also view it as the strongest action instead of solely relying on an executive order.” Graham and Lieberman continued, “Overwhelming majorities in the Senate and the House and the President have now made it clear that these photos should not be released. There should be no further delay because we have no greater responsibility as public officials than to protect the brave Americans who go into harm’s way to defend our security and freedom.” ####
07.09.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news that Judge Karen Williams will retire from the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals. Since 2007 she has served as the Circuit’s Chief Judge. “I was very sad to hear that Judge Williams is retiring from the 4th Circuit. Judge Williams is the epitome of a well-reasoned jurist. She understands the difference between upholding the law and a judge making law. “Judge Williams enjoyed tremendous respect from her judicial colleagues, the lawyers who appeared before her, and the public at large. Judge Williams is a role model for a jurist and citizen. We will be praying for her and her family in the days ahead.” ######
06.26.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “I support Governor Sanford’s decision to ‘refocus on the work at hand’ and his efforts to ‘rebuild the trust’ committed to him over the last 18 months of his term. “I have always believed many aspects of his reform agenda are needed and, if enacted, would serve our state well in years to come. “However, Mark’s ability to govern will not only require him to reconcile with his family, but also with the people of South Carolina and their elected officials in the General Assembly. Governor Sanford needs to seek and find common ground with the General Assembly on a reform agenda to serve our state. From my experience, most people, including elected officials, are capable of working with those who have failed and are flawed when it benefits the common good. “There is no debate that Mark’s actions, personal and professional, were inappropriate and deeply hurtful. He has admitted to his mistakes and taken responsibility for his actions. “As a close friend of Jenny and Mark and godfather of their youngest child, I understand the damage that has been done is deep and real. I know Mark wants to reconcile with his family. I hope and pray that is possible. “Second chances in life are not guaranteed or required. But if they are afforded they can be a real blessing.” #####
06.24.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement. “I’ve been a close friend of Mark and Jenny since our election to Congress in 1994. Like all of their friends, I want the best for their family and hope they can repair the damage. I will provide any personal support I can. “Jenny and Mark have four wonderful boys. The Sanford family needs time and space to work through their challenges. I hope they are afforded that opportunity. “As for the future, I hope Mark will reconcile with his family and can continue serving as our state's governor.” #####
06.23.2009	Wes HIckman (202) 224-5972 / Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Iranian situation after President Obama's press conference. "Today's comments by President Obama challenged the Iranian regime more than at any point since the saga began. His stronger comments will hopefully inspire the people of Iran to continue their struggle for freedom. "I am grateful for the more forceful tone and I do not believe it is ‘meddling' to speak up for freedom or against a regime with innocent blood on its hands. Brave Iranians are taking to the streets in opposition to tyranny. They are expressing their hopes for freedom and justice. They want an Iran that lives in peace with its neighbors as part of the community of nations, not as an outcast. "President Obama is the leader of the free world and America is the beacon of hope for millions of oppressed people around the world. President Obama should make it clear to these brave Iranians he hears their cries for freedom and recognizes their struggle. "President Obama is a gifted speaker whose words have moved millions. He can now use his voice to change the course of history. President Obama should make it clear that as long as the Iranians risk their lives in support of freedom, they will have an ally, friend, and supporter in the United States of America. "Now is the time for the United States, and all freedom loving people, to show our disgust with the behavior of the Iranian regime. We should take action. "I believe it would be appropriate and constructive for the U.S. to author a U.N .Security Council resolution condemning the regimes aggressive and brutal behavior toward its own people. We should consider strengthening economic sanctions against Iran. And finally, I hope the President will continue to speak out forcefully for the cause of freedom and explain to the world why Iranians are sacrificing their lives. They are standing for inalienable rights - life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness - which are universal. "The Iranian regime must also understand they will pay a high price for their brutal behavior. Words without action could be interpreted as a green light to continue their brutal tactics. "President Obama is a man of great talent. Just as President Reagan and Pope John Paul II inspired those behind the Iron Curtain, President Obama's voice could now be employed to inspire those in Iran. The rewards of success would be immense." #####
06.19.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after Inez Tenenbaum was confirmed as Chair of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). “I’m pleased the Senate has acted quickly on the nomination and confirmed her to this important position. I know Inez and am confident she will hit the ground running. She will look out for American consumers and provide the agency with the leadership it needs. “I also want to thank President Obama. He made an outstanding selection in choosing Inez Tenenbaum for this job.” #####
06.18.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC -- Wednesday night, the Senate unanimously approved the Lieberman-Graham Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act, legislation that would prevent the release of photos of detainees in US custody. The release of the photos would endanger American troops; destabilize Iraq, Pakistan, and Afghanistan; and serve as a terrorist recruiting tool just like the 2004 photos did, according to Generals David Petraeus and Ray Odierno. Graham and Lieberman noted that General Odierno, in a recent court filing, addressed the increase in violence after the 2004 release of detainee abuse photos. The general wrote, “The public dissemination of detainee abuse photos in 2004 likely contributed to a spike in violence in Iraq during the third quarter of 2004 as foreign fighters and domestic insurgents were drawn to Iraq to train and fight. Attacks on C[oalition] F[orces] increased from around 700 in March 2004 to 1800 in May (after the photographs were broadcast and published) and 2800 in August 2004. Attacks on C[oalition] F[orces] did not subside to March 2004 levels until June 2008. These increased attacks resulted in the death of Coalition Forces, Iraqi forces, and civilians." “Passing this bill is essential to protecting our fighting men and women,” said Senators Graham and Lieberman. “Each one of those photos would be tantamount to a death sentence to those serving our nation in the most dangerous and difficult spots like Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere. The President and overwhelming majorities in the Senate and the House have made it clear that these photos should not be released. Now it is the House’s turn to take swift action so the President can sign this bill and give our troops and their families the assurance they deserve that these photos will never be released. We’re hopeful the House will pass the legislation and have it on the President’s desk by July 8, the date of the next court hearing filing.” The Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act was unanimously approved by the Senate as an amendment to the supplemental appropriations bill, but was removed during the conference committee. At the time, President Obama wrote a letter to Chairman Inouye and Chairman Obey promising to “continue to take every legal and administrative remedy available to me to ensure the DoD detainee photographs are not released.” The President added, “Should a legislative solution prove necessary, I am committed to working with the Congress to enact legislation that achieves the objectives we share.” Graham and Lieberman have also been personally assured that if Congress fails to act on behalf of our troops, the President will take the appropriate Executive action to ensure the photos will never be released. “The best way to prevent the photos from being released is for the House to pass and the President to sign the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act,” said Graham and Lieberman. “Our legislation would bring this matter to a decisive conclusion. There is no reason to litigate this case further or even to rely on an executive order. Why would Congress not do something that could so easily help our men and women in uniform who are deployed abroad and fighting on our behalf? For our troops and for our nation, the sooner the better.” ####
06.17.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released his hold on the war funding bill and other Senate items after being provided with personal assurance from the Obama White House that photos depicting detainee abuse will not be released. Graham also received assurances from Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid that the Senate will hold a stand-alone vote on legislation Graham introduced with Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut) preventing the photos from being released. Graham made this statement after the agreement was reached and then announced on the Senate floor. “I have been given two important commitments for releasing my hold and allowing the Senate to proceed on other issues. “First, I have been personally assured by Rahm Emanuel, the White House Chief of Staff, that if Congress fails to do its part in protecting these photos from being released, President Obama will sign an Executive Order classifying the photos. He assured me these photos would not see the light of day. “Second, we will have a vote on Lieberman-Graham as a free-standing bill before July 8, the date of the next court hearing. Lieberman-Graham passed the Senate unanimously as an amendment to the war supplemental. I expect the vote will be similar when we take it up as a free-standing bill. After it passes the Senate I hope the House will act quickly on it and send it to President Obama’s desk. There are overwhelming majorities in both the House and Senate to pass this legislation into law quickly. “The people involved in Abu Ghraib and other detainee abuse allegations have been dealt with. These photos bring nothing new, but the effect of releasing these photos would be to empower our enemies. Every photo would become a bullet or IED used by terrorists against our troops. “I think we now have a game plan in place that will protect our men and women serving overseas.” ####
06.16.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Inez Tenenbaum’s nomination to serve as Chair of the Consumer Product Safety Commission (CPSC). Graham introduced Tenenbaum at a Senate Commerce Committee hearing this morning in Washington. “American consumers will be in good hands with Inez Tenenbaum at the helm of the Consumer Product Safety Commission. She has a wealth of executive experience and has been intimately involved in consumer advocacy issues as an attorney. “The Chairman of CPSC holds the public trust and I could not think of a better person to hold this position. Inez is someone everyone respects, whether you agree with her or not. She will look out for American consumers and provide the agency with the leadership it needs. “It is a big honor for South Carolina to have her nominated for this position. President Obama has made an outstanding selection in nominating Inez Tenenbaum and I look forward to seeing her confirmed by the Senate.” ####
06.09.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on Senator Patrick Leahy’s (D-Vermont) announcement that the hearings for the Supreme Court vacancy will begin on July 13th. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “A nomination to the Supreme Court is one of the most important issues to come before the Senate. I agree with Senator Sessions’ assessment that Chairman Leahy’s unilateral decision to rush these hearings is inappropriate. Judge Sotomayor has an extremely long record of around 3,600 cases to review. John Roberts, by comparison, only had 327 cases to review. “Additionally, Chairman Leahy’s schedule would provide the Committee with less time to review Judge Sotomayor’s record than it had for the nominations of Justices Roberts, Samuel Alito, Stephen Breyer, and Clarence Thomas. This is a rush schedule and I see no compelling reason for us to rush the process. The Supreme Court does not meet until the first week of October.” ####
06.09.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on published reports House Democrats and Speaker Nancy Pelosi are preparing to strip out the Lieberman-Graham amendment from the war supplemental funding bill. The amendment bolstered the Obama Administration’s legal position to prevent the release of photos of past detainee abuse. Graham made these statements at a Capitol Hill press conference with Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut). (A full transcript of the Graham-Lieberman press conference is available on Senator Graham’s blog. Audio and video should be available later this afternoon.) The House is ‘Off-Script’ "The Senate has jumped on board with President Obama. The only body that is off-script, in my opinion, is the House. If they drop this in conference, it will be one of the most outrageous and irresponsible acts in the history of the Congress. Why do I say that? Because it would mean that members of Congress will dismiss advice from commanders in the field at a time of war. And these are not just any commanders. These commanders have been at war for years. They know what they're talking about, Generals Petraeus and Odierno. They told us without any hesitation that if these photos are released our enemies will use it to incite violence against our troops. If these photos see the light of day, it will be a death sentence to some serving abroad.” Empowering our Enemies “The United States Congress being told by commanders in the field that if you release these photos, you're going to jeopardize the safety of our troops, who are already in harm's way, unnecessarily. What good is it to pass a supplemental giving our troops new weapons if also in the supplemental you give a weapon to the enemy to use against our own troops?” The ‘Fringe’ Element Opposes Lieberman-Graham Amendment “I cannot believe that we're about to do this, that we're going to dismiss the advice of our commanders who are leading our troops at the time of war to give into a fringe element in American politics. And make no doubt about it: This is a fringe element.” ‘Nothing new’ Added by Releasing Additional Photos: “I think the initial approach we took to Abu Ghraib overall has been helpful. We had to get this out. We got it out. People have been court-martialed. People have lost their jobs. The public had a chance to understand how badly we mismanaged Abu Ghraib, and quite frankly, the war. But to release additional photographs I think the commander-in-chief is right, it doesn't add anything to the debate.” ‘Life and death’ “This is life and death. And we're not going to let the fringe of American politics get young men and women killed who have done nothing wrong. They weren't part of these photos. They weren't part of this abuse. They're volunteers serving abroad. They've done nothing wrong, and we're not going to put them in harm's way unnecessarily because of a fringe element in American politics.” #####
06.08.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) today issued the following statement on the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act amendment to the Supplemental Appropriations bill: “We strongly believe that the first responsibilities of government are the nation's security and the protection of those brave Americans who go into harm's way to defend it. “The President has said that the release of the photos of detainees in US custody would 'put our troops and civilians serving our nation abroad in greater danger.' We agree with the Commander in Chief. “We will employ all the legislative means available to us including opposing the supplemental war spending bill and attaching this amendment, which was unanimously adopted by the Senate, to every piece of legislation the Senate considers, to be sure the President has the authority he needs not to release these photos and any others that would jeopardize the safety and security of our troops. “The release of the photos will serve as propaganda and recruiting tool for terrorists who seek to attack American citizens at home and abroad. We should strive to have as open a government as possible, but the behavior depicted in the photos has been prohibited and is being investigated. The photos do not depict anything that is not already known. Transparency, and in this case needless transparency, should not be paid for with the lives of American citizens, let alone the lives of our men and women in uniform fighting on our behalf in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere. “Let it clearly be understood that without this legislation the photos in question are likely to be released. Such a release would be tantamount to a death sentence to some who are serving our nation in the most dangerous and difficult spots like Iraq and Afghanistan. It is this certain knowledge of these consequences of having the photos released that will cause us to vote against the supplemental and continue our push to turn our important amendment into law.” ####
06.04.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today placed this statement in the Congressional Record on the 20th Anniversary of the brutal crackdown in Tiananmen Square. "Mr. President, today marks a somber anniversary. Twenty years ago today, months of peaceful protests throughout China culminated with the violent deaths of hundreds, if not thousands, of Chinese citizens advocating for democratic reforms. It is with sadness that we mark this occasion, but it is also an opportunity to renew our call for political reform in the People's Republic of China. "One of the first things you see when you walk into my office is a large poster depicting the iconic image of a lone man staring down a line of Chinese tanks. This image has come to symbolize the worldwide struggle for democracy, the rule of law, and the promotion of basic human rights. "Unfortunately, a generation of students in China can't identify the image or tell you about the events leading up to June 3rd and 4th, 1989. This is because China has failed to acknowledge or account for the actions that led up to this event. "While the intervening years since the tragedy have seen China grow into a rapidly developing country, economically intertwined with the rest of the world, China's failure to deal with the Tiananmen events prevents the nation from making the political reforms necessary to truly become a respected member of the international community. "In the years following Tiananmen, leaders of the Communist Party of China including Jiang Zemin, declared, "If we had not taken absolute measures at the time, we would not have the stability we enjoy today. A bad thing has turned out to be good." "General Chi Haotian, the General in charge of the People's Liberation Army's response to the protest later stated that, "I can tell you in a responsible and serious manner that at that time not a single person lost his life in Tiananmen Square." "Leaders of the military crackdown such as Deng Xiaoping and Li Peng, have never been held accountable for the actions of the People's Liberation Army and there has never been an official acknowledgement of the number of protesters killed or put in prison. Some accounts have claimed that more than 20,000 people were arbitrarily arrested and held without trial. A number of these people remain in prison today. "Today would have been a landmark occasion for the Chinese government to announce that they were starting an independent and open investigation relating to the events of June 4, 1989. However, other than checkpoints set up in Tiananmen Square and efforts by the Chinese government to prevent international media outlets from filming in the square, there are no signs that today is anything other than an ordinary day in China. "While the events of twenty years ago by the Chinese government launched a coordinated effort to prevent further unrest, it also helped crystallize a movement that continues today. "Democracy advocates in China have built upon the legacy of Tiananmen and have led various efforts to force accountability and political reforms. All who watch China applaud the tireless work of Ding Zilin, the leader of Tiananmen Mothers, Liu Xiaobo and the rest of Charter 08, as well as countless others such as Jiang Qisheng who continue to face intimidation and imprisonment, yet persist with their cause. "They can rest assured that ultimately their efforts will be successful. Today's world is increasingly interconnected. Communication and travel have gotten easier, and with the development of the internet, despite censorship efforts, information is becoming more readily available to the Chinese people. "Every day it becomes more difficult for the Chinese government to keep its people in the dark. They will find out about Tiananmen, they will find out about how the outside world operates, they will demand changes at home." #######
06.04.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the South Carolina Supreme Court decision forcing the Governor to apply for the stimulus funding. "While I have great respect for the Court, I am very concerned this decision has caused great damage to separation of powers within our state government. Separation of powers is a concept that has served our state and nation well. "While I disagreed with the Governor's decision to not apply for the stimulus funds, I believe it was his decision to make under the federal statute. "With today's ruling it appears our courts have substituted the General Assembly's discretion for that of the Governor. One could easily see it, in a legal sense, as an assault on the highest office in our state. This decision will erode the power of the governor to make discretionary decisions conferred upon him by the federal government. "If the governor is unable to perform the task set forward in the federal law, I fear that the governorship has, in many ways, been reduced to a ministerial job. "The office of the Governor is the highest elected position in the state and one in which every eligible voter has the opportunity to have a say on. Long after the $700 million in stimulus funds is exhausted the impact of this ruling will continue to be felt. I fear today's decision will haunt our state for decades to come." #####
06.03.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) met today with Supreme Court nominee Judge Sonia Sotomayor in his Washington office. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. After the 35-minute meeting, Graham answered questions from the media. Video and a transcript of the press availability are provided below. Senator Graham Media Availability after Meeting with Supreme Court Nominee Judge Sonia Sotomayor June 3, 2009 GRAHAM: Thanks for coming. Good meeting, very nice person. I was as direct as I knew how to be. A lot of the questions about case law and judicial temperament will be covered in more detail when we get more information and I've had time to study. This was sort of a get-to-know-you meeting. She is a impressive person. She's accomplished a lot in her life. And I was very direct. I said that, I've got to decide how to play this game, quite frankly. And I indicated to the -- to her and the White House, if I used President Obama's standard, Senator Obama's standard, I would never vote for her. He voted against Alito and Roberts, and he basically said - and you can look it up for yourself -- that some people believe that, once the president wins the election, they should have complete authority to appoint the nominee and the only thing you look for is whether they're intellectually capable and they're a nice guy. He went on to say that you have to do more. You have to look at the judge's philosophy, ideology, and record. "And when I examined the philosophy, ideology and record of Sam Alito, I'm deeply troubled." Well, when I look at her ideology, record, and philosophy, I'm deeply troubled, if that's my standard. Talented person, but there's no way, as a conservative Republican, I would have ever picked her to be on the Supreme Court. And I think that's what Senator Obama was trying to basically say. My base doesn't like Alito and Roberts, and I'm thinking about running for higher office, so I'm not going to vote for him, because the people I'm trying to please here don't like the nominee. He used a standard that would make it impossible, I think, for a person of the opposite party to be able to confirm a nominee of someone of the other party. There was a different day when we didn't do it that way. Justice Ginsburg, 96-3, the general counsel executive director, I believe, of the ACLU, 96-3. Justice Scalia, pretty conservative, 98-0. What happened to those days? That's not the Senate I've been part of. I would like to go back to that, but I live in a world where it may be very difficult to do that. If I use the Ginsburg-Scalia standard, she has a chance of getting my vote. If I use the Senator Obama standard, there's no way she will get my vote. The hurdle that she would have to overcome if I used the Scalia-Ginsburg standard, is this temperament problem overstated, overblown, or is it fundamental to who she is? And is she more than just a liberal judge? Is she an activist advocate wearing a robe and has used the bench as a way to advocate her causes, rather than decide the law? She said all of the things that I would like to hear. She said the things that Alito and Roberts said, that I'm bound by the law. Well, there are some cases that I'm going to look at as to - to challenge her a bit as to whether or not that withstands scrutiny. The end of the day, the president has chosen someone who's accomplished a lot, is very educated, and has a long judicial record. At the end of the day, he's asking me to do something he couldn't do himself, and that is to look at the complete person and understand that elections matter. Quite frankly, I think, when Senator Obama voted against Alito and Roberts, he lost sight that elections really do matter. And now he's in a different spot. I'm in a different spot. So we'll see what happens. Any questions? QUESTION: Yes, Senator. Can I just make clear (OFF-MIKE) want to look at her ideology and her record, and I'm troubled, were you saying that on behalf of Lindsey Graham or were you quoting Senator Obama? GRAHAM: I'm saying that, if I applied the Obama standard - and let me just be direct -- "I believe that it calls for meaningful advice and consent that includes an examination of a judge's philosophy, ideology and record. And when I examined the philosophy, ideology and record of Sam Alito, I'm deeply troubled." Well, if I apply that standard to her, I am deeply troubled, because she doesn't share my judicial philosophy. She doesn't share my ideology. And her case decisions, the judge I would appoint would probably come out differently. Does that mean she's not qualified to be on the Supreme Court? Well, there was a day where, no, it didn't mean that, because no Republican could have voted for Justice Ginsburg believing that she shared their philosophy. And there could be no mystery as to where she's going to come out on these cases. Every now and then, there is a mystery. Souter is one of those cases, probably was a bit of a mystery. But not with her, and not with Scalia. No Democrat could have ever doubted one bit as to where Justice Scalia would come out in the 5 percent of the cases. And how did he vote against Roberts, one of the most qualified people in the history of the United States? Senator Obama said judicial experience, following the case law, understanding the law, character, temperament, intellect get you 25 miles of a 26-mile marathon. That last mile is how you'll decide that 5 percent of the cases, the cases where Scalia and Ginsburg differ. And here's what he said: That "last mile can only be determined on the basis of one's deepest values, one's core concerns, one's broader perspective on how the world works, and the depth and breadth of one's empathy." Now, if I use that standard, she's not going to get my vote. QUESTION: Senator GRAHAM (OFF-MIKE) think about (OFF-MIKE) Newt Gingrich wrote an op-ed today (OFF-MIKE) explicitly saying that he's backing off (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: I think it speaks well of Newt, because my criticism about her comments in the speech that she gave wasn't that I think that this lady is a racist. I don't. And the reason I don't is because all the people who've worked with here throughout her life, all of the people who agree with her and disagree with her, no one's ever said that about her. There is no evidence of that. But this statement is troubling. And I did tell her this. If I had said that, it would be over for me. No matter how well intentioned I was and no matter how much I tried to put it in context, that would be it. And you all know that, and America knows that. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: I think she was somewhat moved. You need to ask her about this. I'm not going to put words in her mouth. But I do believe that it's not fair to call her a racist based on that statement. I do think she needs to explain herself. I do think she needs to understand she has offended some people. And I'll let her speak as to what the appropriate response is. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: And I'm glad Newt has -- has taken... (CROSSTALK) QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Well, I think any time that you get -- words like that really do hit hard. And she didn't deserve that. I think she deserves to be challenged. I think she needs to prove to me and others, not just me, but anybody out there who's looking for an independent judge that, if they found themselves in litigation with a Latina woman, you fill in the blanks, that she would give you a fair shake. That's up to her. It is fair to make her address that question and prove it. It is not fair to say that she's a racist. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) that she would (OFF-MIKE) you're concerned that she might discriminate against somebody who's not a Latino and calling her a racist (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Well, I think the way you live your life. I mean, she made a statement. She was trying to articulate that all the things I've gone through in life as a Latino woman, of which I'm very proud, I've come a long way, and I've had a hard struggle. I think that makes me a little better than the average, everyday white guy. Well, being an average, everyday white guy, does it make her better than Roberts or Alito? That's not exactly -- makes me feel good to hear a sitting judge say that. But do I think in her heart that she hates white people? No. I think it was a -- a misspoken statement. I think it was offensive. I think it needs to be corrected. But I'm looking at who she is, and there's no doubt in my mind she's a good person. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Well, I'll leave that up to her. It's for her to correct it, not me. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: I'll not put words in her mouth about this whole line of inquiry. QUESTION: Did she apologize? GRAHAM: You need to ask her. QUESTION: Did you ask for an apology? GRAHAM: You need to ask her. QUESTION: But did you ask for an apology? You said (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: No, I didn't ask for an apology. You need to ask her. QUESTION: Senator (OFF-MIKE) conversations are like now between yourself and Republican members of the Judiciary Committee on how to proceed? GRAHAM: We haven't had any yet. I think you know what I'm going to do. I mean, what I've got to decide is, what standard am I going to apply? And I think I've laid out pretty clearly where I'm going. QUESTION: Senator, is there any chance you could vote for her at this point? GRAHAM: Well, if I adopt the Ginsburg-Scalia standard, yes. But she's still got some mountains to climb. QUESTION: What do (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Well, one, like looking at her cases and having five minutes to think about her record. You know, she's been in this for a win (ph). So have I. This is a big deal. I mean, the only reason you wouldn't vote for someone appointed by a president that you lost to is that they put someone who was not qualified, just doesn't have the intellectual capacity. I don't believe that about her at all. I think she does have the intellectual capacity to do the job. But there's a character problem. There's a temperament problem that they -- during the time they've had to be a judge, that they were more of an advocate than an impartial decider of the law. And I've got to find out, in my own mind, am I comfortable saying that she -- her temperament problem is not a basic, it's not who she is, that these evaluations by the people that were in front of her court represent a small slice of the pie? QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) how much stock do you put in those evaluations? Do you think that... (CROSSTALK) GRAHAM: Well, I mean... QUESTION: ... ratings are credible? GRAHAM: Yes, generally speaking. I mean, it's (ph) six or eight people. But the fact that they all said the same thing, there are other judges on that court, too. And no one seemed to come out from a lawyer's perspective. I just don't like bully judges. I don't mind being challenged. And if I screw up in court, the judge can hammer me, nobody to blame but me. But there are some judges that have an edge, that do not wear the robe well. I don't like that. From what I can tell, her temperament and demeanor, she seems to be a very nice person. Scalia is no shrinking violet. He's tough. There's a difference between tough and a bully. And I don't know what those evaluations mean and her entire context (ph) of her entire legal career. And that's part of the process here. What do other people say who've been on the other side of her as an advocate? What do the people say that work in the office with her? What do the other judges say who served on the bench? QUESTION: Senator, if you vote no (OFF-MIKE) essentially (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: I'm not doing the country any good of looking back and trying to play a game for tit for tat, but I am not going to put my party at a disadvantage. If this is the way the game's going to be played, if this is the way we're going to do it, then this is going to be the way you go forward, then I'll have to -- I'll have to consider that. I mean, this is a -- you know, he's basically asking me to do something he didn't do himself. The vice president didn't vote, I think, for either one of these people. And I'm just really astonished that we've come from Scalia and Ginsburg getting 96 and 98 votes to Alito and Roberts would -- would lose a lot of votes. In Alito's case, he only got 58, and he actually got filibustered for a while. And we haven't even started talking about Miguel Estrada. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) hearing from other people, do you hope at her confirmation hearing there are people who QUESTIONed her temperament (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Well, yes, I would -- we know what the almanac says, but I'd like to hear the other side, too. I mean, just meeting her, I mean, obviously, she's going to be nice to me. I mean, she's not going to come in here and give me a hard time. But you could -- you know, from what I can tell, from the people that I know that know her, that she seems to be a very, very decent person. But I just wonder why all the lawyers said the same thing. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Well, the one thing I can tell you, this is going to be a big deal. This is more about than just her confirmation. We've got some big issues to resolve here. This comment she made, this speech she gave, that needs to -- that needs to come to a conclusion in a way that makes us a better country, that maybe this is sort of what Eric Holder was talking about, that we need to -- just need to put these things on the table. It's not fair to say that that one speech would end her hopes and dreams of being on the Supreme Court. But is it true that it would end in someone else's? I think so. And she's got an opportunity here now to explain that. And maybe actually we can come out of this thing stronger as a nation. QUESTION: So does that mean the hearings need to happen in July? GRAHAM: That means that I think the hearings ought to happen in September, and she ought to be voted upon, if everybody feels that there's no extraordinary circumstance here justifying a filibuster, and I can't find one right now. QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Huh? QUESTION: (OFF-MIKE) September (OFF-MIKE) GRAHAM: Well, all I can tell you is that there's a lot to look at. There's 3,000, almost 4,000 cases. You get one shot at this. Justice Roberts was voted on September the 29th. And if you used Alito-Roberts timetable, that puts us at September. I have no desire to make this hard for the sake of making it hard. I have no desire to make it quick for the sake of making it quick. And she deserves to be challenged firmly and fairly so, and she also needs people like me to acknowledge that she's come a long way and got a lot to be proud of. Thank you all.
06.01.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on General Motors filing for bankruptcy. “It is a sad day for America to see General Motors have to resort to bankruptcy. Unfortunately, their current business model was doomed to failure in the global economy. “I believe the government bailouts of General Motors should have stopped a long time ago. It is unfair to other car companies who manufacture in the United States to have to compete against auto companies owned by the federal government. The Obama Administration has made a serious mistake with its massive intervention into our economy as a whole and particularly with the domestic auto industry. “Let’s be clear, much of the government’s actions leading up to the bankruptcy proceedings have been driven by union politics. The Obama Administration has put the interests of the unions first, even ahead of the American taxpayer. I strongly disagree with their decisions on this matter. I also recognize the unfortunate burden this places on the many family-owned car dealers and auto parts suppliers who will be forced to close their doors through no fault of their own. “I have no desire for the government to own and operate a car company. I will work to put Members of Congress on record as to whether or not they support the Obama Administration’s intervention in the domestic car manufacturing industry.” #####
06.01.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Senator Graham was a guest on Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace to discuss the nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to the United States Supreme Court. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Video of the interview is available here. The transcript is below: Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace May 31, 2009 Chris Wallace, Host Lindsey Graham, U.S. Senator (R-South Carolina) Arlen Specter, U.S. Senator (D-Pennsylvania) WALLACE: I'm Chris Wallace, and this is FOX News Sunday.A Supreme Court nominee is announced, and battle lines start taking shape. Will Judge Sonia Sotomayor be confirmed? We'll ask two leading members of the Senate committee that will decide her fate, Republican Lindsey Graham and recent Democratic convert Arlen Specter. Then, our new series on the future of the GOP, Right Now -- how do Republicans rebuild and challenge President Obama? We'll kick off the conversation with Mitt Romney, only on FOX News Sunday. Also, North Korea shows off its military might. We'll ask our Sunday regulars what the U.S. can do about it. And our Power Players of the Week offer life lessons to the class of '09, all right now on FOX News Sunday. And hello again from Fox News in Washington. With the nomination of Sonia Sotomayor to the Supreme Court, we have brought in two leading members of the Senate Judiciary Committee who she will face during confirmation. From Philadelphia, Arlen Specter -- a veteran of many hearings as a Republican. He's to a Democrat. And here in studio, Lindsey Graham, who was and is a Republican. Senators, welcome back to FOX News Sunday. GRAHAM: Good morning. SPECTER: Good to be with you. WALLACE: Thank you. GRAHAM: Good morning, Arlen. WALLACE: Let's start with Judge Sotomayor's controversial speech back in 2001 in which she said she hoped that a wise Latina woman judge would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male judge. On Friday President Obama tried to walk that back. Let's watch. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) OBAMA: I'm sure she would have restated it, but if you look in the entire sweep of the essay that she wrote, what's clear is that she was simply saying that her life experiences will give her information about the struggles and hardships that people are going through. That will make her a good judge. (END VIDEO CLIP) WALLACE: Senator Graham, does that clear it up for you? GRAHAM: No, she didn't say that at all. What she said is that based on her life experiences, that she felt a Latina woman, somebody with her background, would be a better judge than a guy like me, a white guy from South Carolina. And it is troubling, and it's inappropriate, and I hope she'll apologize. And if I had said something like that or someone with my background and profile, we wouldn't be talking about this nomination going forward. But we'll listen to what she has to say. But she's got to prove to me that if I found myself in court with a Latina woman in front of her I'd get a fair shake, and that's up to her to do. WALLACE: Well, let me follow up. Newt Gingrich says that she's a racist. Rush Limbaugh compares her to former Klansman David Duke. Are they right? GRAHAM: No. They interject themselves in the debate. They've got an audience to entertain, and Newt's a political commentator. I'm a United States senator. But I do know this, that statement is not about talking abut her life experiences. It's getting from her life experiences a superiority based on those experiences versus somebody else in society. And I don't want that kind of person being a judge in my case. But I don't think she's a racist. I think she's -- she should be proud of what she's accomplished in life. But to lead to the conclusion that all the hardship she has gone through makes her better than me is inappropriate. WALLACE: Senator Specter, are you troubled by Judge Sotomayor's comments and also about President Obama's empathy remarks? What happened to the idea that justice should be blind and not favoring one side over another? SPECTER: Well, when President Obama said that, I think he's looking for diversity, and I think Judge Sotomayor brings that. But let's put her comment in context with the whole speech, and it didn't stand out all that much in context. And further, put it in context with her whole record. She has an extraordinary academic record -- Princeton and Yale, a prosecutor, have experience in international trade matters, on the district court, trial court experience, circuit court of appeals. So she has an extraordinary record. And I believe that it's fair to ask her about the question, but she has a long solid record to show that she's fair and not biased. WALLACE: But, Senator, when she said -- and those were her words -- that I would think that more often than not -- I would hope that a wise Latina woman judge would reach better conclusions than a white male judge, what do you think she meant? SPECTER: Well, I think she meant that somebody with her experience has something to add. Look, we live in a very diverse society, and it is really surprising that it took until 1967 to have an African American, Thurgood Marshall, on the court, or that it took until 1981 to have a woman, Sandra Day O'Connor, on the court. And still, there are only two women. And that in this kind of a diverse society, if you go back to the Supreme Court discussion room, very small room, small table, nine people sit around and decide monumental questions, and of -- the diversity and the point of view of Latina woman is significant. It adds to the mix. WALLACE: Senator Specter, the issue of identity politics has been raised specifically in the Ricci case, a case that she decided as part of a three-judge panel earlier this year, in which she sided with the city of New Haven, throwing out a promotion exam in which 20 white and Hispanic firefighters would have been eligible for a promotion but no African Americans. One, do you think that she was right on Ricci? And does it raise concerns that she made a decision based on race? SPECTER: I think she was well within the ambit of discretion of a judge. Different judges see issues differently. And you have Supreme Court deciding cases 5-4. But I think her judgment there was very sound. Is race a factor? Well, it really is in our society. There's no hiding from it, notwithstanding all of the progress which has been made. And the New Haven firefighters case is like so many tough ones. You want to be sure that the white applicants get a fair shot, and you want to be sure that the minority applicants get a fair shot. And a very tough call, but she made a justifiable call, in my legal opinion. WALLACE: Senator Graham, do you have a problem with Ricci? And what about the comparison that some of her supporters make to what Justice Alito said during his confirmation hearing? Let's watch. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) JUDGE ALITO: When I get a case about discrimination, I have to think about people in my own family who suffered discrimination because of their ethnic background or because of religion or because of gender. And I do take that in to account. (END VIDEO CLIP) WALLACE: Senator Graham, what's the difference? GRAHAM: Well, I think the difference is that we're talking about a comment she made about her life experiences basically making her superior to someone, not that I would add something new to the court, that the people on the other side basically have less to offer than I do. How this case turns out, I don't know. It's a difficult fact pattern. But the judicial temperament of this judge is in question, her philosophy. I know this, that if I use the Obama standard for confirmation, she would never get my vote, because Obama -- President Obama as senator voted against Alito and Roberts, two highly qualified people, saying that you need to look at the philosophy, ideology and legal record. If I do that, if I look at her philosophy, her legal philosophy, which I think is very activist in nature -- this empathy word is just a code word for activism. If I look at her ideology that's being expressed in some of these cases and that one comment, I could never vote for her as a Republican. And President Obama better hope that Republicans treat her better than he treated President Bush's nominee. WALLACE: Let me bring you another case which may raise the issue of activism and trying to make policy from the bench. This year, Judge Sotomayor joined a ruling that it is settled law that the Second Amendment applies to federal restrictions on guns or weapons, the right to bear arms, but not on state laws. And she based this on an 1886 Supreme Court ruling rather than the ruling that the Supreme Court made just last year upholding an individual right to bear arms. Senator Graham, do you see pattern or do you see that as an instance of Judge Sotomayor making policy from the bench? GRAHAM: If the -- if the legislative law doesn't sit with her, she finds a way as a judge to get around it, in my opinion. When the Congress or the legislature comes up with a law that she doesn't like or feel comfortable with, she's looking for a way to get around that law rather than living within the confines of the way the law is written. That's activism at its core, and that case that you just mentioned expresses that. But having said that, she is going to get firmly treated and fairly treated. Miguel Estrada was Hispanic, nominated to one of the highest courts in the land. He didn't get very well treated. WALLACE: This was an appeals court judge nominee from George W. Bush. GRAHAM: Yes. I intend to do better than our Democratic colleagues did with Ms. Sotomayor. WALLACE: Senator Specter, in voting for John Roberts to be a Supreme Court justice, you said the following. Let's watch. (BEGIN VIDEO CLIP) SPECTER: He emphasized the point that judges are not politicians and that judges really ought to be having a view of the law which does not inject their own personal views into the law. (END VIDEO CLIP) WALLACE: Senator Specter, can you honestly say that judge Sotomayor's statements and rulings live up to that standard? SPECTER: Well, Chris, yes, I can. Let's evaluate her in the context of the hundreds of opinions which she has written. You take one statement she made many years ago, you take a couple of cases -- and they ought to be scrutinized, and I'm going to participate in asking firm questions, probing questions. That's the job of a senator under the Constitution. But evaluate Judge Sotomayor's record in the totality of her cases, not just picking a snatch here and a snatch there. WALLACE: Senator Specter, given the fact that you just switch parties and just became a Democrat, don't you, as matter of practical politics, have to vote for President Obama's nominee? SPECTER: No. No. I am duty-bound under the Constitution to exercise independent judgment under separation of powers. Look here, one of the most highly touted Republican nominees for the Supreme Court ever by a Republican president was Judge Bork. And he was of my own party. And I thought it was my duty to analyze what Judge Bork had to say about original intent and to make an independent judgment under separation of powers. And my record is pretty obvious in having voted on an independent basis, and that's a senator's responsibility. And, Chris, you can be sure I'm going to discharge it. WALLACE: Let me ask you both about the question of schedule. Senator Graham, President Obama -- the White House is pushing for this all to be decided, a confirmation vote, not just by the Judiciary Committee but by the full Senate before you go on August recess about the 7th of August. Are you going to do that? GRAHAM: I don't think that's practical. I don't think that's appropriate. Chief Justice Roberts was voted on September the 29th. We've got a lot to do. We don't really know much about her. The FBI report is not done yet. If you use the Alito-Roberts standard, we're looking at September. And I'm not going to cut this sort. She is somebody that has accomplished a lot in America, but my question is does she really understand what America is about. To come as far as she has is a great compliment to her. But we don't need to take those experiences and say somebody else is smaller because they're different. And I hope she will apologize for the comment we're all talking about. WALLACE: Senator Specter, can you get it done and should you get it done before the August recess? I can remember when you were on the Republican side you used to jealously guard your discretion to hold hearings and schedule votes when you wanted to. SPECTER: I think it can be done by the end of the July session. Let's take a look at the record and evaluate all of the extent of the paperwork. But from this perspective, I think it's do-able. And I think it's important to have her on the bench when the court starts to consider in September the applications for certiorari, what cases they're going to hear. We might have to work Mondays and Fridays to do it, but we can get it done. WALLACE: Senator Specter, I'm -- can you hear me still, sir? SPECTER: Sure do. WALLACE: Oh, good. OK, because we wondered -- we thought there might be a technical problem. I've got about a minute left and I want to ask you two quick questions. You admit -- and you were very open about it -- that you switched parties because, in large measure, you faced a very tough Republican primary. Now Congressman Joe Sestak says that you're more concerned about your job than you are about your state and that he may oppose you in the Democratic primary. First question: Are you certain that you can beat Joe Sestak in the Democratic primary? SPECTER: Chris, in a political campaign there's no such thing as certainty. Listen, it's a free society. I didn't ask that the field be cleared. There was no discussion of that. Everybody ought to run if he or she wants to run. And I'm ready to take on all comers. WALLACE: And finally, as the newest and most junior Democrat on the Judiciary Committee, instead of having that position right next to the chairman, you're going to be all the way down at the end of the table and probably questioning Judge Sotomayor at 1:00 in the morning. How do you feel about your loss of status, sir? SPECTER: I feel that I can handle it. Listen, it wasn't next to the chairman. I was the chairman during the Roberts and Alito confirmation hearings. I was way down the line when Judge Bork was up for confirmation, and my voice was heard loudly and clearly. WALLACE: Well, it always is. Senator Specter, Senator Graham, I want to thank you both so much for joining us today. GRAHAM: Thank you. WALLACE: It should be an interesting summer. SPECTER: Nice to be with you. Thank you. WALLACE: Thank you. ######
05.26.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Judge Sonia Sotomayor to serve on the United States Supreme Court. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I do not know Judge Sotomayor. I look forward to meeting with her and discussing the important issues confronting the court. “As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, I intend to be fair and firm in my questioning of the nominee. The hearings can be a valuable public service as they give us a window into the nominee’s judicial philosophy and disposition. I hope we will have a meaningful opportunity to explore the qualifications, judicial temperament and judicial philosophy of Judge Sotomayor. “I was fortunate to serve on the Senate Judiciary Committee during the confirmation hearings of both John Roberts and Samuel Alito. Under intense questioning in private and public settings, both nominees advanced clear and concise understandings of the law. I was proud to vote for their confirmation.” #####
05.22.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Richard Burr (R-NC), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA) and U.S. Representative John Kline (R-MN), will lead the official Memorial Day Ceremonies at the Normandy American Cemetery in France. On May 24, the members will honor the extraordinary contributions of veterans to our nation at the Normandy American Cemetery. As Ranking Member of the Veteran Affairs Committee, Senator Burr will deliver a speech to commemorate the courage and sacrifice of those who landed at Normandy almost 65 years ago. The members will then lay a wreath in honor of the thousands of American service members who gave their lives on the beaches of Normandy and made possible the liberation of Europe in World War II. “My father served in the Army Air Corps in World War II in the Pacific theater," said Graham. "I remember very well the pride he took in serving our nation. He always talked about his buddies who didn’t make it home as being the 'real heroes.' I am honored and humbled to be able to spend this Memorial Day in the company of those 'real heroes.' In a far away land, they made the ultimate sacrifice for the nation they loved. We remain thankful for their service and will forever remember their sacrifice." “These veterans, who so selflessly gave of themselves and paid the ultimate price for our country, strengthened the foundation of our grateful nation,” Senator Burr said. “We owe these brave Americans a debt we will never be able to fully repay. I am honored to be able to represent the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, the United States Senate, and North Carolina on such hallowed ground.” “Sixty-five years ago, young American men hailing from big cities, sleepy towns and small farms struggled through Normandy’s churning surf amid a hail of gunfire to secure Europe’s freedom. Thousands never came back,” said Chambliss, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “I am humbled by their sacrifice and honored to remember them – including 213 Georgians – in this final resting place on the edge of the continent they liberated.” “The freedoms and liberties we cherish on this day are owed to the blood and sacrifice of the veterans buried here,” said Minnesota Congressman John Kline, a 25-year veteran of the Marine Corps who retired at the rank of Colonel. “This Memorial Day, we honor all of those who left us too soon, whose lives were cut short on distant battlefields. We must never forget those true American heroes to whom we owe so much.” The ceremony will highlight the contributions made by our nation’s veterans, many of whom paid the ultimate price in the struggle against tyranny and oppression. # # #
05.22.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate unanimously passed an amendment last night introduced by U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) which establishes a procedure to block release of the detainee photos. Last week, after consulting with General Petraeus, General Odierno, and others, President Obama decided to fight the release of photographs that depict the treatment of detainees in U.S. custody. Those photographs are the subject of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union. “This vote is an important statement of support for the protection of our troops who are on the front lines defending our country at a time of war,” said Lieberman. “This amendment provides the President with the ability to block the publication of the photos that would endanger the safety of our men and women in uniform.” “Our military commanders have, to a person, stated that releasing these photographs will increase violence against out troops and civilians serving overseas,” said Graham. “I agree. Nothing will be gained by their release in terms of new information about detainee abuse. Americans will be killed because of their release and this amendment is designed to stop that from happening. I applaud the President’s decision to fight the release of these photographs. Our legislation will strengthen the Obama Administration’s legal standing in court and that is why the Senate has unanimously passed this important piece of legislation.” The Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act was offered as an amendment to the Supplemental Appropriations bill that was passed by the Senate last night. The amendment authorizes the Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, to certify that the disclosure of photographs like the ones at issue in the ACLU lawsuit would endanger the lives of our citizens or members of the Armed Forces or civilian employees of the United States government deployed abroad. The certification would last three years and could be renewed by the Secretary of Defense if the threat to American personnel continues. Also, the language in the bill is clear that it would apply to the current ACLU lawsuit. ####
05.19.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) today introduced the Detainee Photographic Records Protection Act which would establish a procedure to block release of the detainee photos. The Senators plan to offer the legislation as an amendment to the Supplemental Appropriations bill that is being deliberated on the Senate floor this week. Last week, after consulting with General Petraeus, General Odierno, and others, President Obama decided to fight the release of photographs that depict the treatment of detainees in U.S. custody. Those photographs are the subject of a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit filed by the American Civil Liberties Union. This legislation would authorize the Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, to certify to the President that the disclosure of photographs like the ones at issue in the ACLU lawsuit would endanger the lives of our citizens or members of the Armed Forces or civilian employees of the United States government deployed abroad. The certification would last five years and could be renewed by the Secretary of Defense if the threat to American personnel continues. Also, the language in the bill is clear that it would apply to the current ACLU lawsuit. “The President made a bold decision as Commander in Chief that will protect our troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere and make it easier for them to carry out the missions that we have asked them to do,” said Lieberman. “This measure would codify the President’s decision to block release of these photos and thereby help protect our troops who are defending our country and our liberty.” “The publication of those photographs would only endanger the safety of our troops who go into harm's way in defense of America,” said Graham. “Our country has taken steps to prevent any future abuse of detainees and no public good is now served by releasing these photographs. Our legislation will strengthen the Obama Administration’s legal standing in court and it should be adopted.” ####
05.19.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- United States Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut) today introduced legislation prohibiting enemy combatants held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba from being released into the United States. Under the Graham/Lieberman legislation, enemy combatants ordered to be released will be transferred into the custody of the Department of Homeland Security while waiting to be returned to their home country or if they unable to return there, another nation. Media reports have suggested that there is consideration of the release of Chinese Uighurs (Wee-gurs), who trained at terrorist camps in Afghanistan and have been detained at Guantanamo Bay since 2002, into the northern Virginia suburbs. “The legislation is clear -- former enemy combatants should not be released into the general population of the United States,” said Graham. “Any decision to do this will put Americans at unnecessary risk. Former enemy combatants should be turned over to the Department of Homeland Security until they can be repatriated to another nation. Even though they may not present a direct threat to the United States, it is important to remember the Uighurs were captured in an Al Qaeda training camp and many of them have radical religious views which make it difficult for them to assimilate into our population. Additionally, our immigration laws prohibit the release into the United States any persons who have been part of a terrorist organization. The Uighurs are certainly guilty of this offense.” “It is imperative that we make it clear that the closing of Guantanamo prison will not result in the freeing of any detainee into American communities,” said Lieberman. “Any detainee cleared for release should be transferred to the custody of the Department of Homeland Security. That is a common-sense solution that protects our security and keeps potential terrorists off American streets.” The Senators noted that the 17 Uighurs currently being held at Guantanamo Bay have petitioned for release into the United States. ####
05.15.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the decision by President Obama to use military commissions to try terror suspects. “I support President Obama’s decision to seek a further stay of military commission trials. Today’s action will afford us the opportunity to reform the military commission system and produce a comprehensive policy regarding present and future detainees. “In my first meeting with then President-elect Obama in Chicago in December 2008, we discussed a path forward for Guantanamo detainees. I appreciated the opportunity to meet with him and focus on the types of reforms that would protect our national security interests and help repair the damage done to our nation’s image. I continue to believe it is in our own national security interests to separate ourselves from the past problems of Guantanamo. “Since that initial meeting I have personally met with the President on two occasions and with his staff numerous times to discuss detention policy. Our meetings have covered a wide range of topics including the various ways we could improve the military commission system to ideas on establishing a proper and appropriate oversight role for the federal courts. “I have had extensive discussions with military commanders and other Department of Defense officials about the overall benefit to the war effort of reforming our nation’s detainee policies. The commanders believe a reformed system would be beneficial to the war effort as long as such a system is national security-centric. “Detainee policy is very complex. The President wants to collaborate with Congress to reform detainee policy and we should use this additional time to come up with a sensible national security policy regarding terror suspects. “I believe a comprehensive plan should be in place before Guantanamo is closed. “I also believe that no detainees should be released into the United States. Detainees determined by the military or a federal judge to no longer be held as enemy combatants should be transferred to the custody of the Department of Homeland Security pending their transfer to another country. “I agree with the President and our military commanders that now is the time to start over and strengthen our detention policies. I applaud the President’s actions.” ######
05.12.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on Social Security Trustees Report. "The day the Trust Fund begins to pay out more in benefits than it collects in taxes is the beginning of the end for Social Security. Due to the long and deep recession our nation is mired in, that day is now closer than anticipated. The recession has had a disastrous effect on the general economy and the finances of the Social Security program. "The good news is that with decisive action by the Congress and President we can make adjustments to repair the system in a permanent fashion. These adjustments would be done gradually over time. No solution would harm to those currently receiving Social Security benefits or near-term retirees. They will be protected. "Congress and the President must act quickly and in a comprehensive manner to save Social Security from impending bankruptcy. The sooner we take action the less drastic the solution. The longer we wait the more draconian. "With a popular President and a strong contingent of Members of Congress from both parties who see the need to act now, we can get this done. I stand ready to meet the President and any Member of Congress who is ready and willing to act. This is an opportunity to repair the safety net that millions of Americans will rely on for their future retirement. Let's not miss this opportunity." #####
05.07.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut) today wrote to President Obama expressing grave concern over the impending release of photographs of detainees captured in the war on terror and held by American military personnel. The release of photographs is in response to a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit brought by the American Civil Liberties Union. “We know that many terrorists captured in Iraq have told American interrogators that one of the reasons they decided to join the violent jihadist war against America was what they saw on Al-Qaeda videos of abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib,” wrote Graham and Lieberman. “Releasing these old photographs of detainee treatment now will provide new fodder to Al-Qaeda’s propaganda and recruitment operations, undercut the progress you have made in our international relations, and endanger America’s military and diplomatic personnel throughout the world. “The release of these old photographs of past behavior that has now been clearly prohibited can serve no public good, but will empower al-Qaeda propaganda operations, hurt our country’s image, and endanger our men and women in uniform,” wrote Graham and Lieberman. Graham and Lieberman noted that the abusive practices at Abu Ghraib began Congressional involvement in detainee policy. Congress then passed the Detainee Treatment Act and the Military Commission Act. That legislation along with a series of executive actions, including some orders the Obama Administration has issued, are all aimed at preventing a repeat of this unacceptable behavior. “America’s soldiers, sailors, airmen, and marines have made great progress in improving detention and interrogation procedures,” said Graham and Lieberman. “We urge you in the strongest possible terms to fight the release of these old pictures of detainees in the war on terror, including pursuing all legal options to prevent the public disclosure of these pictures.” #####
05.05.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on remarks by House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey (D-Wisconsin) that he may not support funding for American operations in Afghanistan and Pakistan for more than one year. “It is disappointing and somewhat unbelievable the Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee would talk about putting a one-year deadline on funding for operations in Afghanistan and Pakistan. “Signaling to our enemies that funding may stop within a year if they can create enough chaos not only emboldens our enemies, it puts our own troops at increased risk. Our military commanders, service members and their families are under enough stress. “Al Qaeda and the Taliban are patient and resilient. They view their struggle with the United States as a test of wills. As Americans, our will to win must be greater than their will to defeat us. In Iraq we learned that if we provide the needed support to our forces they can accomplish great things. “Thus far, the Obama Administration has made reasoned and solid decisions regarding the situation on the ground in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq. It is vital to our long-term national interests that we finish the job in Iraq and regain lost momentum in Afghanistan. After our success in Iraq, Afghanistan is becoming the central battle in the war on terror. “I’m glad Chairman Obey did not have his way in Iraq. I hope President Obama will stand up to this kind of rhetoric and let our men and women in uniform, our allies, and just as important -- our enemies -- know we are in this to win.” ####
04.30.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made these statements after he voted against President Obama and the congressional Democrat’s $3.4 trillion budget plan. Graham is a member of the Senate Budget Committee. On Spending Levels: “President Obama has already spent $12 billion every day he has been in office. This budget is not good news for the American taxpayer. It transforms the country in a way I don’t think is helpful. We’re going to have a hard time looking the next generation in the eye and saying, ‘You’re going to have a chance to do better than us.’ This budget sustains massive deficits for years and explodes the national debt to 67 percent of GDP by 2014. We’re growing the size of government in a way future generations simply can’t afford.” On Taxation: “The Democratic budget raises taxes by $1 trillion on entrepreneurs and small business owners. This means less money for the people who start businesses and create jobs. The day we start rewarding the government and punishing people for the risk they take as entrepreneurs is the day the American model of free enterprise beings to dim.” On Protecting our Nation: “Whether the Democrats like it or not, we are the arsenal of democracy. Now is not the time to get cheap on defense and that is exactly what the Obama budget proposal does.” On Health Care: “Using reconciliation for something as critical as health care is a complete misuse of the budget process. It’s likely the Democrats plan to introduce a radical health care plan that will lose the support of many of their moderate Democrats and all the Senate Republicans. Surely the Obama Administration, if it truly believes in bipartisanship, will be able to find one Republican to get to 60 votes and not have to resort to reconciliation.” On the Future: “There is a better way. Let’s keep taxes competitive and as low as possible, realizing we’ve got a government to run. Let’s spend wisely. Let’s reform health care so the federal government doesn’t decide what doctor you see and what treatment you get. To my Democratic colleagues, you run this place now. The mistakes Republicans made are real, but you don’t fix those mistakes by spending more than we did. You don’t fix the problems facing the next generation by growing the government at a pace and level they can’t pay for. This lack of bipartisanship and business as usual spending is the complete opposite of what President Obama campaigned on. This is not the change anyone voted for and it’s certainly not change I can believe in.” ####
04.23.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), one of the strongest supporters of nuclear energy in the Senate, today introduced legislation S. 861, ‘Rebating America’s Deposits Act.’ Electric utilities have been paying into the Nuclear Waste Trust Fund to construct and operate a permanent federal nuclear waste repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada. The utilities have been charging their costumers a monthly fee in each electricity bill to make these payments. Through 2008, South Carolina residents alone have already contributed more than $1.2 billion to the fund, which has collected a total of more than $30 billion in fees. The legislation introduced by Graham would rebate these monies back to electric utilities and consumers. Seventy-five percent of the amount rebated to utilities would be returned to their customers and the remaining portion will be used to make upgrades to on-site storage facilities. Additionally, the legislation authorizes payments to states currently housing defense nuclear waste scheduled to be transferred to Yucca Mountain. These payments begin in 2017, the date in which Yucca Mountain was to set to receive shipments of defense nuclear waste. “No one should be required to pay for an empty hole in the Nevada desert,” said Graham. “The decision by the Obama Administration to close Yucca Mountain was ill-advised and leaves our nation without a disposal plan for spent nuclear fuel or Cold War waste. It was a political, not scientific, decision. It is incumbent on the Administration to come up with a disposal plan for this real problem facing our nation.” The major provisions of the Graham legislation include: Presidential Certification: The Department of Energy has spent billions of dollars and decades studying the suitability of Yucca Mountain as the nation’s repository for spent nuclear fuel and defense waste. Consistently, the science has borne out that Yucca Mountain is the best site to dispose of nuclear waste. Within 30 days of passage, the President must certify that Yucca Mountain remains the preferred choice to serve as the federal repository for spent nuclear fuel and defense-related nuclear waste. Failure to Certify Leads to Rebates: If the President fails to make the above certification, or revokes the certification at a later date, all funds currently in the Nuclear Waste Trust Fund shall be rebated back to the utilities. Seventy-five percent of the amount rebated to utilities would be returned to their customers and the remaining money will be used to make security and storage upgrades at existing nuclear power plants. Defense Waste: Currently, there is at least 12,800 metric tons of defense-related waste at nuclear weapons complex facilities around the country. Unlike commercial spent fuel, this waste has no potential future defense or civilian uses. In many states, the accumulated waste poses the largest potential public health threat. In order to help mitigate the risk associated with the indefinite storage of defense waste, the legislation authorizes payments of up to $100 million per year if defense waste has not begun to have left the states by 2017. Waste Confidence: In order to continue to renew or issue licenses for civilian nuclear power plants, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) must have reasonable confidence that the waste will be disposed of safely. The legislation includes waste confidence language that allows for the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to continue to license nuclear reactors in the event the Presidential certification is not made. “Our nation needs real options as a result of the uncertainty created by the Obama Administration’s change in policy,” said Graham. “I will push this legislation forward and hope to have a vote on it soon.” Co-sponsors of the legislation include Senators Richard Burr (R-North Carolina), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Susan Collins (R-Maine), Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), Mel Martinez (R-Florida), and John McCain (R-Arizona) #####
04.22.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON ­– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), John McCain (R-Arizona), and Joseph Lieberman (ID-Connecticut) today sent the following letter to President Obama strongly urging him not to prosecute government officials who provided legal advice related to detainee interrogations, and to move forward in a constructive fashion to address the significant challenges our country faces on the detainee issue: “We write with concern about proposals to prosecute previous administration officials for their legal analysis related to the CIA interrogation program. Pursuing such prosecutions would, we believe, have serious negative effects on the candor with which officials in any administration provide their best advice, and would take our country in a backward-looking direction at a time when our detainee-related challenges demand that we look forward. “We agree with your position that CIA interrogators, carrying out operations that had been deemed lawful by the Attorney General, should not be the subject of prosecution. Indeed, we addressed such a possibility in the 2005 Detainee Treatment Act, which holds that “good faith reliance on advice of counsel should be an important factor, among others,” when considering whether CIA interrogators had good reason to believe that their activities were legal. “We disagree, however, with Administration statements suggesting that the lawyers who provided such counsel may now be open to prosecution. Some of the legal analysis included in the OLC memos released last week was, we believe, deeply flawed. We have also strongly opposed the overly coercive interrogation techniques, including waterboarding, that these memos deemed legal. We do not believe, however, that legal analysis should be criminalized, as proposals to prosecute government lawyers suggest. Moving in such a direction would have a deeply chilling effect on the ability of lawyers in any administration to provide their client – the U.S. Government – with their best legal advice. Providing poor legal advice is always undesirable, and the Department of Justice is currently conducting an internal ethics review of the OLC memos, but that is a quite a different matter from making legal advice with which we may disagree into a crime. “Given the great challenges that face our country in dealing with detainees currently held at Guantanamo Bay, Bagram Airfield, and elsewhere, along with detainees that will undoubtedly fall into U.S. custody as the result of future operations, we have every interest in looking forward to solutions, not backward to recriminations. That is why we do not support the idea of a commission that would focus on the mistakes of the past. “As you have made clear, we are a nation at war. Appreciating that reality, we look forward to working with you on the panoply of detainee issues, ranging from interrogation standards to the disposition of detainee cases, which will engage our country going forward. In the interest of national security, it is the future, rather than the past, on which we believe America’s gaze must be fixed.” ###
04.21.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Chris Hill as U.S. Ambassador to Iraq. Graham voted against the nominee. “I believe our nation would have been better served appointing someone who has experience in the region, speaks the language and has experience dealing with the key players. Former Ambassador Ryan Crocker spent his career studying and working in the Arab world. He spoke the language, understood the history, and knew the culture. Our success in Iraq is due in large part to the close partnership of Ambassador Crocker and our military commanders. “I respect Chris Hill but I do not believe he is the best fit for this most important assignment.” #####
04.16.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the decision by the Obama Administration to not prosecute CIA officers who were authorized to use harsh interrogation techniques on terrorism suspects. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and Senate Armed Services Committee. “I support the Administration’s decision to look ahead, not back. President Obama’s decision to not seek retroactive prosecution of these agents, who were following approved procedures and guidelines, is in the best interests of our nation. “During the time periods in question, the Geneva Convention did not apply to terrorist detainees and the war crimes statute was so ill-designed that it could not be used for prosecution. Over the objections of the Bush administration, Congress began to address the gaps in our interrogation laws through the passage of the McCain Amendment in 2005 which prohibited cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment. The Military Commission Act in 2006 further clarified our war crimes laws. We now have in place a very robust war crimes statute that provides adequate notice to all federal agencies as to what constitutes lawful interrogation. “Water boarding is clearly a violation of current law and in my opinion, constitutes torture. However, during the time periods in question there was no such clear guidance and the agents were following orders and procedures approved by the appropriate authorities. As such, these agents should not face prosecution. “To apply current laws retroactively, or to hold CIA agents accountable for following orders from the appropriate authorities, would be unfair and serve no higher purpose. “Let it be clear that as our nation goes forward, we have new rules and policies in place. They clearly prohibit water boarding and other techniques that constitute a violation of Common Article III of the Geneva Convention which now applies as well as a newly passed war crimes statute. These changes in the law are necessary to restore our standing as a nation and to give clear and concise guidance to those who are tasked with fighting this war.” #####
04.02.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham’s (R-South Carolina) amendment to the Senate budget resolution protecting middle class taxpayers from legislation increasing the cost of energy passed the Senate today 65 – 33. “The climate change proposal in the President’s budget would create a massive tax increase on every American,” said Graham. “We can deal with climate change without imposing a $3,000 per household energy tax on the families of America that are already having a hard time paying the bills.” Graham noted the President’s climate plan disproportionately hurts the middle class by imposing heavy costs on manufacturers and businesses in states that rely on coal to provide electricity. The Graham amendment creates a budget point of order requiring 60 votes to pass any piece of legislation that would impose an energy tax on individuals making less than $200,000 per year or families making less than $250,000 by increasing the cost of producing, generating, or consuming energy. A vote on final passage of the budget is expected in the Senate late tonight. ####
04.02.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after U.S. District Court Judge John Bates this morning cleared the way for three detainees held at United States military prison at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan to challenge their confinement in federal court. The opinion bestowed upon the detainees the constitutional right of habeas corpus. Graham said: “This ruling is stunning in the precedent it sets for a nation at war. Never in our nation’s history has a court bestowed habeas rights on enemy combatants being held by our military in a foreign country where battles are still raging. Never. “These detainees have been given the due process required under the Geneva Conventions and international law and have been found to be combatants in the global War on Terror. The judge’s rationale that these individuals were not captured in Afghanistan so they are not part of the battle is both dangerous and naive. The judge obviously does not appreciate the global nature of this conflict; however, the enemy clearly does. Using this logic in World War II would not have allowed us to capture Nazi operatives anywhere but in Germany. “This decision allows federal judges to micromanage foreign battles and the detention of the fighters our troops have captured in battle. I cannot think of a more dangerous concept than a federal judge thousands of miles away in the U.S. being able to micromanage military decisions about fighting enemy forces in foreign lands. “We have thousands of brave young men and women who continue to volunteer their time, service, and lives in defense of our nation’s interests. We appreciate their service but I fear this decision will make the already difficult task they face even harder. As our troops continue to fight a vicious enemy in distant lands, the judge now sets in motion a process that will make the job of our forces even more difficult than it already is. “I strongly encourage the Obama Administration to come out firmly against this decision.” ######
04.01.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Peter Orszag provided clarification on how the federal government will provide funding to states from the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund. Graham had written to OMB on March 18 seeking clarification on whether the state legislature could request the $700 million in education funding if the governor refused to do so. He also raised 10th Amendment constitutional concerns regarding the legal authority to bypass the governor of a state. In their response, OMB made clear the governor – not the state legislature -- has the sole authority to submit an application for State Fiscal Stabilization funding: “…for a State to access its allocation of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund, the Governor must submit an application to the Secretary of Education, and there currently is no provision in the Recovery Act for a State legislature to make such an application in lieu of the Governor for a State’s allocation of the State Fiscal Stabilization Fund.” Graham said: “OMB’s opinion is in line with what I believe to be the correct interpretation of the law. I appreciate their response as it will provide clarity and guidance to the state legislature and governor as they continue working on the state budget. “I voted against the stimulus package because it was too large, unfocused, created too much debt and too few jobs. However, the choice for South Carolina now is whether to accept the stabilization funding or see the money go to another state. “We can refuse to accept it, but we cannot refuse to pay it back. Based on that dilemma, I believe it is in South Carolina’s best interests to apply for these funds. They will do some good. “The letter did not address my constitutional concerns which I think are real and will not be fixed by a mere change in the statute. Regardless of one’s opinion about the provision’s constitutionality, the Congress will not be able to fix this problem by Friday and allow the state legislature to apply for the funding. Also, it is unlikely other states would want to pass a legislative fix that would assist South Carolina. By doing nothing, other states increase the chances they will receive a portion of the funding originally directed to our state. “The Governor has legitimate concerns about our state’s long-term debt and the burden we are passing along to future generations. The legislature has equally legitimate concerns about the impact the deep recession is having on our state, which is second in the nation in unemployment, and how further budget cuts will affect education. “Time is of the essence and I am hopeful the governor and legislature can find a compromise which addresses the needs of both current and future generations of South Carolinians. It is my hope a win-win solution which addresses our state’s needs today while building a solid foundation for future generations can be achieved.” ##### Click here for a copy of OMB Director Peter Orszag's letter.
03.27.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-147 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan planning to reprogram education funding from the stimulus legislation even if the Governor and state legislature do not request the funds. Graham said: "I was shocked by the statements made by the Secretary of Education that he would find a way to spend the $700 million in South Carolina regardless of the requirements of the statute or whether the state requested the funding. "I appreciate and share his concern for the children of South Carolina. However, federal officials cannot obligate money based on a perceived moral obligation. We are a nation of laws, not individual whims. I cannot think of a more dangerous precedent to be set than allowing an unelected Cabinet Secretary, a federal bureaucrat, to hand out government funds based upon their feelings and not the law. "The Secretary’s pushing forward with this radical line of thinking would destroy the concept of the Rule of Law, the role of elected officials, and the principles of federalism which have served our nation well for over 200 years. I encourage the Obama Administration to immediately reject this approach. I hope these comments will be written off as just mindless chatter and not a radical new approach to the role and power of the federal government. "I voted against the stimulus package because it was too large and created too much government. However, I do believe it is in South Carolina’s best interests for the Governor to accept the funding as it will do some good. If South Carolina does not accept the funding, it will go to another state and future generations of South Carolinian will still be obligated to pay it back. "Additionally, in light of today’s unemployment figures and recent budget projections it will be very difficult for the General Assembly to meet all our state’s obligations. This is clearly a rainy day for South Carolina and these funds can be helpful in our current budget situation. "Finally, the legal process through which these funds are administered is very important. The process and procedures used will be around long after these funds are spent." ######
03.26.2009	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after voting against the Senate Democratic budget proposal. The proposal was passed through the Senate Budget Committee yesterday by a vote of 13-10. "Former President Bush and the Republican Congress were rightfully criticized for spending too much. But compared to this budget, George Bush looks like Scrooge. "The Senate Democratic budget, which by OMB Director Peter Orszag’s own estimate is 98 percent identical to President Obama’s proposal, missed the mark. It is irresponsible. The Democratic budget imposes $80,000 of debt on every American family by 2011. It raises taxes at a time when we are trying to get our economy back on track. And we increase social spending exponentially and decrease military spending at a time when the world is more dangerous, not less. "The Republican Party did not live up to expectations when it came to spending taxpayer dollars. Americans were rightfully disappointed in our actions. But yesterday we witnessed the Democratic budget taking our national debt to new, unsustainable levels. "The Democratic budget proposal makes it virtually impossible for future generations to enjoy the same standard of living as their parents and grandparents. The American people want change but I fear the Senate Democratic and President Obama budget is change our nation simply cannot afford." ####
03.24.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), who serves on the Senate Budget Committee and Senate Armed Services Committee, criticized President Obama’s proposed budget and its affect on national security. On Friday, Graham expressed concern about the Obama budget after a Congressional Budge Office analysis of the legislation showed it creating trillion dollar yearly deficits. “I think the first job of any federal politician, particularly the President as Commander in Chief, is to secure the nation, “said Graham. “This is not the time to go cheap on defense. The intelligence reports we receive show a growing threat from Iran, new engagements in Afghanistan; and a mission in Iraq that is not yet complete. There is no peace dividend to be had until there is peace. Graham noted that over the last 20 years the average spending on national defense, as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has been about 4 percent. When the supplemental spending bills covering operations in Iraq and Afghanistan are added it goes to about 4.5 percent this year. The Obama budget proposes a reduction in defense spending so that by 2019 our nation only spends 3 percent of GDP on defense. “When you try to figure out where a political leader really stands -- rhetoric versus reality -- one of the documents I would look at is the budget,” said Graham. “If you asked a politician to write a budget, it would tell you a lot about what that political leader thought about where the country was and what priorities they would pursue. Unfortunately, in the Obama budget, I think they've taken a very reckless view of national defense.” “The interest on the national debt in 2019 will be $806 billion,” said Graham. “Spending on national defense will be $720 billion. Ten years from now, under this budget, we're going to spend more on interest on our national debt than we will be on our entire Defense Department. “I hope the American people will understand that in this guns and butter debate that we've had for a long time in this country, that this budget is really heavy on butter and short on guns,” concluded Graham. #####
03.20.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Budget Committee, today made this statement on the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis of President Obama’s budget proposal. "The Obama Administration has embarked on a spending spree that will add tremendously to our long-term national debt. We began this presidency deep in debt and the budget course charted by the Obama Administration substantially adds to it. No amount of economic growth will be able to overcome the spending spree President Obama proposes. "Economic and budgetary projections over a ten year period are always difficult. However, based upon the spending path we find ourselves on, it is not difficult to figure out where we will end up. The CBO report makes clear we are facing $1 trillion annual deficits as far as the eye can see. This is a staggering and unsustainable amount of debt to pass along. "In its budget submission to Congress, the Obama Administration used optimistic economic projections. These projections were more politically than economically driven. The Obama Administration underestimated the unemployment problems our nation currently faces and overestimated how quickly the economy is likely to grow. The CBO analysis is more in line with reality. "The American people want change but I fear President Obama’s budget proposes change our nation simply cannot afford." #####
03.18.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON –U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today held a press conference to discuss South Carolina’s portion of the economic stimulus funds and a new analysis from the Congressional Research Service on the authority of the state legislature to request such funds. Click here for a copy of the CRS report. Click here for a copy of Senator Graham's letter to the OMB Director. ####
03.16.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to AIG paying bonuses to employees in its Financial Products (AIGFP) division. AIGFP was responsible for billions of dollars in losses involving credit default swaps and other derivatives. “Like most Americans I am very upset these AIG employees are in line for multi-million dollar bonuses when the company has received almost $200 billion dollars in bailout money and the federal government now owns 80 percent of the company. "This is a classic example of a company not understanding the public outcry against their way of doing business. “We should do everything we can to protect taxpayer dollars – and start by looking at the possibility of undoing these bonuses which clearly have not been earned and are certainly not deserved." ####
03.12.2009	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (8640 250-14127 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today made the following statement on the nomination of Assistant Secretary Christopher Hill: "We have real concerns with the President’s decision to nominate Assistant Secretary Christopher Hill as the next U.S. Ambassador to Iraq," said Senators Graham and McCain. "While Mr. Hill is a talented diplomat who has served our country for many years, his selection for this post concerns us. "The U.S. Embassy in Baghdad is the world’s largest, and our next ambassador will take the helm at a particularly critical time in our efforts in Iraq," Graham and McCain continued. "The next ambassador should have experience in the Middle East and in working closely with the U.S. military in counterinsurgency or counterterrorism operations. Mr. Hill has neither. Given these considerations, together with the controversial legacy Mr. Hill left in his North Korea diplomacy, we believe that the President should reconsider this nomination." ###
03.09.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement opposing President Obama’s Executive Order allowing federal funding of stem cell research. Graham said: “I understand and appreciate the seriousness of the embryonic stem cell debate and how people of good will and motives may disagree. But I do not believe it is acceptable to use taxpayer dollars to condone the destruction of viable human embryos, the early stage of all human life, for research purposes. I have serious reservations about the decision made by President Obama today. There are other promising alternatives available which involve adult stem cells and the ability to transform them so they have the properties of embryonic cells. I support those research efforts.” ####
02.27.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on President Obama’s Iraq withdrawal plan. Graham said: “The implementation of the withdrawal plan announced by the President and supported by our combat commanders still has risk associated with it but overall seems sound. The ability to slow down troop withdrawals, if necessary, and leaving a strong contingent force of trainers and terrorist fighters will help ensure continued stability in Iraq. “While the war in Iraq has not yet ended, all Americans should celebrate our ability to withdraw troops from Iraq with honor and after having achieved our objectives. Every American should enthusiastically greet the last combat soldier with a hearty well done and deep appreciation for having been successful. “The President’s announcement was made possible only because of the change in strategy, called the surge, which was highly unpopular and received virtually no Democratic support. The need for the surge was based on the realization that the old strategy was failing and that we could not afford to lose in Iraq. To have done so would have empowered al Qaeda, led to a more influential Iran, and made it virtually impossible to convince moderate Muslims to side with us in the War on Terror. Now we are on the verge of realizing the significant benefits of success – a stable, functioning government in Iraq where the people rejected al Qaeda, and are embracing representative government. These events are long overdue changes in the heart of the Middle East. The new Iraq will buffer Iranian ambitions and, over time, become an important ally in the greater War on Terror. “The country should be ever mindful that mistakes will be made in all wars but there is no substitute for resolve. I am proud of the resolve the troops and their civilian counterparts continue to show in Iraq. I’m equally proud of the Iraqi people as they have rejected terrorism and continue to fight bravely for their own freedom. “Much still lies ahead in Iraq regarding political reconciliation, providing better governance, and strengthening the Iraqi army and police forces. The residual U.S. force will be necessary to continue to assist in these areas. “However, let there be no doubt that the American military and their civilian counterparts and coalition forces are coming home having delivered a decisive blow against al Qaeda and with the knowledge that the new Iraq, based on democratic, representative government, has changed the politics of the Middle East and has made the world a more secure and hopeful place.” #####
02.24.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on President Obama’s address to the nation. “President Obama is right when he says he has inherited very difficult challenges – two wars and an ailing economy. I will do all I can to help him secure the peace and bring about economic recovery. “I know there will be times when we disagree, like we did on the stimulus package. I thought it was too big and unfocused. It created more government than it did jobs. “I hope we can find common ground on housing and helping our banks survive without throwing good money after bad. I will do everything I can to meet the President in the middle and I hope he will respond in kind.” #####
02.13.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on the stimulus package the Senate will vote on later today. “The stimulus package creates more government than jobs. The original goal was to work together to create jobs and stimulate our economy. It’s clear we have failed miserably in that endeavor.” Lack of Bipartisanship: “There was never a real effort to find common ground. We’re spending $1.1 trillion over the next ten years and we never had a thoughtful discussion to figure out how we could come together on something with bipartisan support. The idea that this is bipartisanship does not meet any realistic test of bipartisanship. Lack of Job Creation Provisions: “About seventy percent of the jobs in our nation are created by small business. If our goal was to crate jobs and stimulate the economy, one of the tests should be how much did we do for small business? Not much. Less than $3 billion in the entire package is directed to small business. It’s one of the areas of the bill where the focus missed the target by a country mile. Untimely Spending to Create Jobs and Stimulate the Economy: “There are so many things in the package completely unrelated to creating a job in the next 18 months. Only 11 percent of the appropriated spending will be spent in the first year. In fact, over half of the money will not be spent until two years from now. We waste money in this bill that could have gone to shoring up the financial sector and fixing our housing problems.” #####
02.04.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said an alternative proposal he has worked on with Senate colleagues would do more to stimulate the economy than the more than $1 trillion legislation proposed by Senate Democrats. “The American people are rightfully upset with the stimulus package that passed the House of Representatives,” said Graham. “The bill in the Senate is almost as bad. The current plan spends too much and contains too little stimulus to help the economy. “The alternative proposal I support spends less but does more,” said Graham. “It’s a mixture of tax cuts, incentives for the purchase of a home, funding for shovel-ready infrastructure improvements, relief for homeowners facing foreclosure, and assistance to those who have lost their jobs. We address the root cause of our current problems – the crisis in the housing market – by supporting home buyers and incentivizing mortgage loan modification.” The major provisions of the legislation backed by Graham include: Tax Provisions: Eliminating half of the employee share of payroll taxes (3.1%) for 1 year Lowering the 15 percent tax bracket to 10 percent and the 10 percent bracket to 5 percent. Lowering the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 25 percent for 1 year Assisting Americans in Need: Extension of unemployment benefits and food stamps through the end of 2009 Making unemployment benefits tax free through the end of 2009 Training and employment services for dislocated workers Fix the Housing Crisis: A $15,000 tax credit for the purchase of a home. Loan modification incentives to keep people in their homes. Investing in Infrastructure: $45 billion in shovel-ready infrastructure projects to rebuild our nation. $17 billion to improve and modernize barracks, facilities, and equipment for our troops in uniform. Graham also noted the inclusion of a ‘spending trigger’ which would prevent any leftover funds from being spent when we achieve two consecutive quarters of positive GDP growth. “I am ready and willing to work with my colleagues on a stimulus plan which helps grow our economy,” said Graham. “Thus far there have been limited bipartisan efforts to find areas of agreement. The House bill passed with no Republican support and eleven Democrats voted against it. This is not the bipartisanship I had hope for or been promised to the American people. “I stand ready to work with President Obama and my colleagues to create an economic stimulus package that is economically sound, timely and jump starts the economy,” said Graham. “The plan currently under debate in the Senate does not accomplish any of these objectives.” ######
02.02.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on his vote in support of Eric Holder to serve as U.S. Attorney General. “Mr. Holder understands the threat to our nation posed by terrorism. In the Judiciary Committee’s hearing on the nomination, Mr. Holder agreed with me the United States is undoubtedly at war with a vicious and shadowy enemy, and that the war began before the attacks of September 11, 2001. “Mr. Holder agreed with me as well that the battlefield in the War on Terror is the entire globe. It is not limited to the combat zones of Afghanistan and Iraq, but also includes the financial system, through which terrorist networks are funded; and the internet, through which terrorists communicate and spread their message of violence and hatred. Indeed, the tragic events of 9/11 proved that the battlefield even extends within our nation’s own borders. The question of how best to win the War on Terror is the most profound issue facing the next Attorney General. Mr. Holder understands the nature of this enemy and this conflict. “There are some who argue that Mr. Holder’s previous mistakes should bar him from serving as Attorney General. In expressing my support for Mr. Holder, I do not mean to minimize those misjudgments. Indeed, Mr. Holder faces his past mistakes fully — admitting them, learning from them, and promising to exercise better judgment in the future. While I understand concern with Mr. Holder’s past errors, it would be a mistake in its own right to reject on that basis this qualified nominee who comprehends the challenge our nation faces in defeating terrorism. “I look forward to working with President Obama and Mr. Holder to fashion a system of detention for the War on Terror involving all three branches of government and of which all Americans can be proud. Mr. Holder and I agree that in order to maintain the critical moral high ground in this war, we must treat detainees fairly, with more process than they would necessarily provide us. We also agree that we must not release dangerous warriors back to the fight against our nation. Criminalizing this war would be a terrible mistake, and Mr. Holder understands that. “Four years ago, President Obama, then Senator Obama, stated on the floor of the Senate that the test of a nominee for Attorney General is, “whether that person is ready to put the Constitution of the people before the political agenda of the President.” Eric Holder meets that test and for that reason I will support his nomination.” #####
01.27.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news the South Carolina unemployment rate for December has risen to 9.5 percent. “These are not just numbers on a piece of paper. These are real people – our friends, neighbors, family members who are suffering in these difficult economic times. We see the signs of the economic slowdown in our towns and communities as businesses both big and small, lay off workers or simply shut their doors. “The current recession is as painful as any we have faced in decades. Our economy, both in South Carolina and across the nation, continues to shed jobs at an alarming pace. In December another 22,000 South Carolinians lost their jobs and for the first time in our state’s history more than 200,000 people are now out of work. “Just yesterday, over 65,000 jobs cuts were announced by some of the most respected and well-known companies in our country. It seems hardly a day goes by when some company does not announce additional layoffs and I fear the end is not yet in sight. “So where do we go from here? I don’t believe Congress and the President can solve all of our economic problems nor should we try. But I do believe we can get the ball moving in the right direction with the passage of a responsible stimulus package that contains the appropriate mix of tax cuts and spending on infrastructure projects. If the tax cuts or spending do not create jobs in the near term, they should not be in the stimulus package. “South Carolinians expect their elected officials to stand up and address the most difficult issues facing our nation. Today, none are more pressing than the current economic situation. “I have made it clear I am ready to work in a bipartisan fashion to get our economy moving again. I will continue to speak with and work with Obama Administration and my Senate colleagues on an economic stimulus package that creates jobs and puts people back to work. South Carolinians expect and deserve nothing less.” #####
01.22.2009	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and John McCain (R-Arizona) today issued the following statement regarding the executive order put forth by President Obama calling for the closure of the prison at Guantanamo: “We support President Obama’s decision to close the prison at Guantanamo, reaffirm America’s adherence to the Geneva Conventions, and begin a process that will, we hope, lead to the resolution of all cases of Guantanamo detainees,” said Senator Lindsey Graham and Senator John McCain. “The executive orders issued today constitute an important step in the right direction but leave several major issues unaddressed.” “Numerous difficult issues remain,” Senator Graham and Senator McCain continued. “Present at Guantanamo are a number of detainees who have been cleared for release but have found no foreign country willing to accept them. Other detainees have been deemed too dangerous for release, but the sensitive nature of the evidence makes prosecution difficult. The military’s proper role in processing detainees held on the battlefield at Bagram, Afghanistan, and other military prisons around the world must be defended, but that is left unresolved. Also unresolved is the type of judicial process that would replace the military commissions. We believe the military commissions should have been allowed to continue their work. We look forward to working with the President and his administration on these issues, keeping in mind that the first priority of the U.S. government is to guarantee the security of the American people.” ####
12.19.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Bush’s plan to offer $17.4 billion to General Motors and Chrysler. Graham said: “I’m disappointed with President Bush’s decision in many respects. “I do not believe it’s appropriate to use the TARP (Troubled Asset Recovery Program) funds to bail out the automotive companies. These funds were supposed to be used to stabilize financial institutions. The TARP legislation would certainly not have passed it we had known it was going to be used for this purpose. “The plan announced by the President today will not lead to the necessary reforms which will make these companies profitable. The only viable solution is for them to enter Chapter 11 reorganization. “There the companies would be able to renegotiate their labor and health costs to make them competitive in the global marketplace. It would also allow the reorganization to be accomplished without political considerations. Presidential or congressional restructuring will end up being a political exercise more so than a business exercise to make these companies profitable. “If we continue down this road, I expect this will be the first of many government payments to the Big 3 automotive companies.” ####
12.11.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the auto bailout plan that passed by the House of Representatives yesterday. The plan is scheduled to come before the Senate in the next few days. Graham said: “I oppose the current auto bailout plan. “Simply put, the model Detroit has created will not sustain itself in the global economy. They need to make significant, structural changes before they receive federal assistance and those changes should be made in the private sector. “No one wants to see these companies fail and workers displaced. I feel for the car dealers and their employees who are being hurt by years of bad decisions made by the leadership of the Big 3. But I also realize that unless major, fundamental changes are made in the way the Big 3 operate, they will likely find themselves right back in the same situation. “I will continue to be open to proposals which help return the auto companies to profitable enterprises and protect the taxpayer. The current plan does not meet those standards.” #####
11.17.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after meeting with President-elect Barack Obama. “We had a productive discussion with President-elect Obama and I appreciate the opportunity to meet with him. I believe there will be opportunities to find common ground on the many difficult issues facing our nation. Everyone at the meeting was committed to reducing government waste, reducing bitter partisanship, and reforming our government to make it work better for the American people. “Where possible, the American people want us to work in a bipartisan fashion to address their problems. I think today’s meeting was a positive step forward.” #####
11.17.2008	Due to the limited number of tickets allocated to each office, requests to Senator Graham’s office have exceeded his allotment and Senator Graham is not able to take ticket requests at this time. There will be a public viewing area on the National Mall for those constituents who wish to attend but were unable to obtain tickets to the inaugural ceremony. For more information about Inauguration Day, please visit the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies website.
11.06.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the news Illinois Congressman Rahm Emanuel has accepted the job as White House Chief of Staff. Graham spoke by phone with Emanuel earlier today. Graham said: “This is a wise choice by President-elect Obama. “Rahm knows Capitol Hill and has great political skills. He can be a tough partisan but also understands the need to work together. He is well-suited for the position of White House Chief of Staff. “I worked closely with him during the presidential debate negotiations which were completed in record time. When we hit a rough spot, he always looked for a path forward. I consider Rahm to be a friend and colleague. He’s tough but fair. Honest, direct, and candid. These qualities will serve President-elect Obama well. “Rahm understands the challenges facing our nation and will, consistent with the agenda set by President-elect Obama, work to find common ground where it exists. I look forward to working with him in his new position and will continue to do everything I can to help find a pathway forward on the difficult problems facing our nation.” #####
10.08.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been recognized as a True Blue member of the Senate for his unwavering commitment to the family. The award was presented by FRC Action, the legislative arm of the Family Research Council, and Focus on the Family Action. The award honors member of the House and Senate who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom. The scorecard covers Senate votes during the two-year 110th Congress. Recipients of the award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. The votes included efforts to: Defend grassroots organizations rights to influence public policy Provide health care for unborn children Confirm Judge Leslie Southwick to the U.S. Court of Appeals Oppose Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oppose Funding for International Coercive Abortion and Sterilization Programs Oppose Federal Thought Crimes Bill Prevent Abortion Funding in Indian Health Services “The Members of the 110th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families,” said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “These Members are to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.” “I applaud these Members for defending pro-family and pro-life policies that have been under attack this past year,” said Perkins. “Values voters should be encouraged by these Members who have shown a commitment to protecting and strengthening the family.” To order a copy of the Vote Scorecard, visit FRC Action’s website at http://www.frcaction.org. ####
10.07.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) responded to news that U.S. District Court Judge Ricardo M. Urbina today ordered 17 Chinese Muslims being held at Guantanamo Bay military prison to be released into the United States. The detainees may be released as early as this Friday, October 10. Graham noted in 2001 most of the Chinese Uighurs (Wee-gurs) were in Taliban terrorist camps in Afghanistan. They have been detained at Guantanamo Bay since 2002. “The court’s decision is unprecedented,” said Graham. “I believe the judge’s decision to release these individuals into the United States sets a dangerous precedent in the War on Terror. Our nation needs clear policies dealing with detainees who are ordered to be released. Simply opening the courthouse door and letting them roam free on the streets of our nation is not sound policy.” Graham, along with U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman (ID-Connecticut) has introduced legislation, the Enemy Combatant Detention Review Act, which addresses situations such as these. The legislation prohibits the release of detainees into the United States. Detainees ordered released by federal judges would be transferred to the custody of Department of Homeland Security and be housed separately while the State Department secured release into their home country or other appropriate location in accordance with U.S. law prohibiting the return of individuals to a country where they may be mistreated. “I understand some detainees will not be able to be repatriated to their native countries for fear of reprisal,” said Graham. “Some nations will choose not to accept their citizens. But the last thing our own nation needs is the unconditional release of former enemy combatants into American communities. It is not a good situation for our citizens or the detainee who may be at risk. Congress needs to address this problem as soon as possible.” #####
10.05.2008	Congress faced an unpleasant but necessary choice of approving the financial rescue plan. We did not have the luxury of kicking the can down the road like we’ve done with Social Security and entitlements. We could not hope somebody braver than us would come along and have courage that we could not muster. This was on our watch and time was of the essence. The conservative Heritage Foundation said it was, “only a matter of time” before the fallout hit Main Street “with potentially devastating economic effects for typical American households.” I agreed with their analysis but they were not saying anything people in South Carolina didn’t already know. The credit crisis gripping our nation was already having a negative impact on Main Street. I heard from the retirement communities where retirees rely on dwindling 401(k)’s and the plumber who is worried he can’t get a short-term loan to make payroll. I heard from the restaurant owner who wants to expand and the college student and parents who were worried college loans were drying up. And I heard from the homeowner who fears for her job and the auto dealer who is about to close because customers cannot get credit. A primary motive was to act and ensure credit was available at reasonable rates and near-collapses leading to fire-sale prices like Wachovia did not spread throughout the nation. Banks and lending institutions -- the financial engines of our economy -- are at tremendous risk. For the common good, we had to find a solution to this problem before more people lost their homes, businesses shut their doors, college dreams were dashed, and additional jobs were lost. Simply put, my support for the financial rescue plan was about helping the people I grew up with and the people I represent – not Wall Street. Major Revisions in the Law The bill that passed the Senate had dramatically changed since it was first introduced. One common misconception is the plan will cost taxpayers $700 billion. Over time and as the economy improves, the taxpayer will recoup money from the sale of troubled assets. Warren Buffett, one of the most respected business leaders in our nation’s history, even thinks that after all is said and done taxpayers will actually make money. Buffett said, “If we could do the deal that is available to the United States government and have its staying power, and its borrowing costs, we would make significant money. … I would love to have 1 percent of the profit or loss that results from buying these assets from troubled financial institutions.” Either way, the costs to the taxpayer will be less than $700 billion and significantly less than the costs of a deep, severe, long-lasting recession. A major improvement was an increase from $100,000 to $250,000 in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance on bank accounts and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) revision of ‘mark to market’ accounting practices. Another important change was that all funds collected will go toward retirement of our national debt – not shady groups like ACORN pushing a far left political agenda. The legislation also contains important safeguards such as an oversight board to review the governments acquisition of troubled assets, limits on executive compensation packages and a prohibition on ‘golden parachutes’ for failed executives. A ‘clawback’ provision allows the government to recover bonuses and incentive compensation paid to a senior executives based on materially inaccurate information. Financial Rescue One Piece of the Puzzle Unfortunately, we have many difficult days ahead as our economy tries to regain its footing. Just last week jobless claims reached a seven year high and August factory orders fell by the largest amount in two years. It’s a clear sign that the manufacturing sector – which is a major driver of our state’s economy – is already feeling the effects of the credit crunch. This package won’t solve all of our problems, but without it the American taxpayer faces even greater exposure. Where From Here? I remain committed to making sure the root cause of the problem -- mortgages being given to people who never should have had them -- does not happen again. It is obvious lending standards and procedures were compromised. I support the FBI and federal agencies looking into Wall Street firms, mortgage lenders Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and other financial institutions at the core of this disaster. We must find out what happened and hold the appropriate people and companies responsible. As we learn more about how the house of cards was constructed and eventually came tumbling down, we must put better regulations and oversight in place. Failure to act only lays the groundwork for similar disasters in the future. The financial rescue plan will prove to be the first step – not the last – in cleaning up our financial mess. #####
10.03.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the financial rescue plan. The legislation will now be sent to President Bush for his signature. He said: “The South Carolina House delegation spoke with one voice and represented the needs of Main Street. If Congress had failed to act, it would have had a negative impact on every day working people and small business in our state. “Unity on a matter this controversial is hard to find and it’s unusual to see all six members on the same page. I believe the overwhelming vote shows the seriousness of the problem. We are hearing from every corner of the state about the drying up of credit and the real, negative economic impact this is having on Main Street. “None of us wanted to be in this situation but we are doing what South Carolinians expect of us and rising to meet the serious economic challenge facing our nation. “The legislation is not perfect, but it does provide a workable solution to help prevent what would have been the imminent financial collapse of banks and lending institutions. For the common good, we found a solution to this problem before more people lost their homes, businesses shut their doors, college dreams were dashed, and additional jobs were lost. “Our nation’s economy still faces troubled waters ahead and a full economic recovery remains a ways off. This plan will provide tools to help navigate the economic troubles that lie ahead.” #####
10.01.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he would vote in support of the rescue plan scheduled to come for a vote in the Senate today. “We face an unpleasant but necessary choice,” said Graham. “The crisis is real and is beginning to have a real, negative impact on Main Street America. I am optimistic the Senate will act decisively. “Over the past few days, I have heard from all corners of our state the dire consequences of congressional inaction,” said Graham. “Businesses – both big and small -- are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain loans to meet operating expenses and fund expansions. Some of the oldest businesses in America stand on the brink and people will lose their jobs. Time is of the essence. We must act.” Graham noted the legislation has dramatically changed since it was first introduced. Over time and as the economy improves, the taxpayer will recoup money and collected funds will be go toward debt retirement -- not shady groups like ACORN. It now includes important safeguards such as an oversight board to review the governments acquisitions of troubled assets, limits on executive compensation packages and a prohibition on ‘golden parachutes’ for failed executives at troubled firms. A ‘clawback’ provision -- which allows the government to recover any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on materially inaccurate information -- is also included. The legislation increases from $100,000 to $250,000 in Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance on bank accounts and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has issued a revision of ‘mark to market’ accounting practices. These provisions taken together will increase consumer confidence, strengthen the legislation, and help bring additional Senators on board. “The rescue package now contains strong protections for the taxpayers,” said Graham. “It was crafted to ensure that any purchases or loans by the government will be backed up by hard assets. Taxpayers also will not subsidize multi-million dollar buyouts for CEO’s and other top managers who created this problem. “My primary concern has always been that with the failure of lending institutions credit would dry up,” said Graham. “When that happens, reasonable rate loans to consumers and businesses become scarce. It takes a toll as South Carolinians increasingly find it harder to get a loan for a new car, expand a business, or attend college on student loans. “Unfortunately, we have many difficult days ahead as our economy tries to regain its footing,” said Graham. “This package will not solve all of our economic problems. But without it, the American taxpayer will face even greater exposure. “I remain committed to making sure the root cause of the problem -- mortgages being given to people who never should have had them -- does not happen again,” said Graham. “This is the first step – not the last – in cleaning up this financial mess. We must also put stronger regulations and oversight in place to bring transparency to the markets. I fear our failure to act in these areas will only lay the groundwork for similar disasters in the future.” ####
09.30.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and other Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee sent a letter to Attorney General Michael Mukasey last week urging him to ensure a fair election process. The Senators noted a recent report that several attorneys in the Civil Rights Division may have been influenced by partisan political motivation when targeting fully legal political activities. The Senators went on to express concern that at a symposium on elections, these same attorneys cited numerous examples of intimidation or suppression by Republicans, but failed to offer even one example of similar practices by Democrats. “This omission is remarkable given the multiple claims of voter intimidation and vote suppression that supporters of Senator Obama and Clinton made against each other during this year’s Democratic primary,” wrote the Senators. The Senators also expressed concern about the ability of the Department of Justice to adequately protect poll watchers and poll monitors from intimidation at polling places: “…it is vital that the Department both ensure access to voting and that legitimate votes are not diluted by illegal votes. Poll watchers and monitors do both; they not only watch the polls to protect against discrimination and undue influence, they help to deter and detect voter fraud and other illegal conduct. Unfortunately, we have seen an ever increasing level of hostility and intimidation directed at these important players in the election process.” Graham was joined on the letter by Senators Arlen Specter (R-Pennsylvania), Orin Hatch (R-Utah), John Cornyn (R-Texas), Jon Kyl (R-Arizona), Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), Sam Brownback (R-Kansas), and Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma). #### NOTE: View Attorney General Muskasey's response to Senator Graham here.
09.29.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop ( WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the vote in the U.S. House of Representatives against the financial rescue plan. He said: “I have never been more disappointed in the Congress than I am today. I hope every member of the House of Representatives -- Republican and Democrat -- who voted against this legislation will work in the next twenty-four hours to improve the bill. Now is the time to put the national interest above the self interest. “Speaker Pelosi’s partisan comments before the vote obviously did not help matters. Now is not the time for extreme partisanship but time for our nation to pull together for the common good. “If we do not address this issue, our nation may be headed toward a major financial collapse. For the common good, we must find a solution to this problem. Without the ability to borrow money to build a business, buy a home, or go to school, our country will be brought to its financial knees. “Today’s actions will ripple throughout our economy. More people will lose their homes. Businesses may be forced to shut their doors. Life savings and retirement accounts will take a severe hit. I fear those who voted against this legislation have put our nation’s economy at risk. "Democratic and Republican leaders must find a way to bring more votes on board to this bipartisan bill. I will continue to do my part in this effort as I realize the cost of congressional inaction will be steep.” #####
09.22.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Wall Street rescue plan proposed by Secretary Paulson and congressional efforts to place limits on executive compensation. On the Proposal from Secretary Paulson: “I respect Secretary Paulson, but no individual should have this much ‘blank check’ authority. The oversight and accountability provisions in the initial proposal were limited and must be strengthened. “It is imperative Congress work quickly and cooperatively with the Administration to address our financial problems before they get worse. “I realize any proposal will not contain all provisions I like or support. I do hope however we give further consideration to the creation of an independent board made up of Republicans, Democrats, and Independents who would have oversight over any government’s expenditures on a rescue plan. There is merit in this approach and I hope it would be an essential ingredient in any bailout plan. We need to bring the best minds in our nation together to help solve a very difficult problem. “Now is the time to focus on solutions, not empty rhetoric.” On Limits on Executive Compensation for Participating Firms: “Taxpayers should not subsidize multi-million dollar buyouts for CEO’s and other top managers who created this problem. If a company participates in a proposed government rescue plan, there should be limits on the executive’s compensation. They should not be rewarded for their massive failures. The last thing we need is an executive of a failed firm walking away with millions.” #####
09.19.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after hearing from President Bush and Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson on the state of the United States financial system. He said: “We must get to the heart of the problem and that is the effect bad mortgage loans are having on our economy. If not addressed, this problem will have an increasingly negative impact on the ability of average Americans to borrow money to buy a home, build a business, or go to college. If we do not use sound judgment, I fear many American’s who have worked hard all their lives and invested in their future, will be placed at additional financial risk. “This current financial crisis started with the subprime mortgage sector where individuals were allowed to borrow funds and buy homes they could not afford. It was a house of cards that has led to severe consequences for other sectors of the financial markets. The practice has since come back to haunt our nation. “Getting bad debt out our financial system may be the only way to recapitalize our nation and prevent an institutional collapse that would jeopardize the financial future of all Americans. I know the price to fix this problem is enormous. However, at the end of the day, it may be less than the price of doing nothing and risking a complete financial meltdown. “I look forward to studying the proposal Secretary Paulson will submit to Congress in the coming days and asking tough questions to ensure taxpayers are protected to the maximum extent possible. “I believe it is in our national interest for Congress to act sooner rather than later. This is not the time for partisan politics or the blame game. We must get this right. “Looking forward, Secretary Paulson’s proposal will be the first step -- not the last -- in cleaning up this financial mess. We must also put stronger regulations and oversight in place to bring transparency to the markets. I fear our failure to act in these areas will only lay the groundwork for similar disasters in the future.” ######
09.15.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced that due to agricultural losses caused by drought and excessive heat, the U.S. Department of Agriculture has declared 44 of the 46 counties in South Carolina as primary disaster areas. Beaufort and Charleston counties have been designated contiguous disaster areas. “This is welcome news for South Carolina’s farmers,” said Graham. “The drought and heat have made 2008 a difficult year. I’m pleased to see relief is on the way.” These designations make farm operators in both primary and contiguous counties eligible to be considered for low-interest emergency loans from the Farm Services Administration (FSA). Local FSA offices can provide farmers with more information. ####
09.11.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after attending the 9/11 Remembrance Ceremony in Shanksville, Pennsylvania. Later today, Graham will travel to New York City to visit Ground Zero. He said: “The ceremony honoring the passengers of Flight 93 was very moving. The passengers on Flight 93 were the first Americans to fight back against the terrorists and made the ultimate sacrifice. Their love for their country and their families overcame the hate of the terrorists. “I had the great fortune to meet with many family members of Flight 93. While they are still suffering from grief, they are very proud of their loved ones. “The Flight 93 Memorial is a reminder that when evil comes our way we must fight back. Evil must be confronted. Seven years after 9/11, we are still fighting back and I hope our nation never forgets what can happen when we are indifferent to evil.” #####
09.10.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Senate has approved a resolution recognizing the week of September 7, 2008 as “National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week.” The resolution, introduced by Graham, was passed unanimously and calls on Americans to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate support for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs). “Historically Black Colleges and Universities provide quality educational experiences and play a vital role in an increasingly complex and highly technological society,” said Graham. “HBCUs have a rich heritage and have played a prominent role in the history of the United States. Further, they have allowed many students to attain their full potential through higher education. I am pleased the Senate has come together in a bipartisan fashion to recognize the contributions and accomplishments of these institutions.” “The Thurgood Marshall College Fund family applauds Senator Graham’s leadership in recognizing the historic legacy and commitment to excellence of America’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities,” said Dwayne Ashley, President and CEO. “The Fund looks forward to continuing to expand higher educational opportunities for all of its students.” President Bush has also issued a proclamation designating September 7-13, 2008 as “National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week.” South Carolina is home to 8 Historically Black Colleges and Universities: Allen University, Benedict College, Claflin University, Clinton Junior College, Denmark Technical College, Morris College, South Carolina State University, and Voorhees College. ####
09.10.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Joe Lieberman (ID-CT) today urged the U.S. Senate to adopt a bipartisan resolution that recognizes the reality of the strategic success of the surge in Iraq : "It was exactly one year ago today that General David Petraeus returned to Capitol Hill to testify before Congress about the progress of the surge in Iraq. At the time, many members of the Senate argued that the surge -- despite growing evidence of its success -- was not working and should be abandoned. One left-wing group, Moveon.org, even made the despicable and outrageous accusation that General Petraeus would try to 'cook the books' to justify the surge when he appeared before Congress. "One year later, it is clear: the critics of the surge were wrong. "Had we heeded their advice to retreat from Iraq in 2007, the United States would have suffered a catastrophic defeat in the heart of the Middle East that would have had terrible consequences far beyond Iraq for years to come. Fortunately, we did not abandon General Petraeus and his brave troops, and as a result, the situation in Iraq has completely reversed. We have witnessed substantial progress on the political, economic and military fronts. Our enemies are weaker, and America is safer. "We congratulate the Iraqi people for coming together in the face of so much adversity to further the peace and prosperity of their country. We honor their sacrifices and share in their desire to continue to build on success. "The situation in Iraq remains fragile and complex. The war is not over. Our two deadliest enemies -- al Qaeda and Iran -- will seize any opportunities we hand them to come back. "However, because of the strategic success of the surge, more and more American troops are coming home, not in defeat, but in honor. "In withdrawing our troops from Iraq , however, it is critical that we do not jeopardize the hard-won gains they have achieved. That means any withdrawal must be based on the recommendations of General Petraeus and our commanders on the ground, not on an arbitrary timeline invented in Washington . Our brave military has fought too hard, and sacrificed too much, for American politicians to throw away the gains they have achieved with an arbitrary timeline. "What is needed now, therefore, is not more partisan politics over Iraq, but for Democrats and Republicans alike to come together and recognize reality: to acknowledge that the surge was not just a tactical success but a strategic success; to give thanks to our courageous men and women in uniform who made it possible; and to pledge that we will do nothing that might squander these hard-won gains. "For that reason, we have introduced a bipartisan resolution that recognizes the reality of the strategic success of the surge. We hope that the Senate can unite to take up and adopt this resolution this week, on the one year anniversary of General Petraeus' testimony before Congress and as he prepares to depart Baghdad to take command of U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM). The moment has come for the Senate to speak with one voice and admit the strategic success of the surge." ######
08.26.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) In the wake of Russia's invasion of Georgia, the United States and its trans-Atlantic allies have rightly focused on two urgent and immediate tasks: getting Russian soldiers out, and humanitarian aid in. But having just returned from Georgia, Ukraine and Poland, where we met with leaders of these countries, we believe it is imperative for the West to look beyond the day-to-day management of this crisis. The longer-term strategic consequences, some of which are already being felt far beyond the Caucasus, have to be addressed. Russia's aggression is not just a threat to a tiny democracy on the edge of Europe. It is a challenge to the political order and values at the heart of the continent. For more than 60 years, from World War II through the Cold War to our intervention in the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s, the U.S. has fostered and fought for the creation of a Europe that is whole, free and at peace. This stands as one of the greatest strategic achievements of the 20th century: the gradual transformation of a continent, once the scene of the most violent and destructive wars ever waged, into an oasis of peace and prosperity where borders are open and uncontested and aggression unthinkable. Russia's invasion of Georgia represents the most serious challenge to this political order since Slobodan Milosevic unleashed the demons of ethnic nationalism in the Balkans. What is happening in Georgia today, therefore, is not simply a territorial dispute. It is a struggle about whether a new dividing line is drawn across Europe: between nations that are free to determine their own destinies, and nations that are consigned to the Kremlin's autocratic orbit. That is the reason countries like Poland, Ukraine and the Baltic States are watching what happens in the Caucasus so closely. We heard that last week in Warsaw, Kiev and Tbilisi. There is no doubt in the minds of leaders in Ukraine and Poland -- if Moscow succeeds in Georgia, they may be next. There is disturbing evidence Russia is already laying the groundwork to apply the same arguments used to justify its intervention in Georgia to other parts of its near abroad -- most ominously in Crimea. This strategically important peninsula is part of Ukraine, but with a large ethnic Russian population and the headquarters of Russia's Black Sea Fleet at Sevastopol. The first priority of America and Europe must be to prevent the Kremlin from achieving its strategic objectives in Georgia. Having been deterred from marching on Tbilisi and militarily overthrowing the democratically elected government there, Russian forces spent last week destroying the country's infrastructure, including roads, bridges, port and security facilities. This was more than random looting. It was a deliberate campaign to collapse the economy of Georgia, in the hope of taking the government down with it. The humanitarian supplies the U.S. military is now ferrying to Georgia are critically important to the innocent men, women and children displaced by the fighting, some of whom we saw last week. Also needed, immediately, is a joint commitment by the U.S. and the European Union to fund a large-scale, comprehensive reconstruction plan -- developed by the Georgian government, in consultation with the World Bank, IMF and other international authorities -- and for the U.S. Congress to support this plan as soon as it returns to session in September. Any assistance plan must also include the rebuilding of Georgia's security forces. Our past aid to the Georgian military focused on supporting the light, counterterrorism-oriented forces that facilitate Tbilisi's contribution to coalition operations in Iraq. We avoided giving the types of security aid that could have been used to blunt Russia's conventional onslaught. It is time for that to change. Specifically, the Georgian military should be given the antiaircraft and antiarmor systems necessary to deter any renewed Russian aggression. These defensive capabilities will help to prevent this conflict from erupting again, and make clear we will not allow the Russians to forcibly redraw the boundaries of sovereign nations. Our response to the invasion of Georgia must include regional actions to reassure Russia's rattled neighbors and strengthen trans-Atlantic solidarity. This means reinvigorating NATO as a military alliance, not just a political one. Contingency planning for the defense of all member states against conventional and unconventional attack, including cyber warfare, needs to be revived. The credibility of Article Five of the NATO Charter -- that an attack against one really can and will be treated as an attack against all -- needs to be bolstered. The U.S. must also reaffirm its commitment to allies that have been the targets of Russian bullying because of their willingness to work with Washington. The recent missile-defense agreement between Poland and the U.S., for instance, is not aimed at Russia. But this has not stopped senior Russian officials from speaking openly about military retaliation against Warsaw. Irrespective of our political differences over missile defense, Democrats and Republicans should join together in Congress to pledge solidarity with Poland, along with the Czech Republic, against these outrageous Russian threats. Finally, the U.S. and Europe need a new trans-Atlantic energy alliance. In recent years, Russia has proven all too willing to use its oil and gas resources as a weapon, and to try to consolidate control over the strategic energy corridors to the West. By working together, an alliance can frustrate these designs and diminish our dependence on the foreign oil that is responsible for the higher energy prices here at home. In crafting a response to the Georgia crisis, we must above all reaffirm our conviction that Russia need not be a competitor or an adversary. Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, Democratic and Republican administrations have engaged Russia, sending billions of dollars to speed its economic recovery and welcoming its integration into the flagship institutions of the international community. We did this because we believed that a strong, prosperous Russia can be a strategic partner and a friend. We still do. But Russia's leaders have made a different choice. While we stand ready to rebuild relations with Moscow and work together on shared challenges, Russia's current course will only alienate and isolate it from the rest of the world. We believe history will judge the Russian invasion of Georgia as a serious strategic miscalculation. Although it is for the moment flush with oil wealth, Russia's political elite remains kleptocratic, and its aggression exposed as much weakness as strength. The invasion of Georgia will not only have a unifying effect on the West, it also made clear that Russia -- unlike the Soviet Union -- has few real allies of strategic worth. To date, the only countries to defend Russia's actions in the Caucasus have been Cuba and Belarus -- and the latter, only after the Kremlin publicly complained about its silence. In the long run, a Russia that tries to define its greatness in terms of spheres of influence, client states and forced fealty to Moscow will fail -- impoverishing its citizens in the process. The question is only how long until Russia's leaders rediscover this lesson from their own history. Until they do, the watchword of the West must be solidarity: solidarity with the people of Georgia and its democratically elected government, solidarity with our allies throughout the region, and above all, solidarity with the values that have given meaning to our trans-Atlantic community of democracies and our vision of a European continent that is whole, free and at peace. Mr. Graham is a Republican senator from South Carolina. Mr. Lieberman is an Independent Democratic senator from Connecticut. (This op-ed originally ran in the Wall Street Journal on August 26, 2008.)
08.06.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the verdict reached by the military commission in the Hamdan case. Hamdan was convicted by a panel of six military officers of providing material support for terrorism. He was acquitted on a more serious charge of conspiracy. The Hamdan case was the first military commission trial here and the first conducted by the United States since the end of World War II. Graham said: “With 25 years of experience as a military lawyer, I have a great deal of confidence in military judges, juries, prosecutors and defense attorneys to fairly and appropriately deal with allegations of war crimes by unlawful enemy combatants. These are the same lawyers and jurors who sit in judgment of our own troops when they are accused of misconduct. “As one of the primary authors of the Military Commissions Act (MCA), I continue to believe the military commission setting is the right venue for these trials, not civilian courts. Every conviction by the military commission, like Hamdan, can be appealed to federal civilian court and the Supreme Court. The due process rights granted to unlawful enemy combatants under the MCA are far beyond anything offered in other wars. “I was pleased the commission proceedings were open to the public to the maximum extent possible and the judge prohibited the use of evidence he found to be a result of coercive interrogations. “I have always believed it would be a major mistake to view those alleged to have been involved with Al Qaeda and other terrorist organizations to be common criminals instead of the warriors they claim to be. I believe military commissions are the right approach to deliver justice and protect our nation in the War on Terror.” ######
08.01.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) helped draft and signed on to a bipartisan energy proposal that enables our nation become more energy independent. The proposal, New Energy Reform Act of 2008 from the group dubbed the ‘Gang of 10’, contains provisions on offshore drilling, spent nuclear fuel recycling, promotes new technologies and conservation, and requires the oil companies to pay fair market prices for oil leases and drilling rights. “There is no greater problem facing average American’s and small business today than high fuel costs and our nation’s dependency on foreign oil, “said Graham. “Our proposal is not perfect, but it is a bipartisan start on the road to a comprehensive energy strategy leading our nation to independence from foreign oil. It will create new jobs from new technologies good for American wallets and our environment. I am proud to be part of this bipartisan effort to address this serious problem.” Among the major provisions of the legislation: Increased Off-Shore Drilling: The ban on offshore drilling in large parts of the Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic will be lifted. States would have to consent to drilling at least 50 miles off their shores. Recycling of Spent Nuclear Fuel: The recycling of spent nuclear fuel would reduce by 90 percent the waste to be placed in long-term storage at the proposed repository at Yucca Mountain, Nevada . Spent fuel rods would be recycled and reused as fuel in commercial nuclear power plants and would help reenergize our nuclear power industry. Strong Conservation and Energy Independence Measures: The proposal takes strong steps in promoting new technologies that will reduce the amount of foreign oil we consume. It expands existing incentives to purchase hybrid vehicles, facilitates the development of next-generation batteries, and includes hydrogen infrastructure tax credit to help bring this promising technology to market. Requires Oil Companies to Pay Fair Market Value: The proposal repeals tax breaks and incentives for oil companies. Oil companies will also be required to pay royalty payments due on existing leases where royalties were not previously charged. The inability to collect royalty payments was a result of poor drafting of leases during the Clinton Administration. The revenue would be invested in alternative fuels. "Offshore drilling, with the consent of the states, is an integral part of any energy independence plan,” said Graham. “There is no doubt we need more domestic exploration. Every barrel of oil we can find in America will be one less we have to compete with China and India for or be subject to OPEC price setting. The more domestic energy we can locate and utilize the better. “Since the 1970s, our country has had an irrational view of nuclear power,” said Graham. “This view is best demonstrated by our nation’s refusal to allow recycling of spent fuel rods. For decades the French, Japanese and British have all been recycling spent fuel. Surely this is an instance were we can be as bold as the French. “Our proposal also commits billions for research, development, and purchases of alternative fuel vehicles,” said Graham. “We call for an ‘Apollo Project’ like effort to support the goal of transitioning 85 percent of American new motor vehicles to non-petroleum-based fuels within the next 20 years. “Quite frankly, this particular tax incentive was never asked for by the oil companies,” said Graham. “It is irrational to be allocating around $1 billion per year in tax dollars to assist in production at a time when oil is $124 per barrel and companies are recording record profits. The proposal also seeks royalty payments due on existing leases where royalties were not previously charged. The inability to collect royalties was a result of poor drafting of the leases during the Clinton Administration and could result in billions in payments being collected over the next 10 years. These revenues will be invested in alternative fuel technology. “It is clear to the American people their Congress is broken. I appreciate the efforts of my colleagues to try to jumpstart serious discussions on how to solve America ’s energy crisis,” said Graham. “It is my hope that this group will provide some reassurance to the American people that we still can work together and find common ground on the important problems facing every American family and business. I hope that over the congressional recess support will build for this common-sense, balanced approach to making our nation more energy independent.” The members of the ‘Gang of 10’ include Senators Kent Conrad (D-North Dakota), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), John Thune (R-South Dakota), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), Bob Corker (R-Tennessee), Blanche Lincoln (D-Arkansas), Mary Landrieu (D-Louisiana), Mark Pryor (D-Arkansas), and Ben Nelson (D-Nebraska). ##### BACKGROUND ON THE NEW ENERGY REFORM ACT OF 2008 Roadmap to a Secure Energy Future Overview Knowing that the rising cost of energy is the number one issue facing Americans today, ten Senators from both sides of the aisle have come together to present a proposal to reduce gas prices, lessen our dependence on foreign oil, and strengthen our economy. The New ERA legislation represents a true compromise, incorporating common sense ideas. The purpose of the legislation is to transition our economy – particularly the surface transportation sector – to run off alternative fuels other than gasoline and diesel. The legislation dedicates at least $20 billion in the next ten years to this important endeavor. To ease gas prices in the interim, the New ERA bill includes significant conservation provisions and targeted, responsible measures to increase our domestic production of traditional fuel sources. Any new domestically produced resources must stay in the United States . The bill will also establish a National Commission on Comprehensive Energy Policy to identify critical “inhibitors and prohibiters” to the goals established in the bill and to make recommendations to Congress on policies to overcome these obstacles as well as to address related matters such as carbon capture and storage, nuclear and renewable energy, and the need for upgrading and transitioning the national grid and other energy infrastructure. The New ERA bill contains three main components: An intensive effort to transition vehicles to non-petroleum based fuels; a robust federal commitment to conservation and energy efficiency; and targeted, responsible domestic production of energy resources. Converting Cars and Trucks to Non-Oil Fuel Sources to Regain Energy Independence The New ERA legislation funds a $20 billion “Apollo Project” like effort to support the goal of transitioning 85 percent of America ’s new motor vehicles to non- petroleum-based fuels within 20 years. To accelerate this transition, the legislation includes: $7.5 billion for R&D focused on the major technological barriers to alternative fuel vehicles, such as advanced batteries; $7.5 billion to help U.S. automakers and parts makers re-tool and re-equip to become the world leader in making alternative fuel vehicles; Consumer tax credits of up to $7,500 per vehicle to incentivize Americans to purchase advanced alternative fuel vehicles (those that run primarily on non-petroleum fuels) and up to $2,500 to retrofit existing vehicles with advanced alternative fuel engines. Enhancing Conservation To ease gas prices and protect our environment during the transition, the proposal includes a significant federal commitment to promoting conservation and efficiency. These include: Extending renewable energy, carbon mitigation and energy conservation and efficiency tax incentives, including the production tax credit, through 2012 to create greater certainty and spur greater investment; New consumer tax credits of up to $2,500 to purchase highly fuel efficient vehicles, to help Americans reduce their annual gas costs and reduce oil imports; Extending and expanding the $2,500 tax credit for hybrid electric vehicles; $500 million for R&D into new materials and other innovations to improve vehicle fuel efficiency; $2.5 billion in R,D&D on next generation biofuels and infrastructure; Tax incentives for the installation of alternative fueling stations, pipelines and other infrastructure; Expanding transmission capacity for power from renewable sources; New dedicated funding for the weatherization assistance program. Responsible, Targeted Domestic Energy Production To help meet our energy needs until our economy transitions to advanced alternative fuel vehicles, the New ERA bill increases domestic energy production in environmentally responsible ways. The legislation: Provides a CO2 sequestration credit for use in enhanced oil recovery to increase production from existing oil wells while reducing greenhouse gas emissions; Opens additional acreage in the Gulf of Mexico for leasing (in consultation with the Defense Department to ensure that drilling is done in a manner consistent with national security) and allows Virginia, North and South Carolina and Georgia to opt in to leasing off their shores. Retains an environmental buffer zone extending 50 miles offshore where new oil production will not be allowed. Requires all new production to be used domestically. Creates a commission to make recommendations to Congress on future areas that should be considered for leasing. Provides for appropriate revenue sharing for states that allow leasing off their shores; Provides grants and loan guarantees for the development of coal-to-liquid fuel plants with carbon capture capability. Plants must have lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions below those of the petroleum fuels they are replacing; Supports nuclear energy by increasing staff at the NRC, providing workforce training, accelerating depreciation for nuclear plants, and supporting R&D on spent fuel recycling to reduce nuclear waste. Speculation The Group decided to focus on increasing supply and reducing demand and will await the mid-September report of the CFTC to consider this subject. Offsets The $84 billion in investments in conservation and efficiency in the New ERA bill will be fully offset with loophole closers and other revenues. Approximately $30 billion will come from new revenues from the oil and gas industry through such measures as modifying the Section 199 manufacturing deduction for oil and natural gas production and other appropriate measures to ensure that the federal government receives its fair share of revenue from Gulf of Mexico leases. Remaining offsets will be finalized in consultation with the Finance Committee after accounting for interaction effects with other pending legislation.
07.31.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has signed a letter with fellow Senators pressing Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid to ensure passage of legislation reauthorizing the E-Verify program which is set to expire in November. E-Verify is a web-based tool run by the Department of Homeland Security for employers across the country. The state of South Carolina has also passed into law legislation mandating the use of E-Verify for government contractors and private employers in coming years. Graham noted the comprehensive immigration reform bill Congress debated last year contained an even stronger version of E-Verify for employment verification and mandated all business use the system. However, Graham noted that even a watered-down version of electronic employment verification, like E-Verify, is better than none at all. “Congress is running out of time to reauthorize and even enhance E-Verify,” wrote Graham. “The number of employers relying on the program to hire legal workers is likely to grow. Small businesses and companies that utilize it need to be able to know that Congress is not going to let this program die.” Known as the Basic Pilot Program since its inception in 1996, E-Verify provides employers with a process to verify the work eligibility of new hires. Right now, nearly 80,000 employers use the program and according to U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service, more than 1,000 employers voluntarily sign up to use E-Verify each week. “Both sides of the aisle would like to see reforms to the electronic employment verification program,” said Graham. “Ultimately, we would prefer to pass a bill requiring mandatory participation in the program. Since there is very little time left in this session, we urge you to support a straight reauthorization of E-Verify. Extending the program will keep employers accountable while giving them the tools needed to abide by the law in their hiring practices.” The letter was also signed by Senators Charles Grassley (R-Iowa), Jon Kyl (R-Arizona), Arlen Specter (R-Pennsylvania), Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia), David Vitter (R-Louisiana), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama), James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma), John Ensign (R-Nevada), Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma), and Wayne Allard (R-Colorado). #####
07.30.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the current situation on the floor of the U.S. Senate where Senate Majority Leader Reid continues to block consideration and votes on energy proposals to allow additional offshore drilling and conservation efforts. Graham said: “The Senate is reinforcing every day why it is held in such low standing. “We should be solving problems, like our nation’s growing energy crisis, not going out of our way to avoid debating and voting on them. It’s truly sad the world’s greatest deliberative body has been reduced to deliberately blocking attempts to debate and cast votes on solutions to our broken energy policies. “I support tax extenders for American families and business. I support the media shield law. I support some of the other proposals we may eventually debate. But we should not have to choose between solving these problems and abandoning our attempts to fix our nation’s energy crisis. Let’s do all of them. It can be done.” ####
07.18.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on news President Bush and Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki have agreed to set a conditions-based ‘time horizon’ for the withdrawal of American combat troops from Iraq. Graham said: “Before the surge, democratic institutions in Iraq were on the verge of collapse. Sectarian violence and Iranian influence grew by the day and there existed the real possibility Iraq would become an al Qaeda safe haven and home base for future terrorist attacks. “With today’s agreement on a ‘time-horizon’ for a conditions-based withdrawal of U.S. combat forces, we have reached a point where it can be said the surge strategy articulated by Senator McCain and adopted by President Bush has worked on all fronts. “The surge provided better security allowing Iraqi institutions to grow in capability and afforded the political leadership breathing space from the violence to reconcile Iraq . “Today, the Iraqi government has met 15 of the 18 benchmarks set by Congress. Violence is down sharply across the board. Iraq ’s economic future is bright with strong economic growth and a tremendous increase in oil production. The Iraqi military’s performance in recent engagements against Shia militia and insurgents has been impressive. “ Iraq has also planned fall provincial elections which make clear the Iraqi people intend to settle their differences -- not with bullets and bombs -- but within the framework of democracy. “If our nation had taken the ill-advised course charted by Senator Obama -- pulling out troops during the height of sectarian violence – it would have been a death blow to representative government in Iraq . Al Qaeda extremists and Iran would have rejoiced at our tragic mistake. Our nation would have suffered a devastating defeat in the War on Terror. “Senator Obama was wrong when he opposed the surge. Senator Obama was wrong when he said it would fail and make things worse. Senator Obama was wrong when he said Iraq was not a central battle in the War on Terror. And Senator Obama continues to be wrong when he unilaterally announces and advocates a 16 month withdrawal of American forces. Senator Obama’s ill-advised timetable was arrived at without consulting our top generals like David H. Petraeus or the Maliki government. It is an irresponsible policy decision. “Let’s be clear, the stunning military, economic, and political progress that has been achieved from the surge has come at a heavy price in blood and treasure. But with its success, the likelihood of a stable, functioning, representative government in the heart of the Arab world is now closer to reality. “All Americans should be proud of the accomplishments of our men and women in uniform, along with the civilian support staff, and hopeful for our friends and allies in the new, democratic Iraq .” #####
07.14.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on President Bush’s decision to lift the executive ban on offshore drilling. He said: “I applaud the President’s decision to lift the moratorium on offshore exploration. There is no doubt we need more domestic exploration. Every barrel of oil we can find in America will be one less we have to compete with China and India for or be subject to OPEC price setting. The more domestic energy we can locate and utilize, the better.” ####
07.14.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and U.S. Representative Henry Brown (R-Hanahan) today expressed their support for the decision by Secretary of Veterans’ Affairs James Peake to make amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), often referred to as "Lou Gehrig's Disease,” a service connected disability. Graham and Brown have been working with Secretary Peake to make this designation, and Peake informed the lawmakers of his decision on a conference call this morning. “I applaud Secretary Peake’s decision to make ALS a service connected disability,” said Graham. “This devastating disease occurs in the military at more than twice the rate of the general population. The Secretary’s decision to find a service connection is justified and the right thing to do. This decision will provide much comfort to the military members suffering from this debilitating disease. I want to thank Henry Brown for his leadership on this issue, and General Mikolajcik for his service to our country and heroic stand on behalf of his fellow veterans.” “Today’s decision by Secretary Peake is the culmination of a concerted effort to have veterans with ALS receive benefits they deserve from the VA,” said Brown. “A growing number of veterans, especially those who served during the first Gulf War, have been diagnosed with ALS, and there is a clear connection between ALS and military service. Veterans with ALS, such as Charleston ’s Retired Brigadier General Thomas Mikolajcik, have shown the same determination in their fight for this change as they show in their fight against ALS. I was proud to stand beside them and Senator Graham in getting them the benefits that the evidence shows they deserve.” In addition to working to move the VA towards making today’s change, Congressman Brown introduced legislation (H.R. 5454) that would establish a presumption of service connection for all veterans with ALS. The House Veterans’ Affairs Committee held a hearing on Brown’s legislation just a month ago, and it was expected to move to the House floor before the end of the year. According to Secretary Peake, the change should go into effect August 1. ####
07.12.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the passing of Tony Snow. “Tony Snow was one of the most decent and loyal people I’ve ever known in political life. Tony was loyal to his maker, family, friends, ideals, and profession. He was one of the smartest and most articulate voices for the conservative cause in the nation. Tony was a true friend, and will be missed.” ####
07.10.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement following Senate confirmation of General David Petraeus as Commanding General of U.S. Central Command by a vote of 95-2, and General Raymond Odierno as Commander of Multi-National Force-Iraq by a vote of 96-1. Graham said: “I congratulate President Bush for nominating these fine officers for two of the most important jobs in the military. Generals Petraeus and Odierno are the right people at the right time to lead operations in Iraq and Afghanistan.” ####
07.09.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the passage of H.R. 6304, the FISA Amendments Act of 2008. The bill amends FISA and allows the United States to continue to monitor overseas phone calls of suspected terrorists while protecting the rights of American citizens. Senator Graham voted for the bill which passed the Senate 69-28. “Senator Obama is at it again on FISA. He’s trying to have it both ways—saying he supports a bipartisan bill while trying to kill it. Senator Obama voted to strip out the heart and soul of this bipartisan deal, legal immunity for telecommunications companies who cooperated with the federal government to monitor the overseas phone calls of suspected terrorists. Senator Obama continues to demonstrate that in his world bipartisanship means that the other side gives and he takes. “If the Dodd amendment to strip legal immunity had passed, an idea supported only by the far left, there would have been no deal. Without this bipartisan agreement our terrorist surveillance program would cease to be effective, exposing out country to many dangers. “I am pleased that 66 Senators, both Republicans and Democrats, voted to reject the Dodd amendment that would have unraveled the bipartisan agreement. I am disappointed, but not surprised, that Senator Obama could not muster the courage to do likewise. “Despite efforts to kill this agreement, the Senate has risen above political gamesmanship to make our country safer. This bill will provide American law enforcement and intelligence agencies with the tools they need to monitor terrorist suspects overseas and win the global war on terror.” ####
07.09.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement. “I have and will continue to support finding a permanent solution to the physician reimbursement formula. However, I truly believe the bill passed by the Senate today does great harm to Medicare Advantage, a program enjoyed by thousands of South Carolina seniors that allows them more choice in their health care. “I will continue to try to solve this problem in a bipartisan manner that is in the best interests of doctors, seniors, and taxpayers. I do not believe we should have to choose between helping doctors and destroying competition in Medicare.” ####
06.26.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today applauded the Supreme Court decision protecting the Second Amendment rights of Americans. Graham had signed on to an amicus brief to the United States Supreme Court in the case of the District of Columbia v. Heller. The brief was signed by Vice President Dick Cheney, 55 U.S. Senators, and 250 members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Graham said: “The Supreme Court decision reinforced what many of us have always believed – the District of Columbia law went too far in restricting the right of citizens to keep and bear arms. The case involved nothing more than the right of law abiding persons to keep common handguns and usable firearms for lawful self-defense in the home. “This is a historic ruling and I’m very pleased by the Supreme Court’s decision in support of the Second Amendment rights of all Americans.” ######
06.25.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today responded to the Supreme Court’s 5-4 decision that declares capital punishment to be unconstitutional for child rapists. “Unfortunately, it appears this session of the Supreme Court has been a winner for child rapists and terrorists,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “The Court’s statement there is a national consensus against the death penalty for cases that do not result in death is a complete misreading of the American people and their views on child rape. “We live in a world where predators habitually prey on children and engage in vicious, sadistic behavior,” said Graham. “Some states, like South Carolina , have moved forward to protect children. I’m very disappointed the Supreme Court decided to strike down the good-faith efforts to protect our nation’s children from child rapists. “Justice Alito made a passionate case against the majority ruling and its ‘sweeping conclusions.’ I completely agree with his assessment. He wrote the majority’s decision put the death penalty off limits -- “…..no matter how young the child, no matter how many times the child is raped, no matter how many children the perpetrator rapes, no matter how sadistic the crime, no matter how much physical or psychological trauma is inflicted and no matter how heinous the perpetrators’ criminal record may be. … The harm that is caused to the victims and to society at large by the worst child rapists is grave. It is the judgment of the Louisiana lawmakers and those in an increasing number of other states that these harms justify the death penalty. The court provides no cogent explanation why this legislative judgment should be overridden.” “One of the major issues facing our nation is the future makeup of the Supreme Court,” concluded Graham. “Will we continue to allow unelected judges to overrule legislation based on constitutional interpretations that are really nothing more than social engineering? If we do, we can expect more rulings like today." #####
06.23.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the impending release from prison of Pastor Phillip Miles of Conway, South Carolina . “I’m very pleased for Pastor Miles, his family and friends. Pastor Miles is a man of great faith and his friends and family have gone through a lot during this ordeal. I know they look forward to welcoming him home. “Pastor Miles was initially given a disproportionate sentence for his actions. We worked within the Russian legal system and kept politics at bay. I think it was a good strategy and today is a good outcome. I want to extend my deep appreciation for the hard work done by his legal team, the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, U.S. State Department, and those who kept Pastor Miles in their thoughts and prayers. #####
06.19.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the transferability provision being included in the Iraq supplemental funding bill. Transferability was one of the major differences between the Webb GI Bill and the competing proposal offered by Graham along with Senators John McCain (R-Arizona) and Richard Burr (R-North Carolina). The transferability provision allows service members to transfer their education benefits to their spouse or children. It will bolster recruitment and retention in addition to encouraging service members to continue their military careers. Graham said: “I am very pleased our transferability provision was included in the Iraq supplemental. There is no doubt this is a long overdue and much needed change in policy. While the transferability provision is worthwhile I have real reservations about the process used to pass the GI benefit legislation into law. The provision did not go through committee markup and we were offered little chance on the Senate floor to make improvements. Congress shouldn’t be doing the people’s business in this fashion. “One of the major concerns that Senators McCain, Burr and I had with the Webb bill was that it did not include transferability. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the Webb bill would have hurt reenlistment by 16 percent. It never made sense to us that we would penalize service members who decided to make the military their career. “It's in our own national interest to retain the best, brightest, and most experienced in our Armed Forces. The transferability provision provides greatly improved incentives for service members who wish to stay in the military. “Under transferability, service members can transfer their benefits to their spouse and children. This option recognizes the sacrifices made by both the military family as well as the service member, and this provision has been well-received by the military community. A service member who chooses to make the military their career will be able to use this benefit to pay for their children’s college education. “Transferability is sound policy and it makes sense to reward military members and their families who choose to reenlist. Transferability will dramatically enhance our ability to recruit and retain the all volunteer force necessary to win the War on Terror. “I’m very glad to see that our position won the day and transferability was included in the supplemental.” #####
06.19.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today responded to a comment made by his colleague, Senator Barack Obama (D-Illinois), on the recent Supreme Court ruling bestowing habeas rights on terror suspects. Senator Obama incorrectly stated habeas corpus, “is not designed to free prisoners.” Here is the full statement. “They are not serious about this. Because if they wanted to have a serious conversation about it then they would know for example that the issue of Habeas Corpus is not designed to free prisoners, what it's designed to do is make sure that prisoners who are being held, have at least one shot to say, ‘I’m being held wrongly.” (ABC News, June 17, 2008) Graham responded: “Contrary to Senator Obama’s statement, the Supreme Court’s bestowal of constitutional habeas rights on terror suspects has given them the green light to sue for their release. And yes, federal judges are now empowered to release terror suspects from American custody. Justice Kennedy’s majority opinion makes this fact clear. Kennedy wrote, “…the habeas court must have the power to order the conditional release of an individual unlawfully detained -- though release need not be the exclusive remedy and is not the appropriate one in every case in which the writ is granted.” (Boumediene v. Bush, page 50) “Senator Obama supports the Supreme Court ruling, but it appears from his comments he does not fully grasp the ruling’s effects. “Senator Obama should acknowledge federal district court judges do have the power to release terror suspects based upon their habeas petitions. And maybe he will acknowledge that on second thought, the Supreme Court’s granting federal judges this enormous power isn’t such a good idea. “I look forward to his response on this important subject. “I continue to find it mind-boggling that civilian judges -- in some of the most liberal district courts in the country – are now empowered to determine who is a military threat to the United States . Simply put, federal judges who have virtually no training in military or intelligence matters should not be making these decisions. We need to blunt their ability to do so.” #####
06.17.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Thank you, Mr. Chairman and thank you to the witnesses for testifying before us today. Let me begin by saying, I have long made clear I believe the Administration’s lawyers used bizarre legal theories to justify harsh interrogation techniques. I have also been troubled by the fact they implemented these procedures over the strenuous objections of military lawyers and many others with expertise in these issues. The guidance they provided will go down in history as some of the most irresponsible and shortsighted legal analysis ever provided to our nation’s military and intelligence communities. I do not believe the members of the Administration who played a major role in developing interrogation policies were motivated by anything other than a desire to protect our nation. Their service to our nation in that respect is to be appreciated. However, if the Administration adhered to the letter and spirit of the law, our treaty obligations, and adequately consulted with Congress, we wouldn’t be here today. It is important we all understand and agree that the high ground in the war against Islamic extremism is the moral high ground. We are not going to conquer our enemy on a battlefield. There will be no surrender with a white flag. It is a battle of ideas and values, and the issues we are going to discuss today represent a lost opportunity in this war. I’d like to briefly outline where we were in the aftermath of the tragic events of September 11th and where we are today in terms of the interrogation, detention, and trial of enemy combatants for war crimes. Let’s face the cold, hard facts. On September 10, 2001, America was unprepared. We weren’t ready to fight an enemy that claimed no country and wore no uniform. We weren’t ready to capture, detain, and interrogate terror suspects who represent no nation-state and indiscriminately kill civilians and soldiers alike. After we invaded Iraq , we underestimated the threat of an insurgency and we were slow to adapt to the situation on the ground. We were ill equipped to manage Abu Ghraib and perplexed by what to do with unlawful combatants in Afghanistan . I don’t offer our lack of preparation for this long war against radical Islamic extremism as an excuse, but rather as the context in which a series of extraordinarily poor decisions were made at the Pentagon, the Department of Justice, and the White House with respect to detainees. To the great regret of many of us, the Administration pursued a “Go it Alone” strategy when it came to the treatment and detention of unlawful enemy combatants. Under the rubric of the Commander in Chief’s inherent authority in a time of war and armed with the Authorization to Use Military Force, which Congress passed in the days after September 11th, the Administration implemented policies that were drafted, implemented, revised, rescinded and reissued in an endless loop. Interrogation techniques which were supposed to be limited to Guantanamo Bay may have migrated to Iraq and Afghanistan . The chaos was created by Administration lawyers’ decision to ignore the advice of senior military leaders and military lawyers and depart from decades of adherence to the Army Field Manual, the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and the Geneva Conventions. It is hard to fathom that our nation and the world would have to hear the United States discuss documents like the “torture memo.” Eventually, the departure from the time honored standards of the Geneva Conventions and their well-known and respected rules of restraint were replaced with a new set of untested procedures which became dangerously and disastrously confused. Detainee abuse was the unfortunate result. Mr. Haynes, who will come before this committee today, wrote in an official document that waterboarding “may be legally available” to the military, never mind the fact that it is clearly prohibited under the UCMJ. The final report of the working group on interrogation convened by Mr. Haynes reiterated an OLC opinion that “in order to respect the President’s inherent constitutional authority to manage a military campaign…[the prohibition against torture] must be construed as inapplicable to interrogations undertaken pursuant to his Commander-in-Chief authority.” I could go on and on about the legal analysis that any first year law student could poke holes in. Regarding detention and prosecution of detainees, we follow a similar pattern. I fought for years with the Administration to ensure the policies implemented for determining who is an enemy combatant and who should be tried for violations of war crimes followed the law of war. Here again, the Administration tried to play cute with the law on evidence obtained by coercive means, and access to classified evidence just to name two areas. Congress was late in exercising its authority in these matters. But the key point is that we eventually did. The passage of the McCain Amendment ensured that this nation wouldn’t engage in interrogation techniques that constituted cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. The Bush Administration fought Senator McCain on this prohibition, but Congress passed it overwhelmingly. The McCain Amendment started putting us back on the road to upholding the best traditions of our nation and restoring our standing in the world. In the same bill, the Detainee Treatment Act, the Army Field Manual became the standard for all Department of Defense interrogations. With the passage of the Military Commissions Act we have ensure that all of our interrogators are fully compliant with the Convention Against Torture, and Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions. The Military Commissions Act put in place procedures that our nation can be proud of when it comes to prosecuting detainees for War Crimes. I deeply regret the recent Supreme Court ruling providing a Constitutional right of habeas corpus to non-citizen terror suspects. I think the American people are going to be deeply disturbed to learn that the mastermind of 9/11, Khalid Sheik Muhammad, has the same constitutional rights as they do. As Chief Justice Roberts argued in his dissenting opinion: “So who has won? Not the detainees. The Court’s analysis leaves them with only the prospect of further litigation to determine the content of their new habeas right, followed by further litigation to resolve their particular cases, followed by further litigation before the D. C. Circuit—where they could have started had they invoked the DTA procedure. Not Congress, whose attempt to determine—through democratic means—how best” to balance the security of the American people with the detainees’ liberty interests…has been unceremoniously brushed aside. Not the Great Writ, whose majesty is hardly enhanced by its extension to a jurisdictionally quirky outpost, with no tangible benefit to anyone. Not the rule of law, unless by that is meant the rule of lawyers, who will now arguably have a greater role than military and intelligence officials in shaping policy for alien enemy combatants. And certainly not the American people, who today lose a bit more control over the conduct of this Nation’s foreign policy to unelected, politically unaccountable judges.” (p. 27-28) Unfortunately, the Administration didn’t want to give detainees an inch. Congress eventually gave them a few hundred yards and now the Supreme Court has given them a few miles. As long as these investigations go on, I am confident we will continue to find mistakes and uncover more poor policy decisions. But the overriding question is -- have we learned from our mistakes and are we all moving forward on a solid basis? The answer is yes. The fact that the legal and policy decisions made from 2002-2005 were based on inadequate legal analysis used to justify harsh treatment of detainees is not news to me. I don’t think it is news to anyone on this Committee or anyone who has followed or reviewed any of the 15 different Department of Defense investigations that have been launched in the last five years or the numerous hearings held in the House and Senate. This Committee alone has had 17 separate briefings and hearings on detainee abuses. Senator Warner is to be commended to making the difficult decision to have this committee fully investigate the Abu Ghraib scandal so that the American people and the world would know that when this country makes mistakes, it doesn’t hide from them or cover them up. So, respectfully, Mr. Chairman, we are not breaking new ground here. The abuses, the inconsistencies, and the pattern of poor judgment in these matters are well documented. The fact is that we have come a long way in the past five years. Secretary Rumsfeld is gone. Wolfowitz, Cambone and Feith are all gone. John Yoo and Jim Haynes are gone. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses today and hope that we continue to try to find a way to protect our nation that recognizes that even though we are at war, we must operate within the bounds of the laws and treaties that make our nation strong. Thank you, Mr. Chairman ###
06.12.2008	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Supreme Court ruling granting terror suspects in the War on Terror the right to sue in federal court. He said: “I am deeply disappointed in what I think is a tremendously dangerous and irresponsible ruling by the U.S. Supreme Court. "The Court’s decision is bad on many levels and I will continue to review the decision and determine its sweeping effect on our military. I will also explore the possibility, if necessary, of a constitutional amendment to blunt the effect of this decision when it comes to protecting our men and women in the military and our nation as a whole. “The Court has conferred upon civilian judges the right to make military decisions. These judges have virtually no training in military matters yet civilian judges, in some of the most liberal district courts in the country, will have an opportunity to determine who is a threat to the United States . “Furthermore, the habeas trials will put great burdens on our military forces. Enemy combatants potentially may be able to sue American troops for money damages and federal judges will now be in charge of the day-to-day military prisons and the interrogation of prisoners. This will empower activist lawyers and interest groups to intervene in basic military matters for the first time in history. “The Court ruling establishes a dangerous precedent for our country by conferring upon non-citizen enemy combatants the same rights as American citizens in a criminal proceeding. They ignore the fact these combatants are warriors, not common criminals. It is why I continue to believe the legal rights of enemy combatants should be governed by the law of war, not domestic criminal law. “The Court’s ruling makes clear the legal rights given to Al Qaeda members today should exceed those provided to the Nazis during World War II. Our nation is at war. It’s truly unfortunate the Supreme Court did not recognize and appreciate that fact. “I agree with Chief Justice John Roberts who noted the legal procedures available to detainees today are unprecedented and more than sufficient. I only wish one more member of the Court would have listened to his wise counsel. Instead, they took what I consider to be completely dangerous and irresponsible actions during a time of war. “I agree with Senator John McCain and others that the country would be better off with the closure of Guantanamo Bay in an appropriate fashion that protects our national security interests. However, that is not the issue presented to us by the Court. At the end of the day, the military is best equipped to determine who presents a military threat to the United States , not civilian judges.” IN CASE YOU MISSED IT Examples of Habeas Petitions Filed on Behalf of Detainees Due to yesterday’s Supreme Court ruling, here are some of the habeas petitions that may be allowed to proceed in federal court. "Al Odah -- Motion for Dictionary Internet Security Forms" -- Kuwaiti detainees seek court orders that they be provided dictionaries in contravention of Guantanamo Bay's (GTMO) force protection policy and that their counsel be given high-speed internet access at their lodging on the base and be allowed to use classified Department of Defense telecommunications facilities, all on the theory that otherwise their "right to counsel" is unduly burdened "Paracha -- Motion for Preliminary Injunction re Conditions" -- Motion by high level al Qaeda detainee complaining about base security procedures, speed of mail delivery, and medical treatment; seeking an order that he be transferred to the "least onerous conditions" at GTMO and asking the court to order that GTMO allow him to keep any books and reading materials sent to him and to "report to the Court" on "his opportunities for exercise, communication, recreation, worship, etc. "Motion for Preliminary Injunction re Medical Records" -- Motion by detainee accusing military's health professionals of "gross and intentional medical malpractice" in alleged violation of the 4th, 5th, 8th, and 14th Amendments, 42 USC 1981, and unspecified international agreements. "Abdah -- Emergency Motion re DVDs" -- "emergency" motion seeking court order requiring GTMO to set aside its normal security policies and show detainees DVDs that are purported to be family videos. "Alladeen -- Motion for Temporary Restraining Order re Transfer" -- Egyptian detainee who Combatant Status Review Tribunal adjudicated as no longer an enemy combatant, and who was therefore due to be released by the United States, files motion to block his repatriation to Egypt. "Petitioners' Supplemental Opposition" -- Filing by detainee requesting that, as a condition of a stay of litigation pending related appeals, the Court involve itself in his medical situation and set the stage for them to second-guess the provision of medical care and other conditions of confinement "Al Odah Supplement to Preliminary Injunction Motion" -- Motion by Kuwaiti detainees unsatisfied with the Koran they are provided as standard issue by GTMO, seeking court order that they be allowed to keep various other supplementary religious materials, such as a "tafsir" or 4-volume Koran with commentary, in their cells.
05.20.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the news concerning Senator Ted Kennedy. “All of us who serve in the Senate respect Senator Kennedy and were shocked to hear his diagnosis. We all hope for a speedy recovery. Senator Kennedy is a tough guy and my money is on Ted when it comes to recovering. He’s a worthy adversary and at times, someone you can do business with. He’s a man of his word. I’m very much hoping for a speedy recovery and praying for him and his family.” ####
05.08.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and Richard Burr (R-NC) today commented on the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) analysis of S. 22, the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2007. In response to a request from Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH), the ranking Minority Member of the Senate Budget Committee, the CBO provided information about the cost of S. 22, including its impact on the retention of military personnel. CBO estimates that enactment of S. 22 could lead to a decrease of 16% in reenlistment rates and increase the Department of Defense costs to maintain current levels of retention. “I believe we can and must do more to improve education benefits for our veterans and servicemembers,” said Senator McCain. “Congress must enact legislation that will increase education benefits, aid in recruitment and, importantly, encourage continued service in the military.” “As our armed forces fight a war on two fronts, we must do everything we can to maintain and encourage reenlistment” said McCain. “Unfortunately, S. 22 could greatly harm retention rates in our All Volunteer Force. I am hopeful that all of us who want to improve the GI Bill education benefits can join forces and that is why I stand ready to work with Senator Webb and others to pass meaningful legislation that works in the best interests of all servicemembers and veterans, including those that remain on duty." “Our nation faces many challenges when it comes to maintaining our all volunteer force. There is no doubt our servicemembers have earned enhanced education benefits; however, these benefits should be balanced to reflect the service of our citizen soldiers and career forces,” said Senator Graham. “It's in our own national interest to retain the best, brightest, and most experienced in our armed forces. The Graham-Burr-McCain bill enhances education benefits for all veterans and provides revolutionary incentives for servicemembers who wish to stay in the military. Under our transferability provision, these members can transfer their benefits to their spouse and children. This option recognizes the sacrifices made by both the military family as well as the service member, and this provision has been well-received by service members and their families,” said Graham. “Significant improvements in education benefits for our military personnel are long overdue,” said Senator Burr. “Education benefits should aid recruitment and retention efforts and help servicemembers pursue successful careers after they leave the military. The Graham-Burr-McCain bill is a simple and fair plan that would allow more personnel to transfer their unused benefits to spouses and children, encouraging career service and helping military families reach their educational goals.” ###
05.06.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) As far as I can tell, I am the only thing between you and your degree… In 1492, Columbus… No, we’ll keep it short. What a great story from the class president… You know what happened to those monkeys? [Reference to story in senior class president’s speech about monkeys.] Three of them went to Congress… to carry on the tradition of doing things without a purpose. And being an Air Force guy, the other guys went with the Navy. How many people do we have from out of state? Whoohoo. Henry [Congressman Henry E. Brown, U.S. Representative], we showed up in the wrong place. We are up for re-election this year. Welcome. Enjoy your time. Spend money. There is a lot of tradition in this place. I tell you, this has been an emotional morning already. I took Senator Strum Thurmond’s place in the Senate. Have anyone ever heard of him? Yes. A round for Strom. Senator Hollings was my senior senator. He was for 36 years a junior senator of South Carolina. He was the senior senator for two years. That does not sound quite right, but I wanted to acknowledge his service to our country. A Citadel graduate. My first two years in the senate, he was indispensable to me, showing me the ropes. I spent most of my time interpreting for Senator Hollings. People would come up and say, “What did he say?” And these are Democrats. There is something about Karl Rove and the tax cuts that he doesn’t quite like, but I really enjoyed my time in the senate with Senator Hollings. He is a great graduate of the school and I have followed two legends. Senator Thurmond served in the Senate until he was 100, the longest serving member of the Senate in our nation’s history. He was elected in 1954. I was born in ’55—the job did not come open a lot, so thanks for letting me have it. He was a member of the military. He served in World War II. To our friends in the class of ’44, Strom was there with you. What you don’t know is that Strom was a sitting judge. Judge Chandler [Retired State Supreme Court Justice A. Lee Chandler and a member of the class of 1944], Strom was a Circuit Court Judge in South Carolina when the war started. He was in his 40s. He had to get a waiver to go serve. He called President Roosevelt to call in a favor, I guess. But they allowed him to go. He landed in D-day, June 6, 1944, in a glider. He fought throughout the European Theater and headed to Japan before they surrendered. Pretty impressive. Right? It gets better. Fifty years later on the 50th anniversary of the D-day landing, they are getting up a group from Congress go to represent America at the D-day landing. Well, who did they ask to lead the delegation? Senator Thurmond. He was the oldest … he was actually there. So, they write him a letter requesting that he lead the American delegation to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the D-day landing. He writes back, “Honored you asked. Can’t go. Got a kid graduating from high school.” It’s a tough act to follow. Now when I stop talking here in the minute, you are going to get your degree—the class of 2008—and you are going be able to say when asked, “Where did you go to school?” Well, I am a Citadel graduate.” Sounds pretty good, doesn’t it? People will be impressed. People all over this country and all over this world will know what that phrase means. I am a Citadel graduate. It means to the rest of us that you have a value-based education. Duty, honor, country, military discipline, roll around superior academics. People will be impressed. A couple of challenges to you: As you go out into the world and deal with some of the monkeys that have made it, don’t let the world change the values that The Citadel has instilled in you. Instead, change the world by applying those values. The world is in desperate need of value-based leadership. To those of you who go in business, follow Mr. Cathy’s [honorary degree recipient] motto. I will drive across town to eat at Chick-fil-A. I am trying to get some free coupons—maybe I will keep talking. But, he has made it as a businessman, and he has given a lot more back than he has made, and I am just honored to be up here with all of the honorees. But if you go into business, pursue the common good, not just the bottom line. Our business community needs ethical leadership now more than ever. So, if you start a business, make sure that business not only serves your family but that it serves a greater purpose. If you have a family, instill into your children a sense of purpose, self-confidence. Instill in them the values that you have learned here. If you will do that, you will never have to worry about your kids. To those who go in public service, serve a cause greater than yourself. That is exactly what The Citadel stands for. At this time of the year when we have commencement speeches, the speaker is supposed to pass on some wisdom. This is the good news. This will be the very short part of my speech. I don’t have a lot. When you make 800 on the SAT, the only job you can really go into is politics. As you can tell, math is not required in my business, to the young men from Taiwan [the First Honor Graduate]. But one thing I have learned, as you travel through life, walk with God—it will make it an easier journey. That is the one thing I have learned. A lot of people out there will want to knock you down, but God will always lift you up and let you do things you didn’t think you could do by yourself. Another thing I have learned is don’t forget the ones that love you the most. As you pursue economic, political, and military success, as you get focused on this material world that awaits you, don’t forget the ones that love you the most. When I was a junior in college, my mom died. Fifteen months later, my dad died. You never know what is coming your way. You have lost five people in your class. It can be a tough old world out there, and the sky is the limit for you. You got opportunity that is unlimited but no matter where you go and no matter how much money you make, on your deathbed, you are not going to be thinking about what is in your bank account. You are going to be thinking about those that mean the most to you—your family and your friends. So, the only wisdom I can give you, is no matter where you go, remember those that love you the most. Now, this degree is something special, but it is just a piece of paper on the wall if it doesn’t help people. Your degree, ladies and gentlemen, needs to be put into action and if it serves a purpose greater than yourself and someone other than you can benefit from it, then it truly is something of value. To the class of ’44, it doesn’t seem quite fair that after all these years, your reward is you get to hear me speak. Sorry about that. Very few classes have a speaker that was born 11 years after you were supposed to graduate. To the gentlemen of the class of ’44, you won a war against tyranny, you defeated the Nazis, the imperial Japan. You were called to duty as young men to go fight the world that seemed to have been going crazy at the time. You made us all safe. Without you, there would be no me. There would be no us. You came back home. You built a strong country, raised great families. To the class of ’44, well done. And to those who did not make it, that is why we are here today. We are here today to honor them. To the class of 2008, let me talk about your war. How many are going on that duty? God bless you. Sixty-four years later, we are talking about a world at war, a global struggle against the fanatical enemy who believes that there is only one way to worship God and that there is only a limited role for a woman. Sound familiar? What did Adolf Hitler believe? What did Tojo believe? There is something about mankind that seems to be eternal, good and bad. Well, your enemy has the same desires as the enemy of 64 years ago. They like to take over the world and make us all follow them. Well, you know what? We’re not. We’re not going to follow them. You are going to do what the class of ’44 did, you are going to stand up to them and you are going to beat them. This is a different war. In many ways, it is harder for you than it was with these guys. I know that that is an odd thing to say. Because when they went off to war, the country was united. The world was united. Everybody was in the fight. Well, in your global struggle, we don’t have a united view of things, and that’s okay. This is a democracy. The enemy you are fighting doesn’t have a country to conquer. It doesn’t have a Navy to sink or an Air Force to shoot down. They do not wear uniforms but they are just as vicious and brutal as anybody we fought in World War II, and we’ve got to win. You know why we’ve got to win? Because if we lose, America is in trouble. If we lose to these hate filled religious fanatics and let them acquire nuclear weapons or biological or chemical weapons, we will never know peace. Just as the class of ’44 had to beat Adolf Hitler for the good of the world, you have to beat the fanatics of our time for the good of the world in America. And I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, after 11 visits to Iraq and numerous visits to Afghanistan, we are in good hands. Your contemporaries, people your age are in the fight now and some of you are soon to follow. Make me proud to be an American. You are all a volunteers. Most of us have not suffered much at all in this war but a few of us wearing the uniform have suffered greatly. I have never been more enthusiastic about being an American as I am now because I have met the best of among those. Those in uniform of your generation, of your age and I find them to be the best among us. So in closing, I am honored to be here to speak to two classes separated by 64 years, different taste in music and movies probably, connected by timeless values of duty, honor, country. Graduates, soon to be graduates of a school with a history of confronting evil and protecting America. To the class of ’44, you are known as the greatest generation. You earned that title. To the class of 2008, you are a class of destiny because you are inheriting a world at war, for evil roams the globe and much is at stake. How will it end? It will end in your victory because the way evil has been contained since the beginning of time is for good men and women to meet the challenges of their time. That is the way this war will end. It will be the good men and women of the class of 2008 and your comrade in arms throughout the country that would choose to go to far away places with strange sounding names to confront and defeat the evil that faces us all. It is your destiny to protect America from forces that wish her harm. Just as the class of 1944, you are bound in a tradition and united by challenge. I am honored to speak to you today and I know full well that as with the class of 1944, some of you might not come back. God bless.
05.01.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was very pleased Savannah River Site is in line to receive increased funding under the 2008 Defense Authorization bill. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. The bill passed committee unanimously and will now be sent to the full Senate. “With this budget the federal government can live up to the commitments it has made to the state of South Carolina when it comes to cleanup and new missions,” said Graham. “I’m very pleased with the work of the committee and appreciate the support of my colleagues in recognizing and rewarding the hard work done at the Site. I will work with appropriators to fund the important work being done at the Site.” Among the major Site highlights of the legislation: Overall the Site has been authorized to receive funding of $1.28 billion, $74 million above the President’s budget request. Soil and ground water remediation, nuclear facility demolition and deconstruction, and nuclear material stabilization authorized for $573 million, $74 million above the President’s request. Tank cleanup is fully funded at the President’s request of $706 million including $128 million for Salt Waste Processing Facility (SWPF). The MOX program at the Site is authorized to receive $487 million equal to the President’s request. Oversight of the MOX program has been returned to the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) is recognition of its role as a critical nuclear nonproliferation program and its strategic importance to the national security of the United States. Last year, oversight of MOX was transferred to DOE’s office of Nuclear Energy which has oversight of commercial nuclear power. The Russian fissile material program will receive an additional $10 million to continue the joint gas reactor technology demonstration program. The gas reactor is a more efficient burner of excess plutonium than conventional reactors. The committee also noted that the Russian Government and the U.S. jointly fund this effort and that Russia’s support for this program will exceed the U.S. contribution. “MOX is and always has been a national security issue,” said Graham. “Keeping MOX under the national security umbrella will help in our efforts to obtain future funding and begin operation of the MOX facility. Turning weapons grade plutonium into nuclear fuel is the ultimate example of turning swords into plowshares. This budget plan makes clear that my colleagues and I who serve on the Senate Armed Services Committee remain strongly committed to the MOX program.” #####
05.01.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Richard Burr (R-NC), and John McCain (R-AZ) officially introduced S. 2938, the Enhancement of Recruitment, Retention, and Readjustment Through Education Act on the Senate floor this week. The original co-sponsors include Senators Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Joe Lieberman (ID-CT), John Cornyn (R-TX), Lamar Alexander (R-TN), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Ted Stevens (R-AK), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Susan Collins (R-ME), John Barrasso (R-WY), Pete Domenici (R-NM), Elizabeth Dole (R-NC), Roger Wicker (R-MS), Johnny Isakson (R-GA), and Jim Inhofe (R-OK). The Graham-Burr-McCain bill enhances the existing Montgomery G.I. Bill by significantly improving education benefits for both service members who choose to leave the military as well as those who decide to make military service their career. The legislation will help more military personnel attend college debt-free, and allow them to transfer their education benefits to their spouse or children. It also bolsters recruitment and retention efforts, encouraging service members to continue their military careers. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates and Secretary of Veterans’ Affairs James Peake have questioned the effectiveness and implementation of an alternative plan sponsored by Senator Jim Webb (D-VA) while expressing support for the key components of the Graham-Burr-McCain bill. #### What They’re Saying about S. 2938 The Enhancement of Recruitment, Retention, and Readjustment Through Education Act U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) “It is time we give back to those who have served and continue to serve our nation so valiantly. I’m proud to be part of this effort to recognize and reward the sacrifices service members and their families are making on behalf of a grateful nation. Our legislation increases the monthly benefit for active duty and reserve personnel and greatly expands the education benefits available to service members. For the first time we ensure that all service members will be permitted to transfer their education benefits to their spouses and children -- a much needed and long overdue improvement.” Graham is the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee and Member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee U.S. Senator Richard Burr (R-North Carolina) “The Montgomery G.I. Bill has been one of the best recruiting tools our military has to offer, but an increase in this benefit is long overdue. This legislation will help more military personnel graduate from college debt-free and also let them transfer their benefits to their children and spouses. These improvements will help active duty, veterans, Guard, and Reserves reach their educational goals and help our military recruit and retain the best America has to offer.” Burr is the Ranking Member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee U.S. Senator John McCain (R-Arizona) “We have an obligation to provide unwavering support to our nation’s veterans and service members. Men and women who have served their country deserve the best education benefits we are able to give them, and they deserve to receive them as quickly as possible. And that is what our legislation is designed to accomplish. I am pleased to join in sponsoring this legislation which significantly enhances the Montgomery GI bill and promotes recruitment and retention which is critical to an All Volunteer Military. Their exemplary service to our nation, and the sacrifice of their families, deserves no less.” McCain is the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Committee U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) “American servicemen and women deserve our greatest respect and support for their selfless dedication and sacrifice. Improvements in the G.I. Bill, particularly immediate increases in education benefits and significant increases in benefits for members of the National Guard and Reserves, are critical and long overdue.” Hutchison is the Ranking Member of the Military Construction Appropriations Subcommittee and Member of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee U.S. Senator Elizabeth Dole (R-North Carolina) “For many decades, the G.I. Bill has demonstrated America’s commitment and gratitude to those who serve, including veterans like my husband Bob. Strengthening the G.I Bill will ensure that our military can continue to recruit and retain outstanding men and women to our armed forces and provide the education benefits they richly deserve.” Dole is the Ranking Member of the Armed Service Subcommittee on Emerging Treats and Capabilities U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) “Our nation has an obligation to our servicemen and women and their families who make the sacrifice every day for freedom and democracy. I'm pleased to support legislation that will greatly expand educational benefits available to service members. We need to modernize the G.I. bill so it reflects the today's cost of education and effectively addresses other quality of life issues.” Chambliss is a member of the Armed Services Committee U.S. Senator Joe Lieberman (ID- Connecticut) “This legislation is an important step towards rewarding our service members who continue to serve so bravely during this difficult period. Our war fighters are not alone in their hardships however, and this new bill recognizes the sacrifices of our military families. The measure allows education benefits to be transferred to them incrementally, further rewarding continued service. This addition will not only improve the standard of living for many service members, but will also increase the health of the All-Volunteer Force. I am also pleased to see the increase in benefits to National Guard and Reserve forces that have not been activated. These warriors continue to train and stand ready for any emergency that would face our homeland, and also deserve increased benefits. I hope the Senate will combine the best ideas from the several proposals into a bipartisan legislative consensus to provide these critical benefits to our bravest citizens and their families.” Lieberman is the Chairman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Airland U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-Texas) “We need to reward both service members who leave the military and those who decide to make the military a career. Our troops have answered the call of duty and they deserve no less.” Cornyn is the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Airland U.S. Senator Mel Martinez (R-Florida) “Ensuring that our veterans and active military have access to a good education is a top priority. While increasing the monthly education benefits, this bill goes further in allowing for the transfer of benefits to family members. That step enhances recruitment and retention. I’m also concerned for the families of service men and women. Their sacrifice should also be recognized through additional educational opportunities.” Martinez is the Ranking Member of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Seapower U.S. Senator John Barrasso (R-Wyoming) “It is our duty as Americans to ensure our brave men and women receive the best possible education benefits. This bill goes a long way to updating the G.I. bill, and providing service members and veterans the flexibility they need to continue their education.” Barrasso is a member of the Foreign Relations Committee U.S. Senator Ted Stevens (R-Alaska) “Having relied on the Montgomery GI Bill myself, I know firsthand how important these benefits are to veterans. Congress can and should do more to ensure veterans and military members in active duty, reserve, and guard units receive the maximum benefits possible. This bill is a significant step forward because it addresses the increasing cost of higher education, while recognizing the recruiting and retention needs of America’s all-volunteer military force.” Stevens is the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense U.S. Senator Pete Domenici (R-New Mexico) “There is greater recognition that the GI Bill must be updated to meet the modern education needs of our veterans and current service members. There is momentum growing in Congress to finally get this done. The Graham-Burr-McCain bill is a good plan based on feedback from our current and former troops that implements needed reforms and also helps with recruitment and retention.” Domenici is a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense U.S. Senator Thad Cochran (R-Mississippi) “In 1984, Congressman Sonny Montgomery recognized the need that existed among America’s veterans for a more robust GI bill to assist in paying for higher education. His efforts enabled the GI Bill to continue until today, and I am pleased to be a part of the current effort to ensure that even more veterans are able to receive adequate education benefits.” Cochran is the Ranking Member of the Appropriations Committee U.S. Senator Lamar Alexander (R-Tennessee) “The first GI bill was one of the most successful pieces of legislation Congress has ever passed. Millions of our Greatest Generation’s veterans received an education that improved their lives and helped strengthen our country. The bill I’m supporting gives us an opportunity to build on that success. After meeting with military and guard officials in Tennessee to get their input, I’m even more convinced that this legislation to update the GI bill is fair to our state’s veterans and will support military retention. Importantly, this bill will ensure that Tennesseans receive the same education benefits as veterans in other states.” Alexander is the Republican Conference Chairman What They’re Saying About S. 22, the Webb G.I. Bill Secretary of Defense Robert Gates “Our first objective is to strengthen the All-Volunteer force. Accordingly, it is essential to permit transferability of unused education benefits from service members to family. This is the highest priority set by the Service Chiefs and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, reflecting the strong interest from the field and fleet. Transferability supports military families, thereby enhancing retention. Second, any enhancement of the education benefit, whether used in service or after retirement, must serve to enhance recruiting and not undercut retention.” “…In conclusion, for all of these reasons, the Department does not support S. 22. This legislation does not meet, and, in some respects, is in direct variance to the Department’s above-stated objectives and supporting criteria.” Secretary of Veterans’ Affairs James Peake “He (Secretary Gates) indicated that negative retention effects may begin when the value of the monthly education benefit exceeds about $1500. For that reason, and because of other concerns stated in the lette
04.23.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on General David Petraeus being nominated to serve as the next commander of U.S. Central Command and Lieutenant General Ray Odierno being tapped as the next commander of the Multi-National Forces Iraq. Graham said: “I’m extremely pleased President Bush has decided to place General Petraeus and General Odierno in these important positions. They are excellent choices. “General Petraeus and General Odierno deserve great credit for the success of the surge of troops in Iraq. “What General Petraeus has done in the last year and a half in Iraq will go down in history as one of the most successful counter-insurgency operations in history. Working together, General Petraeus and General Odierno have been a dynamic duo spearheading our efforts in Iraq. “As the new commander of CENTCOM, General Petraeus will oversee the battlefields in Afghanistan and Iraq. I’m confident he will take the vast experience he has accumulated in Iraq and apply it to the situation in Afghanistan. Winning the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are central to our efforts to win the war on Islamic extremism. “General Odierno is experienced in the situation in Iraq and our troops greatly admire his leadership. In addition, our Iraqi allies know and respect his work in bringing about a more secure and stable country. “The jobs General Petraeus and General Odierno will hold are critical to winning the War on Terror. I have tremendous confidence in them. They are two of our best commanders.” #####
04.22.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Richard Burr (R-NC), and John McCain (R-AZ) today unveiled the Enhancement of Recruitment, Retention, and Readjustment through Education Act. The Graham-Burr-McCain bill enhances the existing Montgomery G.I. Bill by improving education benefits for servicemembers, veterans, and members of the Guard and Reserve. The legislation will help more military personnel attend college debt-free, and allow them to transfer their education benefits to their spouse or children. It also bolsters recruitment and retention efforts, encouraging servicemembers to continue their military careers. “It is time we give back to those who have served and continue to serve our nation so valiantly,” said Graham. “I’m proud to be part of this effort to recognize and reward the sacrifices service members and their families are making on behalf of a grateful nation. Our legislation increases the monthly benefit for active duty and reserve personnel and greatly expands the education benefits available to service members. For the first time we ensure that all servicemembers will be permitted to transfer their education benefits to their spouses and children, a much needed and long overdue improvement.” “An increase in Montgomery G.I. benefits is long overdue,” Burr said. “This legislation goes a long way in providing servicemembers with the ability to attend college debt-free and improves one of the best recruiting and retention tools the armed forces have. I am pleased our bill will also allow more family members to take advantage of the education benefits that their loved ones in the military did not use. This measure is a simple and fair way to help active duty, veterans, Guard, and Reserves attain their educational goals and to encourage military careers.” “We have an obligation to provide unwavering support to our nation’s veterans, and that is precisely what this legislation does,” said McCain. “Men and women who serve their country in uniform deserve the best education benefits we are able to give them. That is why I am pleased to join with Senators Graham and Burr to announce legislation that significantly enhances the Montgomery GI bill and promotes recruitment and retention which is critical to an All Volunteer Military.” The legislation provides: An immediate increase in education benefits for active duty personnel to $1500 a month, and to improve retention, those benefits increase to $2000 a month after 12 or more years of service. Significantly increased benefit for members of the National Guard and Reserves. Transferability, the ability of service members to transfer their education benefits to dependents. After 6 years, half of the benefit may be transferred and after 12 years 100% may be transferred to a spouse or dependent children. Student loan repayment. Allows servicemembers to use up to $6,000 per year of Montgomery G.I. Bill education benefits to repay Federal student loans. Creation of a matching program to help more veterans graduate debt-free. Up to an additional $3,000 per year could be paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs in return for the school retiring some or all of the servicemember’s debt. Access to Montgomery G.I. Bill benefits for service academy graduates and Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps officers who continue serving. Builds on existing educational benefits program to ensure rapid implementation with minimal additional administrative costs. “We do not need to reinvent the wheel,” said Graham. “Our legislation improves benefits and modernizes the Montgomery G.I. Bill education program without creating new levels of red tape and bureaucracy.” “The Montgomery G.I. Bill education program is an extremely effective tool that creates a more educated workforce and helps our armed forces recruit the best our country has to offer,” Burr said. “This legislation ensures the MGIB program will continue to help veterans, our military, and our country.” “We should encourage servicemembers to remain in the military, and they should be rewarded with additional benefits if they do,” said McCain. “And, we need to ensure that families are not forgotten, which is why our legislation would allow servicemembers to transfer their benefits to their spouses or children if they so choose.” ##### Findings The findings underscore the importance of education benefits, particularly the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB), in achieving not only successful readjustment to civilian life, but also recruiting and retention within the All Volunteer Force for servicemembers and their families. Immediately increase education benefits Effective October 2008, increase from $1,100 to $1,500 per month the education benefits provided by the Montgomery GI Bill. This amount would cover the average cost of a 4-year public college, including room, board, tuition, and fees. Gradually increase benefits to $2,000 per month by 2011 for members who serve on active duty for 12 years or more. Provide $500 per year for books and supplies. Effective October 2008, increase from $880 to $1,200 per month the education benefits for Guard and Reserve members called to active duty since September 11, 2001. For those members of the Guard and Reserves who serve in the Selected Reserve for 12 years or more and who continue serving in the Selected Reserve, gradually increase benefits to $1,600 per month by 2011. Effective October 2008, double from $317 to $634 the education benefits for other members of the Guard and Reserves. Allow more servicemembers to transfer education benefits to dependents Provide broad authority to regular components and Guard and Reserves to allow members to transfer their education benefits to their spouses or children. After serving for at least 6 years, a member could transfer up to half (18 months) of their education benefits to a spouse, children, or both. After serving for 12 years or more, a member could transfer all of their education benefits (36 months) to a spouse, children, or both. This could provide up to $72,000 towards a dependent’s education. Allow more servicemembers to access VA education benefits Allow service academy graduates and Senior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps participants, who currently have no GI Bill benefit, to access benefits, including transferability, under the MGIB. They would be required to complete their initial period of obligated service and then continue to serve for 5 additional years on active duty to become eligible. Allow certain career servicemembers who enlisted between 1977 – 1985 and who were offered only the inferior Post-Vietnam Era Educational Assistance Program (VEAP), who were on active duty after 9/11/01 and who retired since then or are currently serving, the opportunity to access Montgomery GI Bill education benefits by contributing $2,700. This would be for bachelor’s degree only and be non-transferable. Allow use of education benefits to repay school loans Allow active-duty servicemembers to use up to $6,000 per year of MGIB benefits to repay federal student loans. Create matching program (College Patriots Grant Program) to help more veterans graduate debt-free If a college agrees to provide supplemental financial assistance to help veterans attend debt-free, VA would contribute up to $3,000 per year (in addition to other VA education benefits) to help meet a veteran’s unmet education costs. The combined assistance from VA and the school (which could far exceed VA’s contribution) could allow veterans to attend any institution debt-free. Sense of the Congress and Report Express the sense of the Congress that those who join the All Volunteer Force aspiring to obtain a bachelor’s degree and are willing to serve a career in the military should be afforded the means and assistance to obtain a bachelor’s degree during the course of their military career. Require the Department of Defense to submit a report to Congress on how to accomplish the goal of guiding servicemembers who are motivated to achieve military careers and a bachelor’s degree.
04.15.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Tax Day -- April 15 -- is dreaded by taxpayers across the country. Whether it's the mountains of paperwork some pore through to file their taxes or the fact some have to send more of their hard-earned money to Washington , few people find April 15 to be an enjoyable experience. I often hear from South Carolinians encouraging me to find some way -- any way -- to make Tax Day less burdensome. Taxpayers are frustrated and with good reason. Congress has repeatedly drug its feet on making the 2001 and 2003 Bush tax cut permanent, while the sheer length and complexity of our current tax code is mind-boggling. And calls to move toward a simpler, easier to understand tax system go unanswered. In 2001 and 2003, President Bush brought forward a tax relief package designed to reduce the burden on taxpayers. Tax rates were cut across the board allowing working Americans to keep more of what they earned. We eliminated the marriage penalty, the quirk in the tax code which forced married couples to pay more in taxes than they would if they filed as individuals. Taxes on dividends and capital gains were reduced, encouraging people to invest for the future. The child tax credit was doubled to $1,000 and we put the dreaded death tax on a path to extinction. It was the right medicine for an ailing economy and the results were clear. By lowering taxes, the federal government spurred economic development and actually collected more in tax revenue. Since 2004, tax revenue has steadily increased as a percent of gross domestic product and is currently around historical averages. The tax cuts have been good for South Carolina as well. If the tax cuts expire, the average family would pay an additional $2,300 per year. Seniors would pay $2,200 and small business owners would see their tax bill increase $4,100. I believe some of the uneasiness taxpayers feel today about the economy is driven by concerns they are going to be hit with huge tax increases when the tax cuts expire. The day of reckoning, 2010, is rapidly approaching, and if we don't extend the tax cuts Americans will be confronted with the largest increase in personal income taxes since World War II. Earlier this year I introduced an amendment to the Senate budget resolution which makes the Bush tax cuts permanent. Unfortunately, it was defeated in a near party-line Senate vote of 47-52. I'll pose to you the same question I posed the members of the U.S. Senate. With uncertain economic times ahead, does it make sense to raise taxes on Americans who are already struggling to make ends meet? I'm confident the U.S. Senate's answer is not the same as taxpayers in South Carolina . Making the Bush tax cuts permanent is the short-term goal, but if our nation wants to remain prosperous to come, we need a clear, long-term plan to reform our broken, outdated tax code. The new global economy requires a tax code which makes us competitive. There are many exciting and varied proposals which have been put forward. Many in South Carolina and across the nation favor a Fair Tax, while others support a flat tax. Some express support for a value added tax (VAT) or other system. The proposed ideas are as varied as our state, but the one thing they all have in common is the belief the current tax code is completely broken and beyond repair. Unfortunately, before we can move forward to adopting any of these exciting possibilities, we have to get rid of the current tax code. History has taught us that if we do not impose a deadline and terminate the tax code by a certain date, we will never get to the fundamental tax overhaul that is so desperately needed. The Tax Code Termination Act, of which I am a co-sponsor, is based upon the same premise as the Base Closure and Realignment Commission (BRAC) that closed unnecessary military installations. It will sunset the current tax code and create a commission charged with reporting to Congress reform options. All ideas would be on the table. In addition to the flat tax, Fair Tax and other ideas, it would also determine if tax systems in use in other nations could provide a more efficient and fair method of taxation here at home. I believe the Tax Code Termination Act is the first step our nation must take toward fundamental, long-overdue tax reform. It's time for our nation to implement a bold and ambitious tax agenda for both the short and long term future of our country. Working together, I am confident we can lower the tax burden in future years and move our nation toward a tax system which makes us competitive in the global economy. (This oped began running in South Carolina newspapers on April 15, 2008.)
04.10.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in favor of the Foreclosure Prevention Act of 2008. The Senate approved the measure 88-12. “While not a perfect package, this bill will hopefully provide short-term relief to homeowners facing foreclosure and flexibility to lenders to renegotiate loan terms,” said Graham. “Additionally it provides incentives for homebuyers to help stimulate the housing market.” The legislation includes the following provisions: A $7,000 tax credit, spread over two years, for Americans who purchase a foreclosed home A standard property tax deduction for taxpayers who do not itemize on their returns Over $10 billion in bond authority that could be used for subprime loan refinancing, mortgages for first-time home buyers, or multifamily rental housing Extension – from two years to four years – of a provision that allows corporations to apply current losses to previous profits and receive applicable tax refunds An additional $180 million for foreclosure prevention counseling $4 billion for the Community Development Block Grant program The bill must now be passed by the House of Representatives. ####
04.08.2008	Senate Armed Services Committee April 8, 2008 SENATOR LEVIN: Senator Graham? SENATOR GRAHAM: Thank you, both of you, well done. You know, according to some, we should fire you. It sounds like, that everything is just -- really nothing good has happened in the last year and this is a hopeless endeavor. Well, I beg to differ. If I could promote you to five stars, I would. And if I could -- I don't know where to send you. You've been to every bad place there is to go, so I'd send you to a good place, Ambassador Crocker. I cannot tell you how proud I am of both of you. And let's start this with kind of a 30,000-foot assessment. The surge, General Petraeus, was a corrective action -- is that fair to say? GENERAL PETRAEUS: That's correct, Senator. GRAHAM: The reason it was a corrective action is between the fall of Baghdad and January of 2007, all of the trend lines were going in the wrong way: economic stagnation, political stagnation, increased proliferation of violence. Therefore, something had to be done, and that something was called a surge. Now, I would just ask the American people and my colleagues to evaluate fairly from January 2007 to July 2008, and see what's happened: The challenges are real, but there are things that have happened in that period of time that need to be understood as being beneficial to this country, that came at a heavy price. And Al Qaida cannot stand the surge. If you put a list of people who wanted us to leave, the number one group would be Al Qaida, because you've been kicking them all over Iraq. Now, the reason they came to Iraq is why, General Petraeus? PETRAEUS: That Al Qaida came to Iraq , sir? GRAHAM: Yes. PETRAEUS: To establish a base in the heart of the Arab world, in the heart of the Mideast. GRAHAM: Are they closer to their goal after the surge, or further away? PETRAEUS: Further away, Senator. GRAHAM: OK. What's the -- if you had to pick one thing to tell the American people that was the biggest success of the surge, what would it be? PETRAEUS: Probably Anbar province and/or just the general progress against Al Qaida. GRAHAM: Would it be the fact that Muslims tasted Al Qaida life in Iraq and Iraqi Muslims joined with us to fight Al Qaida? PETRAEUS: I think the shift in Sunni Arabs against Al Qaida has been very, very significant. The rejection of the indiscriminate violence, the extremist ideology and even, really, the oppressive practices associated with Al Qaida is, again, a very, very significant change. GRAHAM: Is it fair to say that when Muslims will stand by us and fight against bin Laden, his agents and sympathizers, we're safer? PETRAEUS: Absolutely. GRAHAM: Ambassador Crocker, what is Iran up to in Iraq? CROCKER: Senator, I described what I believe to be an effort at Lebanizatian through the backing of different militia groups. GRAHAM: OK. Let's stop there. Lebanon kicked Syria out a few years ago, and they tried to create a democracy, some form of democracy. Hezbollah, backed by Iran , had a say in that endeavor. Is that correct? CROCKER: That's correct, sir. GRAHAM: And they launched an attack from Lebanon against Israel at the time the United Nations was about to sanction Iran for their nuclear endeavors. Is that correct? CROCKER: I believe so, sir. GRAHAM: So is it fair to say that, from an Iranian point of view, one of their biggest nightmares would be a functioning democracy in Lebanon, a functioning representative government in Iraq on their borders? CROCKER: Certainly, their behavior would indicate that that may be the case. You make an important point because we look at Iraq as a nation in its own terms. The region looks at it a little bit differently. Iran and Syria have been cooperating over Lebanon since the early 1980s. Over a quarter of a century they have worked together against the Lebanese and against our interests. They're using that same partnership in Iraq, in my view, although the weights are reversed With Iran having the greater weight and Syria the lesser. But they are working in tandem together against us and against a stable Iraqi state. GRAHAM: If I can walk through what these laws mean to me, and this is just my opinion: Provincial elections in October are important to me because it means that the Sunnis understand that participating in representative government seems to be in their interest; therefore, they're going to vote in October of 2008 and they boycotted in 2005. Is that correct? CROCKER: That's one of the reasons they're important, yes. GRAHAM: OK. So the Sunnis are going to come in -- by the millions, we anticipate to send representatives to Baghdad or to the provinces rather than sending bombs, is that correct? CROCKER: That is what I would expect, yes. GRAHAM: OK. Now the reason the surge has been successful to me, General Petraeus, is that the Anbar province has been liberated from Al Qaida, but we've had a reduction in sectarian violence. Is that true? PETRAEUS: That is true. GRAHAM: OK. Now, this breathing space that we've been urging to have happened to have better security, from my opinion, has produced economic results not known before January, 2007. Is that correct? The economy is improving? PETRAEUS: That is correct. GRAHAM: The Iraqis will be paying more over time to bear the burden of fighting for their freedom? PETRAEUS: That's correct. GRAHAM: They will be fighting more to bear the burden of their freedom. Is that correct? PETRAEUS: Correct. GRAHAM: Is there any way Iraq could be a failed state and not affect our national security? PETRAEUS: No, sir. GRAHAM: What would happen if the policy of the United States began January, 2007 to remove a brigade a month in Baghdad -- I mean, of Iraq ? What would be the military consequences to such an endeavor, in your opinion, if we announced, as a nation, we're going to withdraw a brigade out of Iraq every month? PETRAEUS: Sir, it clearly would depend on the conditions at that time. If the conditions were good and quite good, then that might be doable. GRAHAM: At this point in time, does that seem to be a responsible position to take, given what you know about Iraq , to make that announcement now? PETRAEUS: Well, Senator, again, I have advocated conditions-based reductions, not a timetable. War is not a linear phenomenon; it's a calculus, not arithmetic. And that is why, again, I have recommended conditions-based reductions following the completion of the surge forces drawdown. LEVIN: Senator Graham, thank you. ######
04.08.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – The 362,000-member National Taxpayers Union (NTU) today announced that U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is one of the few dozen lawmakers in the Senate and House of Representatives to win the 2007 ‘Taxpayers’ Friend Award.’ “While many Members of Congress talked about reducing the size of government last year, Lindsey Graham backed up those words with votes,” said NTU President Duane Parde. “This award proves that Graham is a staunch ally we can count on in our battle to restore fiscal responsibility to Washington .” The award was presented to Senators who achieved an ‘A’ grade in NTU’s annual Rating of Congress. The Rating, which is based on every roll call vote affecting fiscal policy, assigns a ‘Taxpayer Score’ to each Senator that indicates their support for reducing or controlling federal spending, taxes, debt, and regulation. For 2007, 182 Senate votes were selected. “By consistently voting to reduce federal spending, taxes, and the debt, Lindsey Graham has led by example in the fight to ease the burden on taxpayers everywhere,” said Parde. “This is an achievement for which he should be proud.” From 2006 to 2007, the average pro-taxpayer score in the Senate fell 11 points to 37 percent. “If every Member of Congress had voted as responsibly as Lindsey Graham did in 2007, Americans could have enjoyed much lower taxes and less waste in government,” Parde concluded. “Overburdened taxpayers in South Carolina and across the nation owe Lindsey Graham a debt of gratitude for his work on their behalf. He has truly earned the title ‘Taxpayers’ Friend.’” NTU is a nonpartisan, nonprofit citizen group founded in 1969 to work for lower taxes, smaller government, and economic freedom at all levels. ######
04.07.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 When Gen. David Petraeus testifies before Congress tomorrow, he will step into an American political landscape dramatically different from the one he faced when he last spoke on Capitol Hill seven months ago. This time Gen. Petraeus returns to Washington having led one of the most remarkably successful military operations in American history. His antiwar critics, meanwhile, face a crisis of credibility – having confidently predicted the failure of the surge, and been proven decidedly wrong. As late as last September, advocates of retreat insisted that the surge would fail to bring about any meaningful reduction in violence in Iraq . MoveOn.org accused Gen. Petraeus of "cooking the books," while others claimed that his testimony, offering evidence of early progress, required "the willing suspension of disbelief." Gen. Petraeus will be the first to acknowledge that the gains in Iraq have come at a heavy price in blood and treasure. We mourn the loss and pain of the civilians and service members who have been killed and wounded in Iraq , but adamantly believe these losses have served a noble cause. No one can deny the dramatic improvements in security in Iraq achieved by Gen. Petraeus, the brave troops under his command, and the Iraqi Security Forces. From June 2007 through February 2008, deaths from ethno-sectarian violence in Baghdad have fallen approximately 90%. American casualties have also fallen sharply, down by 70%. Al Qaeda in Iraq has been swept from its former strongholds in Anbar province and Baghdad . The liberation of these areas was made possible by the surge, which empowered Iraqi Muslims to reject the Islamist extremists who had previously terrorized them into submission. Any time Muslims take up arms against Osama bin Laden, his agents and sympathizers, the world is a safer place. In the past seven months, the other main argument offered by critics of the Petraeus strategy has also begun to collapse: namely, the alleged lack of Iraqi political progress. Antiwar forces last September latched onto the Iraqi government's failure to pass "benchmark" legislation, relentlessly hammering Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki as hopelessly sectarian and unwilling to confront Iranian-backed Shiite militias. Here as well, however, the critics in Washington have been proven wrong. In recent months, the Iraqi government, encouraged by our Ambassador in Iraq , Ryan Crocker, has passed benchmark legislation on such politically difficult issues as de-Baathification, amnesty, the budget and provincial elections. After boycotting the last round of elections, Sunnis now stand ready to vote by the millions in the provincial elections this autumn. The Iraqi economy is growing at a brisk 7% and inflation is down dramatically. And, in launching the recent offensive in Basra , Mr. Maliki has demonstrated that he has the political will to take on the Shiite militias and criminal gangs, which he recently condemned as "worse than al Qaeda." Of course, while the gains we have achieved in Iraq are meaningful and undeniable, so are the challenges ahead. Iraqi Security Forces have grown in number and shown significant improvement, but the Basra operation showed they still have a way to go. Al Qaeda has been badly weakened by the surge, but it still retains a significant foothold in the northern city of Mosul , where Iraqi and coalition forces are involved in a campaign to destroy it. Most importantly, Iran also continues to wage a vicious and escalating proxy war against the Iraqi government and the U.S. military. The Iranians have American blood on their hands. They are responsible, through the extremist agents they have trained and equipped, for the deaths of hundreds of our men and women in uniform. Increasingly, our fight in Iraq cannot be separated from our larger struggle to prevent the emergence of an Iranian-dominated Middle East . These continuing threats from Iran and al Qaeda underscore why we believe that decisions about the next steps in Iraq should be determined by the recommendations of Gen. Petraeus, based on conditions on the ground. It is also why it is imperative to be cautious about the speed and scope of any troop withdrawals in the months ahead, rather than imposing a political timeline for troop withdrawal against the recommendation of our military. Unable to make the case that the surge has failed, antiwar forces have adopted a new set of talking points, emphasizing the "costs" of our involvement in Iraq , hoping to exploit Americans' current economic anxieties. Today's antiwar politicians have effectively turned John F. Kennedy's inaugural address on its head, urging Americans to refuse to pay any price, or bear any burden, to assure the survival of liberty. This is wrong. The fact is that America 's prosperity at home and security abroad are bound together. We will not fare well in a world in which al Qaeda and Iran can claim that they have defeated us in Iraq and are ascendant. There is no question the war in Iraq – like the Cold War, World War II and every other conflict we have fought in our history – costs money. But as great as the costs of this struggle have been, so too are the dividends to our national security from a successful outcome, with a functioning, representative Iraqi government and a stabilized Middle East . The costs of abandoning Iraq to our enemies, conversely, would be enormous, not only in dollars, but in human lives and in the security and freedom of our nation. Indeed, had we followed the path proposed by antiwar groups and retreated in defeat, the war would have been lost, emboldening and empowering violent jihadists for generations to come. The success we are now achieving also has consequences far beyond Iraq 's borders in the larger, global struggle against Islamist extremism. Thanks to the surge, Iraq today is looking increasingly like Osama bin Laden's worst nightmare: an Arab country, in the heart of the Middle East , in which hundreds of thousands of Muslims – both Sunni and Shiite – are rising up and fighting, shoulder to shoulder with American soldiers, against al Qaeda and its hateful ideology. It is unfortunate that so many opponents of the surge still refuse to acknowledge the gains we have achieved in Iraq . When Gen. Petraeus testifies this week, however, the American people will have a clear choice as we weigh the future of our fight there: between the general who is leading us to victory, and the critics who spent the past year predicting defeat. The following oped by Senators Lindsey Graham and Joe Lieberman first appeared in the Wall Street Journal on April 7, 2008.
04.04.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the 40th anniversary of the death of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Graham said: “Dr. King’s legacy is secure in American history and he will be viewed by generations to come as transforming our nation for the better. At great personal risk, both to his family and himself, he challenged the status quo of segregation. Through his words and deeds, Dr. King transformed a nation. His legacy and works will be celebrated as long as our country remains free. Dr. King is a true American hero.” #####
04.03.2008	Wes HIckman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi’s warning to General David Petraeus “not to put a shine on recent events” in Iraq. Graham said: “Speaker Pelosi’s warning to General Petraeus about his testimony being ‘too shiny’ says more about her than it does about him. “General Petraeus has been forward-deployed for over four years since 9/11 and is one of the most talented, respected military commanders in our nation’s history. I’m confident he will tell us about the gains that have been achieved and the challenges which lie ahead. That is his duty to his country and the troops under his command. “I have no confidence Speaker Pelosi will ever accept anything coming out of Iraq other than a loss. She and other Democratic leaders long ago declared the war lost and have built a political model for the next election around that outcome. It’s sad the accomplishments made by our men and women serving in Iraq cannot be acknowledged. “Speaker Pelosi seems to be more concerned about the outcome of the next election than receiving accurate information from a distinguished military leader like General Petraeus.” ######
03.31.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on South Carolina and REAL ID. Graham said: “I am pleased South Carolina has been granted an extension by Secretary Chertoff regarding REAL ID compliance. The decision was more than justified. “The Governor has done an excellent job in explaining his concerns to federal officials, many of which I share. Our state already meets 16 of the 18 compliance benchmarks – about 90 percent -- called for in REAL ID. Governor Sanford’s efforts to reform our state drivers’ license program has made the system more secure and efficient. “REAL ID grew out of recommendations made by the 9-11 Commission over the need for more secure forms of identification. It was viewed as an effective means of cracking down on the use of fraudulent documents like those used by the 9/11 hijackers. In addition, REAL ID would make it more difficult for illegal immigrants to obtain employment by tightening acceptable forms of identification. “I will do my part to help ensure the federal government addresses the unfunded mandate burden imposed on the states by REAL ID. Governors and state legislatures across the country are rightfully concerned about these requirements. “However, in this age of international terrorism we must secure the homeland. We need better identification to protect air travel, access to federal buildings, institutions, and other high value terrorist targets. “I believe we can accommodate the legitimate national security needs of our nation with the concerns raised by Governor Sanford and the state legislature.” #####
03.31.2008	Wes HIckman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to news the South Carolina Electric and Gas Company (SCE&G) and Santee Cooper have submitted an application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to build and operate up to two new nuclear electric generating units. Graham said: “I’m very pleased and excited to hear SCE&G and Santee Cooper have applied to construct and operate two new nuclear power plants in South Carolina . “The additional use of nuclear power is one of the major steps we must take to become more energy independent as a nation. “The benefits of nuclear power are clear: It is reliable, efficient, and safe. It helps lessen our dependence on foreign oil. It is an environmentally-friendly energy source which does not pollute our air or produce carbon emissions. “I strongly support this application. Construction and operation of new nuclear power plants will provide South Carolina with abundant, affordable power for decades to come.” #####
03.24.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today made this statement. "Yesterday, I misspoke when I said we will be, ‘somewhere around 100,000 troops’ in Iraq by the end of 2008. I think we will be at pre-surge levels, about 130,000 troops, at years end. I have consistently said any changes or further reductions in troops should be based upon conditions on the ground and the advice of our commanders.” ######
03.18.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) signed on to an amicus curiae brief to the United States Supreme Court in the case of the District of Columbia v. Heller. Oral arguments in the case were heard in the Supreme Court earlier today. The brief was signed by Vice President Dick Cheney, 55 U.S. Senators, and 250 members of the U.S. House of Representatives. Graham made these comments on District of Columbia v. Heller. “This case involves nothing more than the right of law abiding persons to keep common handguns and usable firearms for lawful self-defense in the home. “Congress has historically viewed the Second Amendment as protecting from infringement the right of the people at large to keep and bear arms. It has further regarded ordinary, commonly-possessed rifles, handguns, and shotguns to be constitutionally protected firearms. It has also passed regulations for engaging in firearms businesses and to require background checks on firearms transferees, and has restricted certain dangerous categories of persons from possession of firearms. None of these laws is called into question by the lower court’s limited holding. “The Court should affirm the decision of the Court of Appeals.” ##### BACKGROUND The Supreme Court’s consideration of the case marks the first time since 1939 that the Court will rule on a Second Amendment challenge to a firearm law. The Court’s decision is expected to have broad and long-lasting ramifications on gun ownership and Second Amendment rights. The District of Columbia has some of the most restrictive gun laws of any city in the United States. In 1976, the City Council banned handguns and required rifles and shotguns to be registered, stored unloaded and either locked or unassembled. Six District of Columbia residents sued the city over this firearms prohibition. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit ruled in March 2007 that the District of Columbia’s gun control laws violate individual Second Amendment rights. The majority opinion stated, “Section 7-2507.02, like the bar of carrying a pistol within a home, amounts to a complete prohibition on the lawful use of handguns for self-defense. As such we hold it is unconstitutional.”
03.13.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham’s (R-South Carolina) amendment to the Budget Resolution to extend the 2001 and 2003 Bush tax cuts was defeated today in the Senate. The vote was 47-52. “One of our top priorities should be for Congress to extend the Bush tax cuts,” said Graham. “Tax relief has proven to be very beneficial to our nation's economic health. Needless to say, I’m very disappointed a majority of the Senate did not vote for my amendment. “Do we really want to raise taxes on Americans who are already struggling to make ends meet?” questioned Graham. “Millions of taxpayers and businesses will see their tax bills literally increase overnight if we don’t make the Bush tax cuts permanent. We will drive companies offshore and create fewer jobs here at home.” Graham noted that if the tax cuts are not made permanent 116 million taxpayers will see their tax bill increase an average of $1,800. The Graham amendment makes room in the budget to make permanent: The current marginal tax rates of 35, 33, 28, and 25 percent. If they are allowed to expire on December 31, 2010 the new rates will be 39.6, 36, 31 and 28 percent. Lower rates on capital gains and dividends. College tuition deduction. Includes the Kyl language on estate tax relief – a $5 million exemption with a 35 percent top rate. “Our refusal to extend the Bush tax cuts means there may be a major tax increase on millions of hard-working Americans,” said Graham. “At a time when people need more money for their families and businesses at home, we should have made the Bush tax cuts permanent.” #####
03.12.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced an amendment to the Senate Budget Resolution to extend the 2001 and 2003 Bush tax cuts. A Senate vote on the Graham Amendment is expected on Thursday. “Do we really want to raise taxes on Americans who are already struggling to make ends meet?” questioned Graham. “Millions of taxpayers and businesses will see their tax bills literally increase overnight if we don’t make the Bush tax cuts permanent. We will drive companies offshore and create fewer jobs here at home.” Graham noted that if the tax cuts are not made permanent 116 million taxpayers will see their tax bill increase an average of $1,800. The Graham amendment makes room in the budget to make permanent: The current marginal tax rates of 35, 33, 28, and 25 percent. If they are allowed to expire December 31, 2010 the new rates will be 39.6, 36, 31 and 28 percent. Lower rates on capital gains and dividends. College tuition deduction Includes the Kyl language on estate tax relief – a $5 million exemption with a 35 percent top rate. “If we don’t pass my amendment there is going to be a major tax increase coming to millions of hard-working Americans,” said Graham. “At a time when people need more money for their families and businesses at home, it’s time to make the Bush tax cuts permanent.” #####
03.07.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been named a ‘Friend of the Coast’ by the American Shore & Beach Preservation Association (ASBPA). “The Senator has proven himself as a champion of coastal issues by attaining funding and authorization for beach nourishment projects at Folly Beach , Edisto Island , Pawley’s Island, and the Grand Strand,” said Dr. Tim Kana, ASBPA Board member from South Carolina . “The Senator is a strong voice for the coast.” ASBPA also acknowledged Graham for his work in authorizing language in the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 to construct storm water outfalls in Surfside Beach , Myrtle Beach, and North Myrtle Beach to improve water quality. The group noted the projects will have a positive effect on the region’s economy. The award was presented to Graham at the group’s 2008 Coastal Summit held last week in Washington . #####
03.05.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on comments by Senators Hillary Clinton (D-New York) and Barack Obama (D-Illinois). “Senator Clinton made an interesting statement last night. She said, “We're ready to end the war in Iraq and win the war in Afghanistan .” No one doubts we must win in Afghanistan , the country that gave rise to the Taliban and Al Qaeda. But Senator Clinton’s Iraq statement about “ending” the Iraq war was quite troubling. “I realize the political left in our country does not want to hear the word ‘win’ mentioned in a conversation about Iraq, but our own national security interests require us to ‘win,’ not simply ‘end.’ It really is a bit unnerving to me that Senator Clinton would not understand consequences of losing in Iraq . “ Iraq is clearly a central battlefront in the War on Terror. Winning is not only now possible, but necessary. “Last night, Senator Obama eloquently described how a grandfather living in Uganda was following the American presidential election. He was right. The world is watching and that audience includes some of the most vicious killers known to mankind. Al Qaeda is taking measure of each and every word uttered. “While Al Qaeda has suffered from the surge of troops into Iraq , they are inspired when they hear American leaders discussing how they plan to leave the central battlefront in the War on Terror. Here’s to hoping that neither Senator Clinton nor Obama give them inspiring moments in the weeks and months ahead.” #####
03.03.2008	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the U.S. Trade Representative Susan C. Schwab has requested settlement dispute consultations with China at the World Trade Organization (WTO) over China’s treatment of U.S. suppliers of financial information services. “American financial services firms should have the same access to China’s financial markets as Chinese firms have in the United States ,” said Graham. “The Chinese government has erected significant barriers aimed at restricting the ability of American financial service firms to compete in an open and fair manner in China .” Graham, a long-time critic of Chinese trading practices and one of the leaders in the U.S. Senate to end Chinese currency manipulation, noted that the Chinese have tilted the playing field against American providers. In 2006, China implemented regulations that prohibited foreign financial information suppliers from establishing local operations and required American companies to work through official-Chinese government designated firms. “Market access and national treatment for U.S. financial services in accessing China’s markets is not merely a matter of fairness, it will create new opportunities for American firms and increase global economic growth,” said Graham. “Given the competitive advantage we enjoy in research, product development, and regulatory structure, a freer market in China will bolster the U.S. economy. “When it comes to trade, China makes promises to the U.S. and world community and then goes about finding creative ways not to keep them,” said Graham. “I appreciate the work of the USTR in this matter and her efforts to hold China accountable for their unfair trade practices.” ######
02.27.2008	WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the life and death of William F. Buckley, Jr. “I had the great fortune of meeting Mr. Buckley on several occasions. One could immediately recognize his keen intellect and sense of purpose. I appreciate and admire his decades of work in pursuit of conservative government. “With Mr. Buckley’s passing, our nation has lost one of its truly great political thinkers. I send my deepest condolences to the Buckley family, friends, and colleagues at this difficult time.” ######
02.15.2008	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been recognized as a True Blue member of the Senate by FRC Action and Focus on the Family Action for his unwavering commitment to the family. The award honors member of the House and Senate who have exhibited extraordinary leadership and commitment to the defense of family, faith, and freedom, according to FRC Action’s new scorecard. The scorecard covers Senate votes during the 1st session of the 110th Congress. Recipients of the award voted consistently for pro-life and pro-family issues. The votes included efforts to defend grassroots organizations efforts to influence public policy, health care for unborn children, confirming Judge Leslie Southwick to the U.S. Court of Appeals and federal hate crimes legislation. “The Members of the 110th Congress who received this award have been consistent, stalwart allies of American families,” said FRC Action President Tony Perkins. “These Members are to be commended for supporting public policy that values human life, protects our religious liberties, and upholds the institutions of marriage and the family.” “I applaud Senator Graham for defending pro-family and pro-life policies that have been under attack this past year,” said Perkins. “Values voters should be encouraged by these Members who have shown a commitment to protecting and strengthening the family.” To order a copy of the Vote Scorecard, visit FRC Action’s website at www.frcaction.org ####
01.28.2008	WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made these comments on President Bush’s State of the Union Address. Economy and Earmarks: "Two major items Congress should focus on if we want to ensure a strong economy in future years are making the Bush tax cuts permanent and getting a grip on how we spend the taxpayer’s hard-earned dollar. "I hope Congress will join with the President to make the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent. If the tax cuts are not made permanent, 116 million Americans will see their taxes rise by an average of $1,800. Making the tax cuts permanent will help business and individuals plan for the future and know what their long-term tax liability will be. It’s time to get this done. "President Bush is also right to call for a reduction in both the number and dollar amount of congressional earmarks. While I don’t have a problem with Congress having a say in how the federal government spends money, I also believe the earmarking process has gotten way out of hand. "When Congress is spending $250 million on a bridge to serve 50 people, it’s pretty obvious the process is broken. Hopefully, the President’s proposal will help get us back on the right track when it comes to spending the taxpayer’s dollar." Iraq and the Global War on Terror: "The situation in Iraq looks quite different than it did one year ago. "At that time, many in the Congress were fighting against the surge. Some were preparing to say the war in Iraq was lost while others were preparing for an American defeat. Thanks to a new strategy, new commander, and the hard work of our brave men and women in uniform, we have seen a phenomenal turnaround in Iraq. "While there remains more work to be done, now is the time for Republicans and Democrats to embrace the positive effects of the surge and build upon the successes that have been achieved. We should also offer our thanks and appreciation to our American troops and commanders. They have truly made us proud." Graham on First Lieutenant Andrew Kinard (USMC) in Attendance as a Guest of the First Lady "The First Lady could not have found a more deserving young Marine to honor than Andrew Kinard. Andrew represents the bravery of all of our men and women serving in Iraq. He is a wonderful young man who makes us all proud." #####
12.19.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) last night voted against the 3,417 page, $550 billion omnibus spending bill to fund the federal government. The legislation passed the Senate by a vote of 76-17 and awaits action by the House of Representatives. President Bush is expected to sign it into law if it reaches his desk. “Simply put, the downside was greater than the upside,” said Graham. “After careful consideration I came to the conclusion there were some worthwhile provisions, but just not enough to justify a vote in support. Graham said changes in border security provisions and earmarking were major reasons for his no vote. Secure Fence Act Undermined by the Omnibus: Graham noted the omnibus made significant changes to the Secure Fence Act which was signed into law last year. Earlier this year, Graham secured $3 billion in emergency funding through the Graham Amendment for improved border security and additional border fencing as called for in the Secure Fence Act. The omnibus, while providing much of the funding sought in the Graham Amendment ($2.7 billion), institutes bureaucratic and policy changes which will make it more difficult to actually construct the fence. Among the changes are removing requirements for double-layer fencing and replacing it with single-layer fencing. The omnibus also creates new bureaucratic hurdles including additional reporting requirements from the Department of Homeland Security and approval of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees before funds can be spent on the border fence. “The legislation makes changes in the planned construction of the more than 700 miles of fencing along our southern border which are troubling” said Graham. “In the name of providing flexibility, I think we may end up slowing construction. I want funding for the fence and the ability to build the fence with limited interference.” “In the age of terrorism, regaining operational control of our nation’s borders is a national security issue of the highest order,” said Graham. “The term ‘operational control’ is a military term, and I look at this effort to secure our border as a military operation. If we are serious about border security, our actions need to match our words. When it comes to securing our border, the omnibus does not accomplish those objectives.” Earmarks ‘Air Dropped’ into the Omnibus: Graham also expressed concern about the sheer number and manner in which some earmarks were included. The legislation contained over 9,000 earmarks, including 300 which were ‘air-dropped’ into the final legislation. ‘Air dropping’ means these earmarks were not passed by either the House or Senate during previous consideration of spending bills. They also were not subject to a point of order, amendment or debate on the floor, or questioning of their merit. “Earmarks are a legitimate way to ensure funding is included for projects important in our states, but the process must be clear, transparent, and not abused,” said Graham. “The omnibus did not meet that standard. The final legislation included several hundred earmarks which were air dropped into the legislation at the last possible minute. We can and must do better.” Graham noted the positive aspects of the legislation including the overall spending number was less than previous versions and inclusion of the McConnell Amendment providing $70 billion in funding for operations in Iraq. “The McConnell Amendment was a major victory for the President’s policies in Iraq,” said Graham. “General Petraeus and all under his command have earned the right to continue pushing forward in Iraq. It would have been a huge mistake to withhold or not provide them funding. Our troops now have the funding they need without strings attached. I’m pleased we passed the McConnell Amendment and also beat back several Democratic attempts to micromanage the Iraq war.” #####
12.19.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Last week, the U.S. Senate overwhelmingly approved the Food and Energy Security Act of 2007 (Farm Bill). U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham, the only member from South Carolina who serves on the Agriculture Committee in either the House or the Senate, voted in support of the legislation which passed 79-14. Among the major features: • Extends commodity programs for producers; • Reauthorizes conservation, agriculture research, rural development, energy, and food assistance programs; • Establishes incentives for farmers to invest in the production and conversion of renewable biomass, such as cellulosic ethanol, to energy; • Establishes a Rural Collaborative Investment program that would bolster economic development in rural regions by providing grants for projects created by local government, business and nonprofit organizations; • Reauthorizes key programs such as the Emergency Food Assistance Program, the Fruit and Vegetable Program, the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, the Wetlands Reserve Program, foreign food assistance programs, and rural programs such as community facility funding, broadband service, rural/waste water grants. “I know how important these programs are to our state’s farmers and communities,” said Graham. “Agriculture is the second largest industry in South Carolina and our rural communities depend on the development funds included in this bill,” said Graham. “I am pleased we were able to come together and approve a farm bill that maintains current farm programs and includes increased funding for nutrition, specialty crops, conservation and energy programs.” “I am especially pleased by the provisions relating to energy programs and our farming community,” said Graham. “This bill takes important strides towards energy independence and the protection of our environment through the authorization of energy programs that build on the potential of cellulose-based ethanol as an alternative energy source.” Graham worked to include additional grant programs that could benefit research and training being conducted in South Carolina. These include expanding research conducted on forage-fed beef systems and a New Era Rural Technology Program that would provide grant money to community colleges for training an agriculture workforce in bio-energy, and the pulp and paper industry. The legislation also includes a Graham-backed provision that would provide economic adjustment assistance in the amount of 4 cents per pound to textile manufacturers for the modernization of equipment and operations. Graham noted there are several reform provisions in the bill such as a reduction in payment limits over the life of the bill that would prohibit payments to producers whose adjusted gross income exceeds $750,000 and who earn less than two-thirds of their income from farming. Under current law, payments are prohibited to producers with incomes above $2.5 million and who make less than three-fourths of their income from farming. The Senate bill would also ban some farmers from collecting payments for multiple farm businesses. “This farm bill is not perfect and everyone would admit that there are some things in this bill that they don’t like,” said Graham. “However, I am proud that through much negotiation an acceptable middle ground was reached. As a matter of national security, we must support programs that will ensure a reliable and constant food supply for all Americans.” In addition to broad support in the Senate, the legislation is also backed by various farming groups including the American Farm Bureau, South Carolina Farm Bureau, the South Carolina Department of Agriculture, the National Cotton Council, the South Carolina Cotton Farmers, the Southern Peanut Farmers Federation, and the American Soybean Association. “Farmers are in the midst of planning for the new crop year and are at a distinct disadvantage in not knowing how farm programs will be structured for the coming year,” said Hugh Weathers, South Carolina Commissioner of Agriculture. “We appreciate Senator Graham's efforts in securing passage of the Senate Bill and look forward to following the process of negotiating a Farm Bill that will provide the security farmers need as they begin planning their intentions for 2008." The bill will now go to conference committee with the House of Representatives. ####
12.18.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on comments by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nevada) who criticized Iraq war supporters for their “consistent support of a failed strategy that has kept out troops mired in an endless civil war.” The Majority Leader made his comments after an advertisement featuring Graham began running in South Carolina. The advertisement referenced Reid’s April comment claiming the Iraq war ‘is lost.’ Graham said: “Senator Reid was wrong to say the Iraq war was ‘lost’ before the surge even began. Now he is wrong to continue claiming the surge has not been successful. Frankly, he’s trying to deny the obvious. “The surge has been one of the most successful counter-insurgency military operations in American history. “If we had mistakenly followed Senator Reid’s advice, Al Qaeda would now have a safe haven in a chaotic Iraq and moderate forces there would be under siege. “Thanks to a successful surge, Al Qaeda has been severely pounded and is now on the run. Simply put, the surge has been Al Qaeda’s worst nightmare. The better security situation on the ground has provided breathing room for the forces of moderation in Iraq to begin reconciling at the local level while Iraqi security forces continue to improve by the day. “There is no doubt our success has come at a high price. Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines continue to serve honorably and every success we have in Iraq only comes about because of their heroic sacrifices. “It’s about time Senator Reid gives our troops the credit they deserve for their historic achievements.” #####
12.18.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (SC) and Congressman Gresham Barrett (SC, 03) today urged the Department of Energy (DOE) to come to a final agreement with Aiken, Barnwell, and Allendale counties on a proposed Payment-in-Lieu-of-Taxes (PILT) for federal Savannah River Site (SRS) land within the respective counties. If the agreement is accepted, the counties of Aiken, Allendale and Barnwell will receive a revised PILT from DOE. “I hope that the proposed PILT hastens movement toward a revised agreement between DOE and Aiken County,” said Congressman Gresham Barrett. “The local and the federal government have been great partners as it relates to SRS, and I am encouraged by the fact that both understand the importance of reaching an agreement that is fair and just for all parties. I look forward to making the formal announcement on the renewed agreement at SRS with DOE in the near future.” “I am pleased at the progress all parties have made in negotiating a new PILT agreement,” said Graham. “The counties are to be commended for working with DOE to negotiate an agreement fair to all. I look forward to working with DOE and the counties to bring discussions to a positive conclusion.” Aiken, Allendale and Barnwell County Councils entered into an agreement with DOE/SRS in 1991 on conditions that each county would receive an annual PILT for the county acreage value covered within SRS land. At the initial time of the negotiations, it was agreed that subsequent reviews were to be conducted to reevaluate the value of the SRS land. Graham and Barrett hope a formal announcement with DOE officials on the agreed PILT can be made in January. ####
12.14.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced he will oppose efforts to apply the Army Field Manual to the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). A provision added by Democrats in a House-Senate conference committee on the Intelligence Authorization Bill for FY 2008 would require all American interrogators – including the CIA -- to abide by the Army Field Manual. The House of Representatives passed the provision yesterday by a vote of 222-199. President Bush has threatened to veto the legislation over the provision. Graham is one of several Senators who have placed a hold on the legislation and made clear they will strongly oppose it should it come up for a Senate vote. “It would be a colossal mistake for us to apply the Army Field Manual to the operations of the CIA,” said Graham. “I’ve been fully briefed on the current CIA program to interrogate high value targets. It is aggressive, effective, lawful and in compliance with our legal obligations. The Democratic provision will destroy the CIA program. “I believe in flexibility for the CIA program within the boundaries of current law,” continued Graham. “The CIA must have the ability to gather intelligence for the War on Terror. In this new war, knowledge of the enemy and its plan is vitally important and the Democratic provision will weaken our intelligence gathering operations.” #####
12.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishp (864-250-1417) Washington – Smuggling illegal aliens across the U.S. border would become a felony offense punishable by five years in prison – per victim – under legislation introduced today by Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC). Under current law, alien smuggling is a misdemeanor. Each year, between 700,000 to 800,000 people enter the United States illegally, according to the Pew Research Center. A large number of these illegal crossings are organized by criminal smugglers, yet this year there have been only 2,661 prosecutions under the federal alien smuggling statute. The Alien Smuggling and Terrorism Prevention Law Enforcement Act of 2007 (S. 2463) amends the current alien smuggling statute to make it a felony offense to smuggle, recruit, transport or harbor illegal aliens. The Bayh-Graham legislation includes even stiffer maximum penalties for those who smuggle for financial gain (10 years); for repeat offenders (15 years); for cases involving physical assault (20 years); terrorism facilitation (30 years) and kidnapping, rape or attempted murder (life). “Alien smuggling is a transnational crime problem that poses a significant risk to national security and public safety,” Senator Bayh said. “Those who break our immigration laws for financial gain deserve more than a slap on the wrist. This legislation sends a message to U.S. attorneys that we want these offenders federally prosecuted to the maximum extent of the law.” “This is an area of immigration reform where the Congress can come together and find common ground,” Senator Graham said. “I don’t think there’s any question the existing penalties for alien smuggling are insufficient. Our legislation will give prosecutors and law enforcement stronger tools to crack down on the terrible trade in human cargo. It will also create a deterrent effect for smuggling people into the United States, particularly for those doing it for profit. The legislation passed the House in an overwhelming fashion. I’m hopeful we can get it to the president’s desk in short order.” It is estimated that the international alien smuggling and sex trafficking trade generates $9.5 billion for criminal organizations worldwide, and the profits are used to finance additional criminal enterprises, such as the trafficking of drugs, weapons or other contraband. Smugglers endanger the safety and lives of those who are seeking to enter our country by subjecting them to physical abuse, rape and subjected to deplorable and dangerous conditions by their smugglers. A companion version of the alien smuggling legislation authored by Congressman Baron Hill (D-IN) passed the House of Representatives in May by a vote of 412-0. ####
12.05.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Boumediene v. Bush and Al Odah v. U.S. in the U.S. Supreme Court. Earlier today Graham attended the Supreme Court oral arguments on these cases where lawyers for the detainees challenging their detention at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba argued their case. Graham played a key role in drafting the Military Commissions Act and authored a provision which denies detainees unfettered access to sue in federal court. He said: “I’m cautiously optimistic the Supreme Court will not strike down the Military Commissions Act and allow Al Qaeda members the unprecedented right to bring lawsuits in our federal court system. “Never in the history of warfare have enemy prisoners been able to bring lawsuits challenging their detention. Thousands of Germans and Japanese soldiers were captured and held by the military during World War II. Not one case was allowed in federal court where they were allowed to sue for their release. “I’m hopeful the Court will understand the Congress has spoken loud and clear on this matter. Before the MCA was signed into law, enemy combatants were filing frivolous suits requesting better mail delivery, more exercise, judge-supervised interrogation, Internet access, the right to view DVDs and alleging medical malpractice. “It would be a monumental mistake for the Supreme Court to give enemy combatants – members of Al Qaeda -- the same legal rights as a U.S. citizen. I hope the Court does not go down that road.” #####
12.04.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced legislation strengthening the rights of parents in the education of their children. “The rights of parents are under assault from school districts, teachers unions, and activist judges,” said Graham. “Parental rights do not and should not end at the schoolhouse door.” In November 2005, a group of California parents brought suit against their school district for not being fully informed about a questionnaire given to their children containing strong sexual and violent content. The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled against the parents claiming their rights do not, “extend beyond the threshold of the school door.” The court also stated that once parents choose to enroll their children in a particular educational program, they have no right to determine what information their children are exposed to at school, nor do they have the right to be the sole provider of sexual information to their children The Parents’ Rights Empowerment and Protection Act (PREP) seeks to address the problems with the Court’s ruling. The legislation: requires any educational institution receiving federal funds to obtain the affirmative, informed, written consent of the parent before requesting or conveying information to the child on matters related to sex or sexuality; creates a private right of action for parents if an educational institution violates the required consent provisions; temporarily cuts off federal funds for schools found to be in violation of this statute; and reaffirms parents are primarily responsible for the care, health, and education of their children. “It is unfortunate that this legislation is needed, but without it there is no way to correct an egregious court decision by the Ninth Circuit,” said Graham. “Eliminating parental input regarding public school decisions is a disaster for public schools. The last thing we need to do is to alienate or destroy parental involvement in public education.” U.S. Senators Sam Brownback (R-KS), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Jim DeMint (R-SC), John Ensign (R-NV), and James Inhofe (R-OK) have signed on as co-sponsors. The American Center for Law and Justice, Eagle Forum and Family Research Council have expressed support for the legislation. ####
11.29.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the death of former Illinois Representative Henry Hyde. “I admired Henry Hyde as much as anyone I have ever served with in the Congress. His death is both a personal loss and a real loss for the country. “In the effort to protect the unborn, there was no better advocate than Henry Hyde. The Hyde Amendment, which essentially banned federal funding of abortions, remains the gold standard of the pro-life movement. “As most people know, my association with Henry came to a head during the impeachment of former President Clinton. Henry was the leader of the House Managers presenting the case to the Senate. I will always remember his understanding of the Constitution and the steady, sound leadership he provided. Henry Hyde truly was a legendary figure in the U.S. House of Representatives.” ####
11.29.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Graham Statement on US-Chinese WTO Agreement: “I was pleased by Ambassador Schwab’s announcement today regarding China’s decision to end illegal subsidies challenged by the United States before the WTO. Today’s announcement is a step in the right direction and is good news for the global economy. Ambassador Schwab is an effective United States Trade Representative who aggressively pursues fairness for American businesses. "While I applaud the Chinese government’s decision in this matter, much difficult work lies ahead in addressing the concerns the United States has with China ’s trade policies. I hope today’s announcement is the beginning of movement by the Chinese on currency and intellectual property rights." #####
11.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against a Democratic plan to begin troop withdrawals from Iraq. The plan, which called for all American troops to be out of Iraq by December 15, 2008, had already passed the House of Representatives. He made this statement: “Some people seem intent on taking one of the most successful counter-insurgency military operations in American history – the Surge – and undercutting it by the acts of one of the most dysfunctional Congresses in American history. “We cannot deny funding to our troops in the field and we cannot replace the judgment of our military commanders with a dysfunctional Congress being led around by the nose by groups like Code Pink and Moveon.org. They refuse to acknowledge success. All they see is the next election and the potential for their next TV ad. “We must not send a message to our enemies that we’re prepared to let them get off the mat and back into the fight. This was a ridiculous proposal which undercuts our national security interests. I’m proud to have been part of the effort to defeat this ill-advised measure.” #####
11.15.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today called on Senate Democrat leaders to pass troop and veterans funding legislation that can be signed into law. Graham was joined at a press conference by a representative from Vets for Freedom and a group of Senators including Republican Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, Joe Lieberman of Connecticut, and Richard Burr of North Carolina. Graham said: “I am extremely disappointed the Democrat-controlled Congress cannot appreciate that the surge has been one the most effective military operations in American history. “We owe it to our troops and our own national security interests to continue to support their historic efforts. Instead, some seem intent on pulling the rug out from under their feet by failing to fund our troops while they are on the battlefield. “The strings attached to the House bill put in jeopardy the gains we have made. It also sends the wrong message to a diminished enemy.” The Senate has yet to vote on the bridge funding for operations in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Conference Report. ####
11.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he has received a reply to his request from the Chinese Ambassador to the United States, Zhou Wenzhong, making clear that China will not ban the Bible from the Olympic Village. “It remains unknown what the concocters of this fabrication are driving at,” wrote Ambassador Zhou in a letter to Graham. “But they have caused some negative impacts. The Beijing Olympic Games is a major event for both China and the world. I hope these people will stop doing harms to the mutual understanding and friendship between the Chinese people and the people of the world.” Media reports in Europe and the United States have suggested China was seeking to ban Bibles from the Olympic Village at the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing. “I was very pleased to receive this communication from the Chinese Ambassador making it clear there will not be a ban on Bibles at the Olympic Village,” said Graham. “As with everything from communist China it is my position we verify, verify, verify and then trust. I’m pleased to have this in writing and hopefully this will clear up any and all confusion on this matter.” #####
11.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today introduced a Balanced Budget Constitutional Amendment in the U.S. Senate. If ratified, the amendment would not allow the federal government to spend more money than it collects each year. In limited circumstances, such as during a time of war, Congress can waive the balanced budget requirement with a two-thirds majority. The amendment also would make it more difficult for Congress to increase the burden on the taxpayer by requiring a two-thirds majority vote to raise taxes. “A balanced budget constitutional amendment provides the best hope of regaining and maintaining fiscal sanity,” said Graham, a long-time supporter of the BBA. “The urge to spend is powerful. In my years in the Congress I’ve seen first-hand how both parties behave when in control of the federal purse. Neither side seems capable of being a good, long-term steward of the taxpayer dollar.” "Tax cuts have fueled our economy and led to a surge in tax revenue, but even with those cuts American's tax burden is above historic averages,” said DeMint. “Washington isn't taxing too little, its simply spending too much. It's time to pass a balanced budget amendment to force a stop to wasteful overspending." “Americans in their private and business lives are faced with the consequences of deficits,” said Graham. “Congress, on the other hand, can ignore those kinds of rules. Senator DeMint, who has been a great steward of the taxpayer dollar, understands this dynamic. We must get the nation’s fiscal house back in order and the BBA is an institutional reform that will serve us well.” "Every family in South Carolina knows spending more than you make is the fastest way to financial disaster,” said DeMint. “Yet, Congress continues to increase our debt by billions each year leaving a mess for our children and grandchildren to clean up. Lindsey and I have fought for years to keep taxes and spending low, but we must enact true reform if we are ever to see real change in Washington. I encourage my colleagues to support the balanced budget amendment so we can bring some fiscal sanity back to the federal budget." In order to become law, the amendment must be passed by two-thirds of both the House of Representative and the Senate, and then be ratified by two-thirds of the states. A decade ago, a similar version of the BBA passed the House of Representatives but failed in the Senate by a single vote. ####
11.09.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today sent the following letter to newly confirmed Attorney General Michael Mukasey. The text of the letter read: We are pleased that the Senate voted to confirm you last night as Attorney General of the United States. As you take office, we strongly urge you to immediately receive briefings on the CIA interrogation program and to publicly declare that the technique known as “waterboarding” is illegal. We appreciate your acknowledgement that waterboarding is “over the line” and “repugnant.” As we have previously noted, waterboarding, under any circumstances, represents a clear violation of U.S. law. In 2005, the President signed into law the so-called “McCain Amendment,” a prohibition on cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment as those terms are understood under the standards of the U.S. Constitution. We expressed then our strong belief that a fair reading of this legislation outlaws waterboarding and other extreme techniques. Whether or not the Administration took a contrary view, it is incontestable that such techniques are outlawed by the 2006 Military Commissions Act. Indeed, during the negotiations that led to the MCA, we were personally assured by Administration officials that waterboarding was prohibited under the new law. We expect that you will reach the same conclusion. Given your recognition that the President cannot waive congressionally mandated restrictions on interrogation techniques, it is vital that you publicly declare waterboarding illegal. By doing so, our nation can finally put this issue behind us. We must do so. We support a robust offensive to wage and prevail in the war on terror. But as we confront those committed to our destruction, it is vital that we never forget that we are, first and foremost, Americans. The laws and values that have built our nation are a source of strength, not weakness, and we will win the war on terror not in spite of devotion to our cherished values, but because we have held fast to them. Congratulations on your confirmation as Attorney General. The scenarios you previously described as hypothetical are no longer so, and you now have the benefit of full access to classified programs and memoranda. We urge you to acquaint yourself immediately with these matters and take the opportunity to make clear that waterboarding is illegal and can never be employed. We look forward to working with you and the Department on this and other matters. ###
11.06.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of Judge Michael Mukasey to serve as Attorney General. Mukasey was voted out of the Senate Judiciary Committee by a vote of 11-8. Graham made this statement after the vote. “I’m very pleased Judge Mukasey was reported out of committee. He is the right person at the right time to lead the Department of Justice. “All who have appeared before him as a judge speak of his independence, judicial temperament and experience. He’s an expert on the legal issues surrounding the War on Terror and will provide leadership to a rudderless Department of Justice. “Judge Mukasey is part of the solution, not the problem, when it comes to interpreting our obligations under the law. I think he’s a fine man in every sense of the word and hope he receives swift confirmation by the full Senate.” #####
11.01.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today released the following statement about the nomination of Judge Michael Mukasey as U.S. Attorney General: “After carefully reviewing Judge Mukasey’s answers to the questions submitted to him by Senate Judiciary Committee members, we plan to support his nomination. “We welcome Judge Mukasey’s acknowledgement in a letter yesterday that the interrogation technique known as waterboarding is ‘over the line’ and ‘repugnant,’ and we appreciate his recognition that Congress possesses the authority to ban interrogation techniques. Mr. Mukasey declined to comment specifically on the legality of waterboarding, deeming it a hypothetical scenario about which it would be imprudent to opine. Once he is confirmed, however, we strongly urge that he publicly make clear that waterboarding is illegal and can never be employed. “In fact, Administration officials have stated as much. Waterboarding is clearly outlawed by several statutes, including both the Detainee Treatment Act and the 2006 Military Commissions Act (MCA). The MCA, for example, specifically prohibits acts that inflict ‘serious and non-transitory mental harm’ that ‘need not be prolonged.’ Staging a mock execution by inducing the misperception of drowning is a clear violation of this standard. For this reason, during the negotiations that led to the MCA, we were personally assured by Administration officials that this language, which applies to all agencies of the U.S. Government, prohibits waterboarding. We share Judge Mukasey’s revulsion at the use of waterboarding and we welcome his commitment to further review its legality once confirmed. We expect that he will reach the same conclusion. “We are particularly pleased that in his responses yesterday Judge Mukasey exhibited mainstream legal views on constitutional checks and balances. He stated that the President cannot waive congressionally mandated restrictions on interrogation techniques, including those included in the ‘McCain Amendment’ and the Military Commissions Act. This is a particularly important conclusion given that, under these laws, anyone who engages in waterboarding, on behalf of any U.S. government agency, puts himself at risk of civil liability and criminal prosecution. “The President has selected a consensus nominee for the important post of Attorney General. Judge Mukasey has a reputation as a rigorous, independent thinker, and we are pleased to offer him our support. We hope that our colleagues will join us in voting for confirmation.” ###
11.01.2007	Congressional Record October 31, 2007 Page: S13621 Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, as we are confronted by the deep sadness of this tragic loss, may we never lose sight of the life, vitality, and youth that was suddenly taken from us on October 27, 2007, in Ocean Isle, NC. Today and in the difficult days to come, we offer our sincerest condolences to the family and friends of these seven young men and women. The University of South Carolina, Clemson University, and the State of South Carolina feel the immeasurable pain of losing seven of our most precious sons and daughters, and as the family South Carolinians are, we share in your grief and offer our love and support. Not only do we mourn the loss of sons and daughters, but we mourn the loss of future leaders and scholars, peacemakers and trailblazers, parents and friends. The world was vastly open to these young men and women. I ask others to find the courage and resolve to fulfill their suspended hopes and dreams, ensuring that futures overcome flames and aspirations prevail over ashes. Though it is grief that connects us now, let it be the spirit of their lives that forever bonds our community. We should honor these students by taking up the load they left for us to carry and seeing their earthly aspirations through to their full fruition.
10.31.2007	WASHINGTON, DC –U.S. Senators John McCain (R-AZ), John Warner (R-VA) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today acknowledged Judge Michael Mukasey’s remarks about the legality of an interrogation technique referred to as “waterboarding” in a letter of response to the Attorney General nominee. The letter reads as follows: "We welcome your acknowledgement in yesterday’s letter that the interrogation technique known as waterboarding is "over the line” and “repugnant," and we appreciate your recognition that Congress possesses the authority to ban interrogation techniques. These are important statements, and we expect that they will inform your views as Attorney General. We also expect that, in that role, you will not permit the use of such a practice by any agency of the United States Government. "You have declined to comment specifically on the legality of waterboarding, deeming it a hypothetical scenario about which it would be imprudent to opine. Should you be confirmed, however, you will soon be required to make determinations regarding the legality of interrogation techniques that are anything but hypothetical. Should this technique come before you for review, we urge that you take that opportunity to declare waterboarding illegal. "Waterboarding, under any circumstances, represents a clear violation of U.S. law. In 2005, the President signed into law a prohibition on cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment as those terms are understood under the standards of the U.S. Constitution. There was at that time a debate over the way in which the Administration was likely to interpret these prohibitions. We stated then our strong belief that a fair reading of the "McCain Amendment" outlaws waterboarding and other extreme techniques. It is, or should be, beyond dispute that waterboarding “shocks the conscience.” "It is also incontestable that waterboarding is outlawed by the 2006 Military Commissions Act (MCA), and it was the clear intent of Congress to prohibit the practice. As the authors of the statute, we would note that the MCA enumerates grave breaches of Common Article 3 of the Geneva Conventions that constitute offenses under the War Crimes Act. Among these is an explicit prohibition on acts that inflict "serious and non-transitory mental harm,” which the MCA states (but your letter omits) “need not be prolonged." Staging a mock execution by inducing the misperception of drowning is a clear violation of this standard. Indeed, during the negotiations, we were personally assured by Administration officials that this language, which applies to all agencies of the U.S. Government, prohibited waterboarding. "We share your revulsion at the use of waterboarding and welcome your commitment to review existing legal memoranda covering interrogations and their consistency with current law. It is vital that you do so, as anyone who engages in this practice, on behalf of any U.S. government agency, puts himself at risk of criminal prosecution, including under the War Crimes Act, and opens himself to civil liability as well. "We must wage and win the war on terror, but doing so is fully compatible with fidelity to our laws and deepest values. Once you are confirmed and fully briefed on the relevant programs and legal analyses, we urge you to publicly make clear that waterboarding can never be employed. " ###
10.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry passed the Food and Energy Security Act of 2007 (Farm Bill). U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham voted in support of the legislation. Among the major features of the legislation: Extends commodity programs for producers including direct payments to farmers; Reauthorizes conservation, agriculture research, rural development, energy, and food assistance programs; Establishes incentives for farmers to invest in the production and conversion of renewable biomass, such as cellulosic ethanol, to energy; Establishes a Rural Collaborative Investment program that would bolster economic development in rural regions by providing grants to projects created by local government, business and nonprofit organizations; Reauthorizes key programs such as the Food Stamp Program, the Emergency Food Assistance Program, the Fruit and Vegetable Program, the Environmental Quality Incentives Program, the Wetlands Reserve Program, foreign food assistance programs, and rural programs such as community facility funding, broadband service, rural/waste water grants. “Agriculture is the second largest industry in South Carolina and I know how important these programs are to our state,” said Graham. “I am pleased the committee approved a farm bill that maintains current farm programs and includes increased funding for nutrition and specialty crops programs. We also adopted incentives for the conversion of cellosic biomass to energy and recognize the importance of conservation and rural development in our country.” Graham noted there are provisions in the bill that cause concern such as an optional farm program that makes payments to producers based on state crop revenue targets, and a provision that reduces payment limits over the life of the bill. “This farm bill is not perfect and everyone on the Committee would admit that there are some things in this bill that they don’t like,” said Graham. “However, I am proud that a compromise was found that nearly all my colleagues could agree is a good bill.” Graham worked to include additional grant programs that could benefit research and training being conducted in South Carolina. These include expanding research conducted on forage-fed beef systems and a New Era Rural Technology Program that would provide grant money to community colleges for training an agriculture workforce in bio-energy, and the pulp and paper industry. The legislation also includes a Graham-backed provision that would provide economic adjustment assistance in the amount of 4 cents per pound to textile manufacturers for the modernization of equipment and operations. The House version of the 2007 farm bill passed in July. Action on the Senate floor will begin in the coming weeks. ####
10.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he backed the new sanctions on Iran announced today by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. He made this statement: “I strongly support the Administration’s efforts to impose tough new economic sanctions on Iran. The designation of the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps as a proliferator of weapons of mass destruction and the Quds Force as a supporter of terrorism are certainly justified and necessary. “I hope the sanctions announced today will help deliver the desired results when it comes to curbing Iran’s nuclear desires. The entire free world should join in our effort and view this as an opportunity for the international community to step up to the plate. Russia could play a key role in this endeavor if they choose to act and I believe a coordinated international campaign could provide positive results. “At the end of the day though, the Iranian nuclear desires must be contained. Iran is not interested in the production of peaceful nuclear power, but the production of weapons-grade nuclear materials. We must keep all options on the table when dealing with this dangerous Iranian regime.” #####
10.24.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against invoking cloture on the DREAM Act. Sixty votes were necessary to move to consideration of the legislation and the vote in the Senate was 52-44. He made this statement following the vote: “First, we must show the American people we are serious about securing our nation’s borders. “I have twice introduced and passed legislation through the Senate providing $3 billion for improved border security. There is no doubt we need more boots on the ground, more miles of fencing, better technology which acts as a force multiplier, additional detention beds, and unmanned aerial vehicles at the border. I have and will continue to push for adoption of the Graham Amendment until it is signed into law by President Bush. “Regaining operational control of our nation’s borders is a gateway to further reforms of our broken immigration system. “I’m sympathetic to the concerns expressed today on the floor of the Senate, but I believe the legislation was poorly drafted and in need of further amending. Additionally, Majority Leader Reid made clear that he was not going to allow any meaningful changes to the DREAM Act, a legislative process I found to be very unfair. Without assurances border security would be addressed, I would not vote to proceed to this matter. “There is no reason to abandon our border security efforts at this critical moment in time. We need to be focused on securing our borders to ensure people who come into the country do so legally.” #####
10.24.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of confirming President Bush’s nominee, Judge Leslie Southwick, to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals and criticized the cloture votes of Senators Hillary Clinton (D-New York) and Barack Obama (D-Illinois), both of whom are running to be President. The 5th Circuit covers the states of Texas, Louisiana, and Mississippi . Southwick was confirmed by a vote of 59-38. “Judge Southwick was an unusually well-qualified candidate by any standard,” said Graham. “He has the humanity, intellect, and judicial demeanor you want in someone serving on the federal bench. I think he was one of the most qualified judicial candidates to come before the Senate.” Graham noted Judge Southwick has compiled a long and distinguished record of service including service as a member of the Mississippi Court of Appeals from 1995 to December 2006 and service in Iraq as a member of the Mississippi National Guard’s 155th Brigade Combat Team. On a speech on the Senate floor, Graham noted Judge Southwick received the highest qualified rating from the American Bar Association and comes highly recommended from those who have worked with him. Graham also termed the arguments used by opponents to derail the nomination of Southwick as “political garbage.” “People who have worked with and know Judge Southwick the best have nothing but glowing things to say about him,” said Graham. “The attacks which were manufactured against him equate to the worst in politics today. Judge Southwick was a highly qualified nominee and I was proud to vote in support of his confirmation to the federal bench. He will serve with honor and distinction.” Graham also noted Senators Clinton and Obama, the two leading Democrats running for President both voted against cloture – the procedure by which the Senate can vote to place a time limit on consideration of a bill or other matter and thereby overcome a filibuster -- on Judge Southwick. “What will these Senators ask and expect if they get to be President and send judicial nominees to the Senate?” questioned Graham. “They will want straight up-or-down votes on their nominees. Will the Senate be able or should they even expect the Senate to rise above the example they set today?” “Their willingness to participate in a filibuster denying cloture on Judge Southwick shows a lack of vision and leadership,” said Graham. “Their desire to pander to the hard left has overcome their appreciation for what would happen to the judiciary, the country, and yes, even the Presidency, if every Senator followed their example.” #####
10.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today visited the Space and Naval Warfare (SPAWAR) Systems Center, Charleston and discussed the role the facility is playing in the outfitting of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles (MRAP) for the military. Graham noted that every MRAP heading to Iraq comes through SPAWAR before being transported overseas. The vehicles are delivered to SPAWAR where engineers and technicians outfit the armored vehicle with the appropriate jamming devices and communications gear. The MRAP vehicles have proven to be very effective at saving American lives from Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) and ambush attacks. “Our state has made many important contributions to the war effort, but one of the most valuable is occurring daily at SPAWAR,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “We should all be proud of them and thankful for their contributions to the war effort.” Graham has long been a supporter of the MRAP vehicles and in the early days of the Iraq war went head-to-head with the Pentagon over $4.5 million in funding to pay for a prototype vehicle. At the time, the Pentagon favored a program to ‘up-armor’ the Humvee to guard against IED and ambush attacks. Graham prevailed and the funding was secured which allowed a South Carolina company, Force Protection of Ladson (then known as Technical Solutions), to continue working on the prototype. “The funding secured in 2005 was a turning point in terms of bringing awareness to IED protection in Congress,” said Graham. “Without direct Congressional involvement, we would be years behind in developing and deploying MRAPs. It enabled the industry to prove the capability of their product. Now we have multiple companies competing for contracts and commitments from the Department of Defense to purchase thousands of these life-saving vehicles.” “ South Carolina companies were among the first to produce these important and life-saving vehicles,” said Graham. “This is another example of how our state has been and continues to be on the tip of the spear for the United States military’s fight against terrorism.” ####
10.05.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- Recently, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) sat down with teachers, principals, and other education leaders in South Carolina to hear their ideas on how to improve No Child Left Behind (NCLB). The roundtable discussion took place at the University of South Carolina’s College of Education. Participants in the meeting included teachers, principals, and representatives of local school districts, the South Carolina Association of Public Charter Schools, the South Carolina Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development, the South Carolina Parent Teacher Association, the Palmetto State Teachers Association, the South Carolina Association for Career and Technical Education, the South Carolina School Boards Association, the South Carolina Association of School Administrators, the South Carolina Council for Exceptional Children, and 2008 South Carolina Teacher of the Year Ann Marie Taylor. “NCLB was a historic effort to bring about accountability to our schools and measure achievement and progress of our students,” said Graham. “As with any major changes in federal policy, it appears some parts have worked while others have not. I think it is important to meet with men and women who spend their lives educating children to hear their views on NCLB.” Graham noted the discussion focused on four topics: Improvements that can be made to Adequate Yearly Progress (AYP) requirements in order to reflect the actual proficiency of schools. Highly qualified teachers requirements Accommodating special needs students Recognition for states like South Carolina that have some of the highest proficiency standards in the country “As the Congress continues our discussions about the reauthorization of NCLB, it is important to have frank discussions about the best path forward,” said Graham. “Accountability is one of the keys to continued progress in education, but we must ensure NCLB works for our students and meets our nation’s education goals. Education policy is best made at the state and local level, but if reformed NCLB can be helpful.” ####
10.03.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – The U.S. Senate today approved an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2008 Defense Appropriations bill introduced by Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) to provide $3 billion for increased border security and interior enforcement measures. The measure passed 95-1. “In the age of terrorism, regaining operational control of our nation’s borders is a national security issue of the highest order,” said Graham. “The term ‘operational control’ is a military term, and I look at this effort to secure our border as a military operation. We are serious about border security and this again shows the commitment to do whatever is necessary to regain control of our borders." “There is no doubt we need better border security at our southern border including more boots on the ground, more miles of fencing, better technology which acts as a force multiplier, additional detention beds, and unmanned aerial vehicles,” said Graham. “My amendment provides funding for these important and much-needed changes in federal policy.” Graham sponsored the amendment along with Senator Jon Kyl (R-Arizona). "The U.S. has come a long way in its efforts to secure the border," said Kyl. "For example, the number of Border Patrol agents has increased from approximately 4,000 to 15,000 by the end of 2007. And, last year, Congress gave DHS an extra $1.2 billion to construct fencing and other vehicular barriers in FY2007. But there is still so much left to do. This amendment provides an additional $3 billion in emergency funding for FY2008 to protect the border, enhance interior enforcement, including at the workplace, and detain more illegal immigrants who have either committed crimes or who are in the process of being removed from the U.S. for immigration violations." The Graham Amendment to the Defense Appropriations bill and Homeland Security Appropriations bill: Establishes operational control over the entire US border. Provides funding to construct 700 miles of fencing. Provides funding to procure Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV), ground sensors, vehicle barriers. Increases the ability to detain immigrants for overstaying their visas and committing other crimes. Provides funding for states and localities that undergo training to assist the Federal government in enforcing immigration law. The Graham Amendment mirrors a provision Graham introduced and passed in July as part of the Fiscal Year 2008 Homeland Security Appropriations bill by a vote of 89-1. “I want the $3 billion to become law and this will increase the odds of that happening,” said Graham. “Right now, there appears to be more bipartisan agreement on the Defense Appropriations bill and it stands a much better chance of being signed into law. I have concerns Democrats in the House of Representatives will strip the $3 billion for border security from the Homeland Security bill when it goes to conference, or change the bill in ways that force a presidential veto.” #####
10.03.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM IS INTERVIEWED ON FOX NEWS CHANNEL OCTOBER 3, 2007 BILL HEMMER [FOX NEWS CHANNEL]: Back to this developing situation in the skies near Alaska . Only yesterday, we showed you new videotape of U.S. jets intercepting Russian bombers wandering dangerously close to U.S. airspace. A rare look now from the cockpit of an F-15. Now, the Air Force has been dealing with these stray bombers since August. And U.S. defense officials say these incidents are on the rise, adding they have not seen this many Russian flights this close since the Cold War. Lindsey Graham, Republican senator, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, with me now from D.C. Senator, good morning, and welcome back. SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM: Good morning, Bill. HEMMER: Help me with this. What does Russia get out of these flights, Senator? GRAHAM: Well, it's -- they have this view that they're re-emerging as a stronger power but actually they're diminishing themselves. You know, this idea of re-engaging America and the West in a Cold War mentality is a big loser for Russia . They're trying to intimidate their neighbors who are joining in NATO. These flights are just a kind of a flex-the-muscle approach to foreign policy. That's not going to work. Every institution in Russia has been degraded under Putin: the legal system, the parliament, the press. So this is becoming a autocratic country, much to the, I think, detriment of the Russian people. HEMMER: You used a word in there. You said "diminished." Why are they diminished? GRAHAM: Well, because Putin has rolled back democratic reforms. These flights have not occurred since 1992. He is trying to now run for prime minister. He's diminished the Duma, the parliament, when he was president. The legal system is pretty much of a joke. The press has no freedom in Russia . They censor reports about their government. And these flights are just another saber-rattling episode. He's fishing in a stream without a shirt. It's kind of like the whole country's going through a mid-life crisis. HEMMER: Well, that's a statement right out of South Carolina , I must add there. (LAUGHTER) You don't seem to be concerned about this, do you? GRAHAM: I'm not. I'm not, because I know the strength of our country is the institutions we have are bigger than personalities. We should be concerned about Russia , but not afraid. Remember the bear in the wood commercial that Ronald Reagan ran in 1980 against the Soviet Union ? HEMMER: I sure do. GRAHAM: Well, this is a cub in the woods. Russia is really a weak, struggling country trying to have bravado through one man that is short sighted. They could be a very key player in the international community, a constructive force. They could help us with Iran . But they're choosing to go a different path. And that will result in a weaker Russia over time. So we have to convince them... HEMMER: With global energy prices, too, one argue that their economy's on the boost too, and they're creating billionaires by the day over there in Moscow . GRAHAM: Right. HEMMER: Another topic now: The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, is hitting hard back at Rush Limbaugh. And I know you've heard the back- and-forth between Limbaugh and what has being said in the Senate and Media Matters, this group that really put the headline on the story two days ago. What are we to make of the back-and-forth and why the Senate is taking the position it is, at least on the Democratic side? GRAHAM: We can clearly understand that the MoveOn.org ad really stunned the Democrats, and they're trying to create a bogeyman on the right to make up for what was clearly an effort by the left to diminish and to bring into question the patriotism of General Petraeus. HEMMER: So you're saying the Betray-Us ad, this is payback because of that. GRAHAM: Well, it's an attempt at payback. But from what I can see, based on the record available to us, Rush Limbaugh was talking about two people who claimed to be in Iraq when they were not, who claimed to be participating in atrocities that never occurred, And they're trying to spin that out into something else. And it's feeble attempt to change the subject. HEMMER: Lindsey Graham, thank you for your time. GRAHAM: Thank you.
10.03.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Audio of Senator Graham discussing the $3 billion in border security funding is available at this location. The Graham Amendment passed the Senate today by a vote of 95-1.
10.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the threat by the House Appropriations Committee Chairman David Obey (D-WI) to not pass a new war funding bill until early next year and condition it on a goal of January 2009 for an end to U.S. combat operations in Iraq . Graham made this statement: “Such a position is the height of irresponsibility, particularly in a time of war. The Al Qaeda fighters being run out of Anbar and Diyala Provinces because of the surge would cheer on a congressional cutoff of funding. The very dangerous regime in Tehran, which seeks to develop nuclear weapons and dominate the entire region, would stand and applaud America’s lack of resolve to establish a stable government in Iraq . I hope Chairman Obey revisits this ill-conceived position.” #####
09.27.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today will vote against the conference report on the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). The legislation is expected to pass the Senate. The House of Representatives has already passed SCHIP and President Bush has said he will veto it when it reaches his desk. “I was very concerned when the SCHIP program was created in 1997 it would eventually be expanded beyond its original purpose,” said Graham. “From the start, there were worries SCHIP could serve as the first brick in the road to national health care. Sure enough, a decade later, Congress will expand the program and add dozens of new bricks on the pathway toward government-run, government-controlled national health care.” Graham noted several problems with the SCHIP legislation including: The expanded SCHIP program moves our nation closer to a single-payer, government-run, government-controlled national health care system. The SCHIP program, created in 1997, was originally designed to provide health insurance to low-income children. Under the new expansion, the program will now cover adults and families earning as much as $82,600 a year. This year 13 percent of SCHIP funds will go to adults, not low-income children. The program encourages people to move from private health insurance to government-funded health insurance. According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), 2 million individuals who are currently insured will move from private insurance to government insurance. “There are many very serious problems with this legislation,” said Graham. “This bill doubles the cost of the SCHIP program and is a giant step toward nationalized healthcare. In addition, no longer are we just covering low-income children, but adults can now join the program. Finally, we encourage families to drop private insurance and join the government program. This is a very bad day for our health care system and the American taxpayer.” ####
09.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham and Representative Gresham Barrett have secured final Congressional approval for a long-delayed development project at Lake Russell . Last night, the Senate passed the Water Resources Development Act of 2007(WRDA). The legislation instructs the federal government to sell approximately 600 acres of land around Lake Russell to the state of South Carolina . The land will be combined with other state held lands and developed to include a hotel, conference center, marina and housing. The development will create jobs and spur growth in an economically-depressed area. “This project represents the economic development model of the future,” said Graham. “A public-private venture that will respect the area’s environment while bringing a much needed economic boost to the region. I want to thank Gresham Barrett for his leadership in shepherding this through the House. I look forward to seeing this project through to its completion. It’s been in the works for about a decade and I’m glad we are finally getting close to moving this project forward.” “I am glad to see the Lake Russell project come successfully through the House and the Senate, putting a partnership in place that is a win-win for everyone,” said Congressman Barrett. “I appreciate the efforts by Senator Graham to ensure this project was included in the final legislation. With each step we move closer to a successful conclusion. This project has been a long time coming – it will bring economic development to the region and the state while ensuring Lake Russell is protected and preserved in its natural state.” WRDA was passed by the House of Representatives in August. ####
09.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- Today, Congress passed the Water Resources Development Act of 2007 which will provide for significant improvements to our nation’s water resources and water infrastructure. Senator Lindsey Graham and Congressman Henry E. Brown, Jr., voted with a strong bipartisan majority to pass this critically important legislation. Brown was a member of the Conference Committee tasked with reconciling the differences between the Senate and House versions of the bill. The bill authorizes more than $76 million for infrastructure projects in Charleston and the Grand Strand. “After many years of work on this bill, I was pleased to see this legislation take another critical step towards becoming law,” said Brown. “Working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, we were able to work out a compromise plan that both houses can agree to, as well as provide for necessary projects for coastal South Carolina . Improving infrastructure is not a partisan issue, it is a commitment we as a nation must ensure is met, and I was pleased to see such strong bipartisan support for this bill. I want to thank Senator Graham for his efforts in support of this legislation.” “The South Carolina projects authorized in this bill are much needed to promote health, safety, and economic development,” said Graham. “I appreciate Congressman Brown’s leadership in shepherding these meritorious projects through the House. There is still much work to be done in the authorization and appropriation process. We must create a system that allows transparency and reduces the ability of lawmakers to subvert the open process and slip wasteful spending into worthwhile bills. I am proud of the funding Congressman Brown and I have secured, and ask my colleagues to publicly stand by their projects as well. ” Included in the Conference Report were several projects sought by local communities to give the Army Corps the tools to improve the environment, conduct critical drainage improvements, and reduce coastal storm damage throughout the Grand Strand and Charleston Regions. The efforts of Congressman Brown and Senator Graham resulted in increased authorization levels for these projects: $18 million to accelerate the continued installation of ocean outfalls in Myrtle Beach: As part of the City’s Pavilion Master Plan, an ocean outfall system for Myrtle Beach will retain, clean, and then discharge storm water offshore, replacing the current system, which dumps untreated storm water directly onto the beach. The City has already invested $15 million into this project. $16 million to continue progress on replacement of the Charleston Wastewater Tunnels: For several years, the Charleston Water System has been conducting a phased replacement of the city’s wastewater carrier tunnels. These nearly 40-year-old structures lying beneath the city and the harbor were deteriorating at a rapid pace, putting the entire region under the risk of a severe environmental disaster, given that the tunnel system carries over 10 million gallons of wastewater on a daily basis. While largely financed by the Water System, the federal support authorized in this legislation will assist with efforts to move ahead with Phase II of the project, which involves replacing portions of the Cooper River and Ashley River Tunnels in Downtown Charleston. $16.44 million to support storm damage reduction and beach renourishment in Pawleys Island : Funds authorized under this project will allow for the construction of a 6,800 foot sand berm along the southern reach of Pawleys Island . This will have a significant impact on reducing future hurricane and storm damage to the surrounding beach and community. Additionally, the project provides for a 50-year commitment by the Federal government to provide for beach renourishment. $11 million towards efforts by North Myrtle Beach to replace its current stormwater drainage system with a system of ocean outfalls: The ocean outfall system will ensure that swimmers do not come into contact with dangerous bacteria and will assist with efforts to reduce flooding and beach renourishment needs by carrying rainfall runoff to a point offshore. Federal support for this project follows $12 million in local investment by North Myrtle Beach . $11 million for ocean outfalls projects in Surfside Beach : Included in this authorization is critical support for efforts by the Town of Surfside Beach to replace an existing ocean outfall, including construction of a new headwall and weir. The replacement of this outfall, along with efforts by the town to expand its existing outfall system, are strategic for ensuring that the Town continues its past history of meeting water quality mandates before they are required. $4 million to allow the City of Charleston to move forward with the Spring Street/Fishburne Street Drainage Project: The Spring Street/Fishburne Street drainage basin encompasses approximately 500 acres, or about twenty percent of the Charleston peninsula and is traversed by U.S. Highway 17, which due to current conditions can be made impassable to passenger vehicles by moderate rainfall. “A modern and well-functioning infrastructure is a key component to economic development, and serves to protect our health and safety,” said Graham. “Projects authorized in this bill are critical to protecting the health and well being of people in South Carolina and throughout the country.” “Each of these projects is critical to protecting the environment and ensuring the safety of the entire region,” said Representative Brown, a member of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee in the House. “While this bill does not on its own provide funding, it ensures that these projects will be on the list of priorities for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.” ####
09.24.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement following Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s remarks at Columbia University. Graham said: “I regret that this extremist leader was given such a platform, and it is my hope that the world will understand and appreciate the radical nature of the current Iranian regime. Ahmadinejad supports the destruction of the state of Israel. We would be making a huge mistake miscalculating the Iranian threat to Israel and the region. “His performance today should reinforce the international community’s desire to impose sanctions against Iran for their efforts to develop a nuclear weapons program. If we act decisively now, with one voice, we could save the world a lot of heartache in the future.” ####
09.21.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against the Levin-Reed amendment which would have begun withdrawing American troops from Iraq in 120 days and requires the removal of most U.S. troops within the next nine months. The amendment failed by a vote of 47-47, 13 votes shy of the 60 needed for passage. "Levin-Reed was a case of armchair generals in Congress substituting their collective military judgment for that of General Petraeus. . "The Levin-Reed amendment, had it passed, would not have been welcomed news by our troops on the battlefield. Our enemies, on the other hand, are suffering mightily under the Petraeus strategy and would have rejoiced over this dramatic reversal in policy. "At a time when we should be building on the momentum of the Petraeus surge, Levin-Reed would have undercut it. Levin-Reed took us back to the old, failed strategy which clearly did not work. I’m very pleased the Senate rejected this ill-advised change in U.S. policy." ######
09.19.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today took to the floor to speak against an amendment offered by Senators Arlen Specter (R-PA) and Pat Leahy (D-VT) giving terror suspects held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba expanded access to file lawsuits in federal courts. Less than an hour later, the U.S. Senate defeated the Specter-Leahy amendment on a 43-56 procedural vote. Sixty votes were required to move forward. In 2005 and 2006, Graham played a leading role in the passage of the Detainee Treatment Act and the Military Commissions Act (MCA) respectively. The laws set forth the procedures for determining enemy combatant status, a very limited federal court review of military detention, and the procedures for the trial of the most dangerous terrorists by military tribunal. Graham authored a provision which denies terrorists the right to file habeas corpus rights. Enemy combatants have used habeas petitions to demand faster mail delivery, high speed internet access, and even to allege medical malpractice and demand millions in punitive and compensatory damages from our troops. These laws ensure that federal courts do not take over the military decision of determining who is and is not an enemy combatant. “Never in the history of warfare have enemy prisoners been able to bring lawsuits about their detention,” said Graham. “Thousands of Germans and Japanese soldiers were captured and held by the military during World War II. Not one case was allowed in federal court where they were allowed to sue for their release. Our rules for the War on Terror should be no different.” Under the Specter-Leahy amendment, enemy combatant terror suspects would have expanded rights to file habeas corpus petitions in federal court challenging their detention. It would also fundamentally weaken the rules governing military tribunals. “The decision of determining who is an enemy combatant belongs with the military, not federal judges,” said Graham. “Judges are not trained to determine who presents a threat to our nation. That is why Congress has only provided for a limited procedural review of combatant status determination. “Before the MCA was signed into law, enemy combatants were filing frivolous suits requesting better mail delivery, more exercise, judge-supervised interrogation, Internet access, the right to view DVDs and alleging medical malpractice," said Graham. "We also made it clear in the MCA terror suspects could not sue American troops for doing their job. The MCA protects our troops and national security while living up to our international commitments and obligations. “It's time we put terror suspects on trial before military tribunals for their crimes against the United States ," said Graham. "If we begin tinkering with provisions of the MCA, it will slow efforts to bring terrorists to justice. Some of the masterminds of the 9/11 attack on America are being held at Guantanamo Bay . I'm ready to see them stand trial and suffer the consequences of their actions against the United States . It's time for justice to be served, not delayed. “I cannot think of a better way to undercut the War on Terror than to adopt the theory that Al Qaeda members are common criminals, not global warriors,” concluded Graham. #####
09.19.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against the Webb Amendment to the Senate Defense Authorization bill. The amendment was a power-grab which sought to take the responsibility of setting troop rotation schedules away from the military and President and give it to the Congress. War opponents have touted the amendment as one means of ending the troop surge in Iraq. The vote failed by a vote of 56-44. Sixty votes were required to move forward “The Webb amendment intended to take care of the troops. I don’t question anyone’s intent, but if you really want to take care of the troops let them win. “The Webb amendment was one of the more ill-advised approaches to fighting the War on Terror. It was a historic constitutional infringement on the power of the Commander in Chief allowing Congress to micromanage troop rotations and deployments. The amendment would have hurt the brave young men and women fighting the War on Terror and set a terrible precedent for fighting future conflicts. “The last thing in the world we should do to our troops -- particularly in the name of helping them -- is to put 535 Members of Congress in charge of troop rotations as we fight the War on Terror. With an approval rating below 20 percent, Congress has not risen to the level of being visionary leaders. “The Webb amendment was a back door attempt to stop the war in Iraq by restricting the available manpower. I’m very pleased the Senate rejected this ill-advised amendment.” ####
09.18.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today spoke at the Vets for Freedom Rally on Capitol Hill.
09.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the testimony of General David H. Petraeus before the Congress. “I think General Petraeus’ testimony has been outstanding. A couple of points he made really stand out to me: The surge has clearly worked. The idea of withdrawing troops because of political posturing in Washington will undercut our successes. If we arbitrarily withdraw troops, we will lose the gains that have been made. We have Al Qaeda on the run and they have been driven out of Anbar Province. The Sunnis in Anbar turned against Al Qaeda as they did not like living under their control. It was a huge event both for the future of Iraq and our own national security. General Petraeus has clearly defined the outcome of the War in Iraq in terms of our national interests. There’s no doubt it is in our own national security interests to have a stable, secure Iraq. If Iraq fails and breaks apart Al Qaeda could reemerge and use it as a safe haven. There could be a war between the Kurds and Turks in the north of Iraq. We could have a Sunni-Shia civil war spread throughout the Middle East. And Iran, led by a ruthless, brutal, and very dangerous man, could dominate parts of Iraq. Each of these outcomes poses dangers to our own national security. “We should continue to allow General Petraeus and the troops to execute their mission. Together they have done a wonderful job brining about a level of security and success which has not been achieved before. “In the Senate, I will continue to fight any effort which undercuts the ability of General Petraeus to maneuver and execute the military operations as he sees fit.” #####
09.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced they have returned their blue slips for the nomination of 4th Circuit Court of Appeals nominee Steve Matthews of South Carolina with a positive recommendation. The slips were issued by and immediately returned to the Senate Judiciary Committee today. The blue slip is a process where the home-state Senators express their support or disapproval of a nominee. Positive blue slip recommendations allow a judicial nomination to proceed to consideration by the Senate Judiciary Committee. “Steve Matthews is an outstanding choice,” said Graham. “He has a keen legal mind and is a man of integrity. I fully support him and hope the Senate will give him a quick and fair hearing.” "I'm proud to support Steve Matthews and I hope he will be confirmed quickly," said Senator Jim DeMint. "Steve has the experience, intellect and integrity necessary to serve on one of our nation's highest courts. He will be a strong addition to the Fourth Circuit." Matthews will fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Judge William ‘Billy’ Wilkins of Greenville. The Fourth Circuit covers the states of South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia and Maryland. ######
09.10.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) called a full page Moveon.org advertisement in today’s New York Times ‘disgusting’ and wrote a bipartisan letter co-signed by 31 senators encouraging Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid to repudiate the ad. The Moveon.org ad titled, ‘General Petraeus or General Betray Us?’ says General Petraeus, “is a military man constantly at war with the facts.” The ad smears the Commanding General in Iraq by concluding that, “Today, before Congress and before the American people, General Petraeus is likely to become General Betray Us.’ “The ad is sick and disgusting,” said Graham. “General Petraeus is a distinguished military leader and should be treated with respect. To suggest he would come before Congress and not give us his honest assessment of the situation on the ground in Iraq flies in the face of who he is and the responsibility on his shoulders.” General Petraeus began what is expected to be two days of difficult questioning before members of the House and Senate on progress in Iraq. In a letter to Majority Leader Harry Reid, the 31 senators called the ad, “distasteful and frankly, below the level of respect that America’s commanding general in Iraq has earned. No matter whether any senator supports or opposes the war in Iraq, we should all voice recognition and appreciation of General Petraeus’ long and distinguished record of service to our country.” The senators asked Reid to join them in making clear, “that you do not share the views of Moveon.org and that you will not join Moveon.org in attacking the character of this fine officer.” “It is important that all officials in positions of responsibility speak out and defend General Petraeus as the honest and honorable military leader he is. From his years of service to our country and the important position he currently holds, he has certainly earned it. “The future of America's involvement there is of paramount importance to our country and, while we believe fervently in the right of free speech, we also believe that it is possible and proper to conduct this debate without besmirching our brave men and women in uniform.” #######
09.10.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417
09.10.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – A bipartisan group of 31 senators have written to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) calling on him to repudiate the ad today by Moveon.org in the New York Times calling David Petraeus, Commanding General of Multi-National Forces Iraq, ‘General Betray Us.’ “Senator Reid, please join us in making it clear that you do not share the views of Moveon.org, and that you will not join Moveon.org in attacking the character of this fine officer,” wrote the Senators. “It is important that all officials in positions of responsibility speak out and defend General Petraeus as the honest and honorable military leader he is. From his years of service to our country and the important position he currently holds, he has certainly earned it.” The letter was circulated by Senator Lindsey Graham and signed by Senators Joe Lieberman, John McCain, Norman Coleman, Jim DeMint, Jon Kyl, Charles Grassley, Kit Bond, Bob Corker, Mel Martinez, Richard Burr, Johnny Isakson, Susan Collins, Wayne Allard, Judd Gregg, Kay Bailey Hutchison, Mike Enzi, Saxby Chambliss, Lamar Alexander, Pat Roberts, David Vitter, John Barrasso, Pete Domenici, Sam Brownback, Jeff Sessions, John Cornyn, Olympia Snowe, Sam Brownback, Elizabeth Dole, John Warner, and John Ensign. “The ad is distasteful and frankly, below the level of respect that America's commanding general in Iraq has earned,” wrote the Senators. “No matter whether any senator supports or opposes the war in Iraq, we should all voice recognition and appreciation of General Petraeus' long and distinguished record of service to our country. “The future of America's involvement there is of paramount importance to our country and, while we believe fervently in the right of free speech, we also believe that it is possible and proper to conduct this debate without besmirching our brave men and women in uniform.” #####
09.06.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced President Bush has nominated Steve A. Matthews to serve on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Matthews will fill the vacancy created by the retirement of Judge William ‘Billy’ Wilkins of Greenville. The Fourth Circuit covers the states of South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia and Maryland . “Steve Matthews is an outstanding choice,” said Graham. “He has a keen legal mind and is a man of integrity. I fully support him and hope the Senate will give him a quick and fair hearing.” "I'm proud to support Steve Matthews and I hope he will be confirmed quickly," said Senator Jim DeMint. "Steve has the experience, intellect and integrity necessary to serve on one of our nation's highest courts. He will be a strong addition to the Fourth Circuit." Matthews is the Managing Director of Haynesworth, Sinkler, and Boyd in Columbia where his law practice concentration is in the area of information technology. At the practice he provides a range of services to start-ups and major corporations – from licensing issues and contract negotiations, to litigation regarding product performance and intellectual property infringement. Prior to joining the firm, Mr. Matthews practiced with the Washington office of Dewey Ballantine and served in the U.S. Department of Justice during President Reagan's second term. At Justice, he advised Attorney General Edwin Meese III and President Reagan on the selection of nominees for federal judgeships, and served as special counsel to Attorney General Meese on the Iran-Contra investigation. Mr. Matthews has a Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of South Carolina and a law degree from Yale Law School . ######
08.30.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the town of Ehrhardt will receive a $2,280,900 grant and a $789,000 loan for improvements to the town’s water system. The funds will be used to replace the distribution system with larger water mains and replace the existing storage tank with a new 10,000-gallon tank. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Rural Development Office. Ehrhardt was previously awarded a $15,000 grant for this project by USDA Rural Development and a $500,000 Community Development Block Grant by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
08.28.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced Greenville County School District will receive a $481,907 grant to strengthen their emergency management plans. Readiness and Emergency Management for Schools grants provide funds to local education agencies to improve and strengthen emergency response plans in all four areas of crisis response: prevention/mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.28.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced three partnering school districts-- Florence School District 1, Florence School District 3, and Laurens School District 56-- will receive a $1,950,250 grant to implement a performance-based compensation system for teachers and principals. The districts will use the Teacher Advancement Program (TAP) model designed by the Milken Foundation. This grant will allow TAP to be implemented in six high-need schools. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.28.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Department of Education will receive a $2,420,838 grant to assist in the professional development of early childhood educators. The South Carolina Department of Education, South Carolina First Steps, South Carolina Head Start, the South Carolina Department of Social Services, the University of South Carolina, and South Carolina State University have partnered to create the Bridges to Early Learning plan. The program will provide professional development for early childhood educators, and will serve eight impoverished areas in the state. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.24.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Oconee County Regional Airport will receive a $281,218 grant for the design of a 600 foot extension to the runway and associated parallel taxiway. U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Oconee County Regional Airport will receive a $281,218 grant for the design of a 600 foot extension to the runway and associated parallel taxiway. "South Carolina’s airports are a vital part of our state’s transportation infrastructure and play an integral role in our economy," said Graham. "These improvements will help recruit future investment and economic development to Oconee County" The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
08.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced Duncan Fire Department will receive a $180,525 Operations and Safety Program grant. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments and rescue squads by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.21.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON — U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (SCDNR) has been awarded a $4.9 million grant to support the state’s floodplain mapping project. The grant of $4,906,361 will help improve South Carolina’s flood maps by creating more reliable, easy-to-use and readily available digital products. Modernized maps track actual risk more closely as well as assist new development and rebuilding efforts. The South Carolina Department of Natural Resources’ Floodplain Mapping Program will produce Digital Flood Insurance Rate Maps (DFIRM) for the counties of Allendale, Bamberg, Barnwell, Clarendon, Hampton, Orangeburg, Williamsburg, Abbeville, Cherokee, Chester County, Chesterfield, Darlington, Dillon, Edgefield, Fairfield, Greenwood, Jasper, Lancaster, Laurens, Marion, Marlboro, McCormick, Newberry and Union. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency. ####
08.20.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $3.25 million in criminal justice grants for South Carolina. Awards recipients include: South Carolina Department of Corrections will receive a $1.25 million grant to create a Statewide Automated Victim Information and Notification program. The system will consist of a real-time data collection network, a central data processing facility, network monitoring/management capability, and two-way communications capability. South Carolina Law Enforcement Division will receive a $981,015 grant to help reduce the backlog of DNA analysis and forensic casework. South Carolina Office of the Attorney General will receive a $500,000 grant to help combat Internet crimes against children. National District Attorneys Association in Columbia will receive a $500,000 grant to assist in hosting two training conferences on domestic violence. All grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.20.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $2.3 million in port security and emergency management grants for South Carolina. South Carolina will receive: $1,500,905 under the Port Security Grant Program to enhance security and risk management procedures at Charleston Harbor. $794,378 under the Emergency Management Performance Grant Program. These funds can be used to improve mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery capabilities for all hazards. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced Glassy Mountain Fire Department in Landrum will receive a $258,734 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program grant. The SAFER Program assists in the hiring of full time firefighters and supports the recruitment and retention of volunteer fire fighters. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to recruit and retain dedicated professionals.” The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced more than $770,000 in grants to fire departments and rescue squads in South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments and rescue squads by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” Grants were awarded in the following program areas: Operations and Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Aynor Aynor Volunteer Rescue Squad will receive a $136,539 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Belton Rock Springs Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $124,097 Operations and Safety grant. Chappells Chappells Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $57,937 Operations and Safety grant. Latta Oak Grove Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $156,750 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Orangeburg Four Holes Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $203,823 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Una Una Fire Department will receive a $93,195 Operations and Safety grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Greenville County will receive a $222,678 grant to support law enforcement and court programs. The county will use the funds for several purposes including: Sheriff’s Office will purchase video editing equipment and ballistic helmets. Department of Public Safety will hire part-time, temporary support to assist the Records Division. Solicitor’s Office will use funds to continue the Adult Drug Court Program. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Emergency Management Division will receive a $1,605,606 Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant to help Seabrook Island protect their wastewater treatment plant from storm surge. The project modifications include converting 12 non-submersible wastewater pumps to submersible pumps, the flood proofing of 24 existing electrical panels, and the flood proofing of other components in the wastewater treatment plant. These upgrades will provide protection from the 500-year coastal storm surge. By providing this level of protection, it will prevent wastewater overflow and back-up into the residences, businesses, marshes and wetlands located within the community. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency. ####
08.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced North Charleston will receive a $200,000 grant to support the Weed and Seed program. Weed and Seed aims to prevent, control, and reduce violent crime, drug abuse, and gang activity in targeted high-crime neighborhoods. The strategy involves a two-pronged approach: law enforcement agencies and prosecutors cooperate in ‘weeding out’ criminals who participate in violent crime and drug abuse, attempting to prevent their return to the targeted area; and ‘seeding’ brings human services to the area, encompassing prevention, intervention, treatment, and neighborhood revitalization. This is the second award for the North Charleston program which serves five neighborhoods in the community. During this project period, program goals include reducing drug dealing, prostitution, theft, and other crimes; increasing community policing efforts through greater visibility and participation in community events; providing human service programs to address the needs of residents; improving the physical condition of the neighborhoods; and increasing homeownership. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $1.5 million in federal funds for projects in the Pee Dee. Award recipients include: Chesterfield County The Town of Chesterfield will receive a $16,500 grant for the purchase of a new street sweeper. Darlington County The City of Darlington will receive a $58,650 grant for the purchase of a refuse collection vehicle. Marion County Marion Rescue Squad will receive a $194,000 loan and a $131,000 grant for the purchase of a new rescue truck. Centenary Community Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $40,000 grant for the purchase of a new brush truck. Marlboro County Wallace Water Company will receive an $844,000 loan and a $171,500 grant for infrastructure improvements. The funds will be used for the extension of water lines on SC Highway 38. It will include 4,600 feet of 10-inch line; 9,500 feet of 8-inch line; 32,600 feet of 6-inch line; and 24,500 feet of 4-inch line. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Office of Rural Development. ####
08.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced $1.2 million in federal funds for projects in Allendale and Barnwell Counties. Award recipients include: Allendale Allendale County will receive a $105,000 grant for the purchase of a new fire truck for the Town of Allendale. The Town of Allendale will receive a $50,000 grant to for the purchase of four new police cars. The town was previously awarded $55,000 and $108,040 grants for this project. Barnwell The Town of Olar will receive a $616,000 loan and $521,700 grant for water system improvements. The funds will be used for the installation of a new storage tank in Olar, a new well in Govan, and new lines, hydrants, and taps in both towns. Olar was previously awarded a $15,000 grant for this project. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Office of Rural Development. ####
08.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced four scientific research grants totaling more than $1.3 million for South Carolina colleges and universities. Awards include: Coastal Carolina University will receive $535,770 for a project entitled, "MRI: Acquisition of Marine Geophysical Instrumentation Suite for Seafloor Mapping and Bottom Boundary Layer Analysis." College of Charleston will receive $392,175 for a project entitled, "Collaborative Research: Phytoplankton Community Dynamics and Physiological Status in the South Atlantic Subtropical Gyre and Benguela Upwelling Systems." Winthrop University will receive $282,309 for a project entitled, "MRI: Acquisition of a Mass Spectrometer to Enhance Undergraduate Research and Student Research Training." Clinton Junior College will receive $148,645 for a project entitled, "Targeted Infusion Grant to Add an Associate of Science Degree." The grants were awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
08.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $1 million for South Carolina recipients under the Drug Free Community Support Program (DFC). The DFC program provides grants up to $100,000 to community coalitions to prevent youth alcohol, tobacco, illicit drug, and inhalant abuse. Award recipients include: Cheraw Chesterfield County Coordinating Council- $100,000 Clemson Clemson University- $99,526 Columbia Lexington/Richland Alcohol and Drug Abuse Council- $99,275 Richland School District 1- $99,997 School District 5 of Lexington and Richland Counties- $100,000 Florence Florence City Committee on Alcohol & Drug Abuse- $76,013 Greenville Greenville Family Partnership- $100,000 Greenwood Community Initiatives Incorporated- $100,000 Lancaster The Children’s Council- $98,021 Spartanburg City of Spartanburg- $93,000 The grants were awarded by the Office of National Drug Control Policy. ####
08.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $1 million for South Carolina recipients under the Drug Free Community Support Program (DFC). The DFC program provides grants up to $100,000 to community coalitions to prevent youth alcohol, tobacco, illicit drug, and inhalant abuse. Award recipients include: Cheraw Chesterfield County Coordinating Council- $100,000 Clemson Clemson University- $99,526 Columbia Lexington/Richland Alcohol and Drug Abuse Council- $99,275 Richland School District 1- $99,997 School District 5 of Lexington and Richland Counties- $100,000 Florence Florence City Committee on Alcohol & Drug Abuse- $76,013 Greenville Greenville Family Partnership- $100,000 Greenwood Community Initiatives Incorporated- $100,000 Lancaster The Children’s Council- $98,021 Spartanburg City of Spartanburg- $93,000 The grants were awarded by the Office of National Drug Control Policy. ####
08.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the University of South Carolina Research Foundation will receive seven scientific research grants totaling $3.8 million. USC will receive: $2,000,000 for a project entitled, "SC STEPs to STEM." $514,498 for a project entitled, "In-Situ Classification of Bloom-Forming Phytoplankton by Imaging Multivariate Optical Computing (IMOC)." $375,000 for a project entitled, “Synthesis of Functional Composite Nanofibers Templated by 1D Self-assembly of Tobacco Mosaic Virus." $347,440 for a project entitled, "Collaboration: Rainfall-driven Intertidal Zone Carbon Cycling." $329,754 for a project entitled, "Developmental Changes in the Strength of Infants' Object Representations." $165,000 for a project entitled, "Collaborative Research: Development of New Heterogeneous Catalysts for NOx Storage and Reduction (NSR)." $143,907 for a project entitled, "Highly effective representations for surface and solid spherical studies." The grants were awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
08.10.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today welcomed the Bush administration’s announcement of a new offensive in the fight against illegal immigration. The Department of Homeland Security today announced new rules that will help authorities combat illegal immigration and go after companies that hire illegal aliens. Among the provisions is an effort to crackdown on the use of fake Social Security by requiring companies to fire employees who use such numbers to gain employment. Graham said: “I applaud the administration’s effort to crackdown on illegal immigration, especially the use of fake Social Security numbers by illegals to gain employment in the United States . This problem is rampant in our country, and further proof we need a tamper-proof, biometric Social Security card. I would like to encourage the administration to go one step further and significantly strengthen the documents workers must use to establish eligibility for employment. “I hope Congress will understand that many sectors of our economy have labor shortages and need additional programs to provide a legal labor supply. Also, a growing number of state and local jurisdictions are passing immigration laws that will make it hard to do business in our country. “In light of these developments, I hope Congress will re-engage on the issue of immigration reform because we need to provide national solutions and remedies to our broken immigration system.” ####
08.09.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced more than $360,000 in grants to fire departments in South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments and rescue squads by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” Grants were awarded in the following program areas: Operations and Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Abbeville Sharon Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $34,493 Operations and Safety grant. Calhoun Falls Calhoun Falls Fire Department will receive a $33,034 Operations and Safety grant. Kershaw Kershaw Fire Department will receive a $60,610 Operations and Safety grant. North Sawyerdale Fire Department will receive a $203,538 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Parksville Parksville Fire Department will receive a $29,796 Operations and Safety grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.09.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced more than $360,000 in grants to fire departments in South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments and rescue squads by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” Grants were awarded in the following program areas: Operations and Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Abbeville Sharon Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $34,493 Operations and Safety grant. Calhoun Falls Calhoun Falls Fire Department will receive a $33,034 Operations and Safety grant. Kershaw Kershaw Fire Department will receive a $60,610 Operations and Safety grant. North Sawyerdale Fire Department will receive a $203,538 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Parksville Parksville Fire Department will receive a $29,796 Operations and Safety grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.03.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced more than $500,000 in grants to fire departments in South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments and rescue squads by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” Grants were awarded in the following program areas: Operations and Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Columbia Irmo Fire District will receive a $70,781 Operations and Safety grant. Donalds Donalds Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $16,530 Operations and Safety grant. Florence Windy Hill Fire Company will receive a $73,806 Operations and Safety grant. Greenville Wade Hampton Fire Department will receive a $124,961 Operations and Safety grant. St. Matthews Caw Caw Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $204,250 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Williamston Piercetown Fire Department will receive a $27,421 Operations and Safety grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Building upon the $3 billion for border security improvements recently adopted in the Department of Homeland Security funding bill, U.S. Sens. Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), Jeff Sessions (R-Ala.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), and John Cornyn (R-Texas) today will introduce a bill to further provide resources to help gain operational control over the borders of the United States, enforce and strengthen interior immigration laws, and create additional penalties for immigration violations. The bill contains some 72 separate provisions, which represent the ideas and insights of numerous Members of Congress, a variety of federal and state agencies affected by illegal immigration, stakeholders, and members of the public. Some of these provisions represent compromise positions adopted by Senators in the last immigration bill, and others contain tough new enforcement provisions. “The debate we had a few weeks ago on immigration reform should not deter Congress from doing what is still needed to secure our borders and reduce illegal immigration,” said Kyl. “We should take what we learned from that debate – that the American people want enforcement – and put it into workable legislation. That’s exactly what we’ve done here. On the whole, the legislation distills many of the lessons that we learned discussing immigration reform in the Senate. Each of the provisions contained in this bill can stand alone on its own merit, or be combined with any other immigration bill.” “Introduction of this bill is consistent with what the American people are asking us to do,” said Sessions. “The bill requires that the Department of Homeland Security complete construction of the full 700 miles of southern border fencing, improve cooperation with state and local law enforcement, and increase enforcement of immigration laws at the workplace. These are important steps toward creating a lawful system of immigration.” “The failure of the Senate to pass comprehensive immigration was a huge disappointment,” said McCain. “Although we must move forward with other issues, we can show the American people that we are serious about securing our nations border. This bill highlights the steps that need to be taken to ensure the integrity of our national security and immigration system, and would provide an essential step toward achieving comprehensive reform in the future.” “Our legislation streamlines deportation proceedings, provides robust border and visa controls, and makes available to local and federal law enforcement more tools to aggressively deal with illegal immigration,” said Graham. “Our immigration system is structurally flawed. There remain at least half a dozen major changes in policy our nation must address to get the problems of illegal immigration under control. This is another step forward in that endeavor.” The bill would authorize significant increases in the number of personnel to patrol the border, staff the ports of entry, prevent smuggling, and investigate immigration violations. It would also increase the amount of fencing, vehicle barriers, physical infrastructure, and technology to observe and deter illegal crossings, and the amount of detention space to hold unlawful aliens. The bill would also mandate that DHS detain unlawful aliens crossing the border until those aliens are removed. It would require that DHS capture biometric data on all foreign nationals legally entering and departing the United States , and identify, track, detain and remove those who overstay their visas. The bill would authorize significant increases in personnel for DHS and the Department of Justice to enforce the immigration laws in the interior of the United States . It would add new legal authorities to prevent the entry and enable the removal of suspected terrorists, aggravated felons, gang members, human smugglers, and other criminals. The bill would add new legal authorities to deter and prosecute crimes against children, to combat smuggling, and to prevent fraud. It would also enhance the ability of state and local law enforcement officers to identify unlawful aliens, and increase funding to states adversely affected by illegal immigration. The bill would enhance laws to prevent the hiring of unlawful aliens in the United States . It would require DHS to establish an employment verification system that would make it easier to identify unauthorized workers, in part through enhanced data-sharing between federal and state agencies. The bill would increase the security and integrity of Social Security cards, and provide funding to assist states in issuing more secure driver’s licenses and identity documents. The bill would increase civil and criminal penalties against employers who knowingly hire unlawful aliens, and persons who misuse identity documents. HIGHLIGHTS · Requires hiring of 14,000 new Border Patrol Agents to secure the borders. · Mandates construction of 700 miles of fence, 300 miles of vehicle barriers, 105 ground-based radars, and four unmanned aerial vehicles. Requires 45,000 detention beds. · Contains a “Catch and Return” provision requiring DHS to detain illegal border crossers. · Requires implementing an entry/exit system at all U.S. ports of entry. · Requires mandatory detention of criminal aliens until removal. · Makes illegal presence in the U.S. a misdemeanor offense. · Makes gang members inadmissible and deportable. · Mandates an electronic employment verification system to end hiring of unlawful aliens. ###
08.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina will receive more than $7.6 million in medical research grants. Awards include: $2,208,151 for oral health research. $2,190,000 for lipidomics and pathobiology research. $2,003,401 for general clinical research. $384,797 for heart and vascular disease research. $292,000 for drug abuse and addiction research. $251,120 for cancer biology research $208,050 for kidney disease, urology and hematology research. $73,000 for neurological disorder research. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
08.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against S. 1, the Senate Democrat’s ethics reform bill. Graham noted the bill fails to address real ethics reform by bring openness to the earmark process. “Unfortunately, our efforts to bring sunlight and transparency to earmark process have been greatly diluted,” said Graham. “This legislation does not require an open and public disclosure of earmarks. It is weak and a vast departure from our original legislation.” Graham noted the House-Senate conference report contained an unusual procedure where the Majority Leader and committee chairman could certify that earmark disclosure met compliance. This process is fraught with potential abuse. “Elected officials should be able to designate money for the states and districts,” said Graham. “But every elected official should have to defend their actions and the merits of the program. The public deserves to know where the funds are going. They also deserve to know whether there is any financial self-interest on behalf of the elected official or their family.” “There is a belief in politics that money is power,” said Graham. “My belief is that the ultimate power an elected official can have is the trust of the people. Congress has lost that trust. “I hoped the ethics reform bill would be an opportunity to restore trust,” said Graham. “Unfortunately, our efforts to bring about real reform were gutted.” ####
08.01.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – As a long-time supporter of the MOX program, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Department of Energy has begun construction of the MOX facility at Savannah River Site (SRS). He made this statement: “Construction of the MOX facility is the culmination of years of hard work and a tribute to the determination of the local community to again answer the nation’s call. “This is great news for the Site and the nation. It is another important step forward. I’m pleased we are continuing to make progress on this national security project. “The MOX program takes surplus weapons grade plutonium and turns it into fuel to power a nuclear reactor. We will be taking tons of weapons grade plutonium off the market. This is a case where the United States is literally taking nuclear swords and turning them into plowshares. “Both the South Carolina and Georgia congressional delegations, along with Governor Sanford, should be commended for their support of this program. We will continue pushing forward on the MOX program. This is an important project to protect our national security for generations to come.” ######
08.01.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he hopes the Senate will bring forward and vote on the nomination of Judge Leslie Southwick, President Bush’s nominee to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals. Judge Southwick’s nomination has been held up in the Senate Judiciary Committee of which Graham is a member. “In recent years, the confirmation process for judges has taken a turn for the worse,” said Graham. “One thing I would like to have happen, for the good of the country, is make sure that when well-qualified people come before the Senate they are put through their paces. We should ask about their qualifications, abilities, disposition, character, demeanor, inquire as to how they think, and what drives their thinking. “At the same time, we must understand our job is to confirm people who were nominated by the President. Elections do matter,” said Graham. “When we look at a nominee, we should put aside the politics of the last election, of the next election, and focus on the individual.” Graham noted Judge Southwick has been serving as a judge in Mississippi since 1995. He’s been involved in thousands of decisions in a concurring role and authored hundreds of decisions. In addition, he volunteered as a Lieutenant Colonel to serve in Iraq at the age of 52. The American Bar Association unanimously considered him well-qualified and said glowing things about his temperament and disposition. “Judge Southwick has lived a good life in the law and from all indications, is a good person,” said Graham. “The objections raised by Democrats are not questions of character or intellect. This debate is about two legal cases. My question is: Do you take these two cases where he concurred to say there is something wrong with him? Did he do something out of the mainstream of the law? Does it show he is not the type of person you would want to sit in judgment of your case or your family?” “I think what we are doing to this fine nominee is incredibly unfair,” said Graham. “There is no real evidence this man harbors animosity against one group or another, quite the contrary. From everything that I have seen in the record, he is a very decent, scholarly man who has applied the law in an admirable fashion. I hope Democrats will allow an up-or-down vote and I will continue to push for one.” ####
08.01.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the University of South Carolina will receive a $2,133,741 grant to conduct colon cancer research, and a $366,500 grant for heart and vascular disease research. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
07.30.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Barnwell County will receive a $462,812 grant for airport improvements at Barnwell Regional Airport. Last week, Graham announced a $1.06 million grant for the airport. “South Carolina’s airports are a vital part of our state’s transportation infrastructure and play an integral role in our economy,” said Graham. “These improvements will help recruit future investment and economic development.” The funds will be used to rehabilitate a runway and apron, and for a lighting and marking project. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
07.30.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Richland County will receive a $1,939,882 grant for airport improvements at Columbia Owens Downtown Airport. “South Carolina’s airports are a vital part of our state’s transportation infrastructure and play an integral role in our economy,” said Graham. “These improvements will help recruit future investment and economic development.” The funds will be used to rehabilitate a runway and to design an apron/taxiway rehabilitation project. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
07.30.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced more than $950,000 in grants to fire departments and rescue squads in South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments and rescue squads by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” Grants were awarded in the following program areas: Operations and Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Chesterfield Chesterfield County Rescue Squad Unit 2 will receive a $96,900 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Hartsville Hartsville Rescue Squad will receive an $81,000 Vehicle Acquisition grant. Ladson Caromi Fire Department will receive a $95,000 Operations and Safety grant. Lugoff Pine Grove Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $533,760 Operations and Safety grant. Newberry Newberry County Rescue Squad will receive a $98,071 Operations and Safety grant. Piedmont Powdersville Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $35,550 Operations and Safety grant. Williamston Williamston Rescue Squad will receive a $15,825 Operations and Safety grant.. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
07.30.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Rock Hill will receive $392,040 in federal funds to assess the feasibility of a downtown trolley circulator. “This is great news for Rock Hill,” said Graham. “The City should be commended for looking at new ways to address public transportation and downtown redevelopment.” Graham secured the funds in the Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Bill. The funding was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
07.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was very pleased the Senate accepted his amendment to provide $3 billion for increased border security and interior enforcement measures. The vote was 89-1. "In the age of terrorism, regaining operational control of our nation’s borders is a national security issue of the highest order," said Graham. "There is no doubt we need better border security at our southern border including more boots on the ground, more miles of fencing, better technology which acts as a force multiplier, additional detention beds, and unmanned aerial vehicles. My amendment provides funding for these important and much-needed changes in federal policy. "I’m pleased with the overwhelming support for my amendment," said Graham. "It’s a confidence builder in showing the American people we are serious about border security. Regaining operational control of our nation’s borders is the gateway to further reforms of our broken immigration system." The Graham amendment ensures and requires: The U.S. government to establish and demonstrate operational control over 100 percent of the international land and maritime borders between the U.S. and Mexico. Provides funding to construct the 700 miles of fencing as required under the Secure Fence Act. Provides funding for hiring, training, and placing on duty 23,000 Customs and Border Patrol agents. Permanently ends ‘Catch and Release’ by providing the resources necessary to detain up to 45,000 aliens per day. Provides funding for 300 miles of vehicle barriers at the border. Provides funding for 105 ground-based radar and camera towers. Provides funding for the deployment of 4 unmanned aerial vehicles at the border. Provides funding to handle the deportation of absconders and visa overstays. "The term ‘operational control’ is a military term, and I look at this effort to secure our border as a military operation," said Graham. "We are serious about border security and this again shows the commitment to do whatever is necessary to regain control of our borders." Graham noted many of the border security protection provisions accepted today were contained in the Senate immigration bill and the Graham-Kyl-Martinez amendment which was debated last month. He also noted there remain at least half a dozen, major changes in policy our nation must address to get the problems of illegal immigration under control. "The comprehensive approach failed but the problems posed by illegal immigration have not gone away," said Graham. "We are now addressing the major changes one piece at a time. This is a strong first step in a long journey toward reforming our broken immigration system. "We still need a more robust electronic employee verification system (EEVS), a merit-based immigration system, assimilation programs to ensure people understand English, a method to ensure everyone is paying taxes, a temporary guest worker program for people who want to come here, make money and return to their home country, and other changes," said Graham. "This is the beginning of a longer, more drawn out effort to reform our nation’s immigration practices." #####
07.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today offered an amendment to the Department of Homeland Security funding legislation appropriating $3 billion for increased border security efforts. “There are at least half a dozen major changes in policy we have to make as a nation to get the problems of illegal immigration under control,” said Graham. “The comprehensive approach, where we made all the necessary changes in one fell swoop, failed. Just because it failed does not mean the problems posed by illegal immigration have gone away. “We’re now moving to Plan B,” said Graham. “That will require us to address the major changes that must be made a piece at a time. Today, we’re addressing border security, visa overstays, sanctuary cities, and other important issues. There’s no doubt that operational control of our southern border is a national security imperative. We must regain control of our border and this much-need emergency funding will play an important role in making that happen.” Graham noted Congressman Rahm Emanuel, a leading member of the Democratic House leadership, recently said comprehensive immigration reform will have to wait at least six years until the second term of a prospective Democratic presidency. “Unlike Congressman Emanuel, I do not believe we can wait years to address our nation’s pressing and urgent immigration problems,” said Graham. “My amendment contains many of the provisions that were in the Senate immigration bill and Graham-Kyl-Martinez. These are the provisions of immigration reform where there is broad consensus. They should be enacted.” The Graham Amendment is cosponsored by Senators Judd Gregg (R-New Hampshire), John Cornyn (R-TX), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), Jeff Sessions (R-AL), John McCain (R-AZ), Mitch McConnell (R-KY), Mel Martinez (R-FL), Arlen Specter (R-PA), and John Sununu (R-NH). The major provisions include additional funding and policy changes affecting our nation’s border security and interior enforcement efforts: Border Security: The U.S. government must achieve full operational control over 100 percent of the U.S.-Mexico land border. The hiring, training and deploying of 23,000 Border Patrol agents. 4 unmanned aerial vehicles and 105 ground-based radar and camera towers. 300 miles of permanent vehicle barriers and 700 miles of border fencing. 45,000 detention beds to put a permanent end to ‘Catch and Release.’ Interior Enforcement: Requires a total of 14,500 new Customs & Border Patrol (CBP) agents through Fiscal Year 2012 – a total of approximately 30,000 CBP agents overall – as well as increased hires of new Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents. Addresses the issue of Sanctuary Cities by prohibiting cities from banning the obtaining of information on immigration status by their own law enforcement agencies. Builds upon the King Amendment in the House of Representatives, which grants civil liability protection to those who report possible threats to our nation’s transportation system. Provides additional funding for Operation Jump Start which maintains a National Guard presence along the Southern border. Strengthens current law on criminal aliens to deny immigration benefits to aggravated felons, gang members, terrorists, sex offenders, and child abusers. The bill also expands the Institutional Removal Program and gives the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) the ability to detain criminal aliens for an extended period of time before they can be removed. Gives states and local law enforcement new authorities to detain illegal aliens and transfer them into DHS custody. It also allows state and local law enforcement authorities to use homeland security grants for 287(g) training and provides funding to cover the costs of detaining and transporting criminal aliens. Addresses Visa Overstays by requiring DHS to detain aliens who willfully overstay their period of authorized admission for more than 60 days. Addresses illegal reentry by increasing criminal penalties and sets mandatory minimum prison sentences for aliens who have been removed and illegally re-enter our country. Provides for Expedited Removal by restricting the impact of outdated court injunctions that currently prevent DHS from transferring certain illegal immigrants into expedited removal and returning them to their country of origin as soon as circumstances allow. Addresses US-Visit and Entry Inspecting by clarifying DHS’s authority to collect biometric entry and exit data at U.S. ports of entry. It also requires DHS to provide Congress a timeline for implementing US-VISIT at all land border ports of entry. Requires DHS to enhance Basic Pilot Program to help facilitate broader us by employers as well as improve accuracy and efficiency. “What we do today in my amendment is an important step, but certainly not the only step, to get a handle on illegal immigration,” said Graham. “As a nation, we still need a more robust electronic employee verification system (EEVS), a merit-based immigration system, assimilation programs to ensure people understand English, a method to ensure everyone is paying taxes, a temporary guest worker program for people who want to come here, make money and return to their home country, and other changes.” “We are serious about border security and this again shows the commitment to do whatever is necessary to regain control of our borders,” said Graham. “The sooner we get a handle on the problems associated with illegal immigration, the better off our nation will be. “This amendment is a step in the right direction and the beginning of what I expect will be a longer, more drawn out effort to reform our nation’s immigration practices,” concluded Graham. #####
07.23.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina will receive more than $11 million for homeland security initiatives throughout the state. South Carolina will receive: $6,130,000 from the State Homeland Security Program. These funds build capabilities at the state and local level through planning, equipment, training, and exercise activities. Funds may also be used to support the implementation of state homeland security strategies and key elements of the national preparedness architecture. $4,380,000 from the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program. These funds support law enforcement and public safety activities to prevent terrorist attacks, such as establishing and enhancing fusion centers and collaborating with non-law enforcement partners. $258,145 from the Metropolitan Medical Response System. These funds support planning and preparation activities for large-scale medical response for any catastrophic event. $232,655 from the Citizen Corp Program. These funds are used to support activities that promote community involvement in emergency preparedness, planning, mitigation, response, and recovery. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
07.23.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced $10.5 million in federal grants for airports in South Carolina. “South Carolina’s airports are a vital part of our state’s transportation infrastructure and play an integral role in our economy,” said Graham. “These improvements will help recruit future investment and economic development.” Award recipients in South Carolina include: Anderson South Carolina Department of Transportation will receive a $294,000 grant to conduct several statewide studies to address capital improvement plans, analysis of military airspace, and security. The funds will be used for the installation of perimeter fencing at Anderson Regional Airport. Barnwell Barnwell County will receive a $1,062,863 grant to rehabilitate the taxiway and apron at Barnwell Regional Airport. Berkeley Berkeley County will receive a $374,590 grant to extend the taxiway at Berkeley County Airport. Charleston Charleston County Aviation Authority will receive a $1,322,520 grant to improve the access road at Charleston AFB/International Airport. These funds will be added to a previously awarded grant of $1,798,687. Chester Chester County will receive a $51,344 grant to design apron expansions at Chester Catawba Regional Airport. Clarendon Clarendon County will receive a $526,451 grant for the construction of a hangar, apron, and taxiway at Santee Cooper Regional Airport. Colleton Walterboro will receive a $2,721,929 grant for construction of a taxiway at Lowcountry Regional Airport. Dorchester Dorchester County will receive a $126,250 grant to install perimeter fencing at the Summerville Airport. Florence Pee Dee Regional Airport Authority will receive a $288,325 grant to aid in the purchase of a new aircraft rescue and firefighting vehicle and baggage conveyor system at Florence Regional Airport. Georgetown Georgetown County will receive a $1,486,987 grant to extend a runway at Georgetown County Airport. Greenwood Greenwood County will receive a $258,409 grant to construct a hangar at Greenwood County Airport. Horry Horry County will receive a $40,000 grant to design a fuel farm and access road at the Conway-Horry County Airport. Kershaw Kershaw County will receive an $858,800 grant to construct a taxiway at Woodward Field. Lee Lee County will receive a $39,000 grant to design a taxiway and paved apron at Lee County-Butters Field. Lexington Lexington County will receive a $385,146 grant to install runway lighting at the Lexington County Pelion Airport. Marlboro Marlboro County will receive a $96,425 grant for land acquisition at the Marlboro County Jetport-H.E. Avant Field. Orangeburg The City of Orangeburg will receive a $110,000 grant to expand the apron at Orangeburg Municipal Airport. Pickens Pickens County will receive a $238,000 grant to design a new terminal building and to conduct a runway end survey at the Pickens County Airport. Saluda Saluda County will receive a $63,650 grant to install a runway vertical/visual guidance system at the Saluda County Airport. Sumter The City of Sumter will receive a $150,000 grant to construct a taxiway at Sumter Airport. Williamsburg Williamsburg County will receive a $61,233 grant to improve the runway safety area at Williamsburg Regional Airport. All grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
07.18.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on his opposition to the Levin-Reed amendment which mandates American troop withdrawals from Iraq beginning in 120 days. All American troops would need to be out of Iraq by May 2008. The amendment was defeated in the Senate by a vote of 52-47. After the amendment was defeated, the Democratic leadership of the Senate decided to pull the defense authorization bill from the floor. The legislation contains provisions to increase pay and benefits, and make available better equipment for our troops. Graham on the Defeat of the Levin-Reed Amendment: “This approach would be a disaster for our national security interests both in Iraq and throughout the Middle East. Al Qaeda is now on the run in Iraq. They would welcome and rejoice over an American plan to withdraw from the fight. Local Iraqi populations are beginning to reject Al Qaeda and align themselves with us. We are now taking territory from Al Qaeda in Iraq and holding it with the assistance of the local population. “A congressional mandate to withdraw would be heart-breaking and in all honesty a death sentence, to the Iraqi’s who are aligning with us against Al Qaeda in Iraq. Had the Levin-Reed resolution passed, this ill-advised approach would have offered tremendous encouragement and spirit to our Al Qaeda enemies in Iraq. It would have been international news that the United States does not have the stomach for this fight. I’m proud of the role I played in rejecting this amendment. “I believe it is important to give General Petraeus time to implement his new strategy for Iraq and to hear what he has to say when he comes before Congress in September. Other Republicans, including some who were looking for the exits, stiffened their resolve after hearing about the progress being made on the ground with to the new strategy. The surge is having an effect, both in Iraq and Washington.” Graham on the Democratic Leadership’s Decision to Pull the Bill from the Senate Floor: “The common ground we had in the Senate on pay raises, better equipment and improved health care for our troops gave way to the politics of the next election. The Democratic leadership’s decision to pull the bill is yet another example of their choosing politics over policy. I’m embarrassed for the Senate because we failed to focus on the needs and welfare of our troops. “While the troops continue to make us proud, the Congress continues to disappoint.”
07.16.2007	Wes HIckman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham was a guest on NBC Meet the Press on Sunday, July 15. Here is the video of the show and Senator Graham’s thoughts on the current situation in Iraq and the political debate in the U.S. Senate. The video is located on the Meet the Press website at http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/3032608.
07.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased with the decision by the U.S. Department of Agriculture to appoint Earle Joiner Bedenbaugh of Newberry County to serve on the Farm Service Agency’s state committee in South Carolina. “I’m very pleased President Bush has decided to appoint Earle to this most important position,” said Graham. “Earle has been a successful agri-businessman and is one of the finest individuals you will ever meet. He understands our state’s agricultural community and will represent us well in this important position.” FSA state committees are responsible for the general direction and supervision of state FSA programs. Committees keep farmers informed of agency program activities while resolving appeals and complaints. Members also maintain cooperative relationships with the agribusiness community. Bedenbaugh has farmed for 32 years specializing in seed production, beef cattle and forestry. As part of the farming operation, he conditioned and processed seed for wholesale and retail sales. Bedenbaugh was deputy administrator for state and county operations under the former Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) in Washington, D.C. He also was the ASCS state executive director and a member of the ASCS state committee in South Carolina. Bedenbaugh is very active in many agricultural, government and civic organizations. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in animal husbandry from Clemson University in South Carolina and served in the U.S. Air Force in the Korean War. #####
07.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today traveled to the White House to meet with President Bush and discuss the current situation in Iraq . He made this statement after the Oval Office meeting. “I appreciate the opportunity to meet with President Bush and brief him on my recent visit to Iraq . “President Bush remains firm in his belief that we must give General Petraeus and our troops time to carry out the new strategy. He understands the new strategy has already greatly diminished Al Qaeda in Iraq . The military progress is undeniable, even if the Iraqi political reconciliation efforts have not been as successful. “General Petraeus is making great progress in crushing Al Qaeda in Iraq . Al Qaeda overplayed their hand by engaging in incredible acts of brutality and barbarism against Iraqis living under their control. In turn, Iraqis are breaking free from them and joining forces with us. The only thing that would allow Al Qaeda in Iraq to make a comeback would be to prematurely stop the surge. "The defeat of Al Qaeda in Iraq should be our Number 1 priority. It will lead to a more stable Iraq and a safer world.” #####
07.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Senators Lieberman, McCain, Kyl, Graham, and Coleman today introduced a bipartisan amendment to the Defense Authorization Act, confronting the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran over its proxy attacks on American soldiers in Iraq . The amendment details the publicly available evidence put forward over the past year by General David Petraeus, commanding general of Multi-National Force Iraq, and others about Iran’s violent and destabilizing activities in Iraq . The amendment states that “the murder of members of the United States Armed Forces by a foreign government or its agents is an intolerable act of hostility against the United States,” and demands the government of Iran “take immediate action” to end all forms of support it is providing to Iraqi militias and insurgents. The amendment also mandates a regular report on Iran’s anti-coalition activity in Iraq . “For many months, our military commanders and diplomats have warned us that the Iranian government has been training, equipping, arming, and funding proxies in Iraq who are murdering our troops,” said Senator Lieberman. “This amendment is a common sense, common ground statement of the Senate to Tehran : we know what you are doing, and you must stop.” “American officials attest that the government in Teheran seeks to bleed the United States and render unsuccessful our efforts to bring about a stable and self-governing in Iraq ,” said Senator McCain. “This amendment will send a clear signal: Iran’s activities in Iraq are wrong, and they must end immediately.” “The Iranians are attempting to thwart our policies in the Middle East by actively supporting terrorists who are killing our troops in Iraq ,” said Senator Kyl. “It is time we acknowledge this hostility against us, and this amendment tells the Iranians we will not tolerate any actions which threaten our troops or allies.” “The evidence is increasingly clear the Iranian government is working to destabilize the Iraqi government,” said Senator Graham. “It is long past time for Congress to speak out about this destructive behavior by Iran . We need one voice, and I expect it will be a unified bipartisan voice, speaking out and condemning these actions by the Iranian government.” “The United States will not tolerate Iran’s hostile attempts to sabotage our efforts in the Middle East region,” said Senator Coleman. “On my last trip to Iraq, our Minnesota troops in Southern Iraq showed me Iranian-made explosives that were used against them on convoy missions. This crucial amendment makes it clear to the Iranian government, and any other government in the region that seeks to harm our soldiers, that providing any form of support to Iraqi insurgents will not be tolerated and must cease immediately.” ####
07.03.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Claflin University will receive a $2,499,999 scientific research grant. The funds will be used for a project entitled, “Implementation: Building Successful Models for Research and Inquiry-Based Learning and Teaching." The grant was awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
06.28.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate immigration bill. “Several months ago, I met with President Bush at the White House to discuss our out-of-control problems with illegal immigration. He asked me if I would help him push immigration reform through Congress and I gave him my word I would. I support President Bush and admire his leadership. I will be forever grateful for his work to try and solve this difficult problem. “President Bush and I made it clear we would not compromise on our guiding principle that securing our nation’s borders must be our first priority. Our plan made unprecedented efforts and provided over $4.4 billion in funding to secure our nation’s borders and deal with immigration in a comprehensive manner. “The legislation first and foremost secured our border. It also established a new comprehensive employee verification system for all workers to ensure people are in the country legally and eligible to work. We were going to break the cycle of chain migration and institute a new merit-based immigration system to attract the best and brightest from around the world. And we were instituting a temporary guest worker program to meet our nation’s labor needs. “If the bill’s failing leads to Congress finding a better solution, then the American people will have won. If the status quo and broken immigration system continue to go unaddressed, then the American people lost. I do fear our failure to act will only allow the problem of illegal immigration to grow worse and the anger felt by some Americans will grow more intense. “I worry that local and state governments will begin to act more aggressively and create a hodge-podge of laws. While the President’s legislation was not perfect, it was honest, realistic and an improvement over current law. Secretary of Homeland Security Chertoff, who is responsible for enforcing our nation’s immigration laws, made it clear that in some cases the tools he needs to control illegal immigration are either non-existent or very weak. I’m disappointed some of the tools he wanted and desperately needed to control illegal immigration were left on the Senate floor. “The American people have a historically low view of Congress. We seem unable to do the public’s business and find consensus on difficult issues. “Finally, I want to say a few words about my friend and colleague Jim DeMint. We found ourselves in an unusual situation. While we usually agree, President Bush and I have very different views from Jim on the best way to address this contentious issue. Jim held firm to his beliefs and was a very strong advocate for his position.” #####
06.27.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 New York Times Editorial says Graham Amendment Creates ‘Gitmos Across America’ to Hold Illegal Immigrants “One of the worst amendments comes from Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina. It would impose mandatory detention of all people who overstay their visas. …The cells would be full of people who shouldn’t be there: asylum seekers, the elderly, pregnant women, the sick and those ensnared in paperwork mistakes. Children, like the kindergartners in inmate scrubs walking the halls of a federal detention center outside Austin, Tex. Day laborers, like those in suburban Brewster, N.Y., whose arrests were hailed by a mayor who spoke proudly of his community’s “zero tolerance” for people unlawfully playing soccer in a schoolyard. The country already detains some 230,000 immigrants a year, at an annual cost of $1.2 billion. Under the current immigration bill, it would build tens of thousands more beds to hold detainees. And it would need many more — Guantánamo Bays across America — if Mr. Graham’s zero-tolerance vision is fully realized.” Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce Supports Immigration Reform “Immigration reform is a federal issue and we support efforts to achieve a national solution to this challenge to support a uniform approach. We oppose any local approach to regulating immigration on the basis that regulation must be consistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We need immigration laws that are fair and balanced. These laws must meet the needs of our growing economy and the test of common sense. Only through this kind of comprehensive approach can an effective solution be reached. Securing the national borders is important, but it cannot be accomplished in isolation.” Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce Supports Immigration Reform “The current system is clearly broken and we believe the status quo is unacceptable. Municipalities and counties throughout South Carolina, as well as our state government, are reacting to a lack of action at the federal level with a patchwork of immigration laws and enforcement. We fear that local mandates and piecemeal approaches will be unnecessarily costly and expose law-abiding employers to unfair liability. This would ultimately undermine our economic strength and negatively impact our station and our nation.” Charleston Post & Courier Editorial ‘Revive Immigration Reform’ “The Senate shouldn't heed ill-informed foes of the immigration bill, but rather the general public's agreement on realistic reform. The bill's foes should abandon legislative obstructionism and offer practical counter-proposals. Otherwise, we'll again be stuck with the illegal-immigration status quo, a de facto "amnesty.” Washington Times ‘Labor Groups, Hispanics hit Senate bill’ “Labor and Hispanic groups yesterday told senators to scrap their immigration bill and go back to the drawing board, saying that the proposal now before the Senate has become too harsh on illegal aliens and a poor deal for U.S. workers.” Washington Times Says New Study Shows Senate Bill Breaking Chain Migration “…a new evaluation released by the Migration Policy Institute (MPI) yesterday found that the Senate bill would reduce family-based immigration from about two-thirds of current permanent visas to less than half. Employment-based visas would go from less than one-fifth to about two-fifths. The MPI evaluation said the new point system called for in the bill would also shift the profile of new legal immigrants away from Latin American and Caribbean countries and toward Asian countries, particularly India, China and the Philippines, where recent immigrants have had better English skills and higher educational attainment.” Fox News Channel Brit Hume on Fox News Sunday “What strikes me about this argument that's made by the opponents of the bill is that they can't really dispute that there's a lot of good stuff in here and strong stuff on border enforcement. And what they say, when you cite that to them, is they say, "Well, we don't believe them," which is the point Charles [Krauthammer] is making. "We don't believe it." On the other hand, I wonder if you put the question to them, if this was only border enforcement stuff, would you be for passing that and spending $4.4 billion, and how many more billions of dollars that it might cost to do it -- I assume the answer would be yes, to which my question would be, "Well, why would you be for that if you don't believe it?" U.S. Chamber Of Commerce, National Restaurant Association, Business Roundtable, National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), And National Federation Of Independent Business (NFIB) "As trade associations representing the full spectrum of the American economy, we applaud the hard work of a bipartisan team of senators and the Administration for their role in crafting S.1348. We realize that many difficult issues will remain, but it is critical that the process moves forward.” American Farm Bureau Federation President Bob Stallman on the Immigration Bill “Farmers need a comprehensive immigration reform bill approved this Congress. ... We have been pushing for a solution for years and we simply cannot wait any longer for Congress to address this issue.”
06.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the procedural motion to move the Senate immigration bill debate forward. Graham voted in support of the motion which passed 64-35. “The Senate must move forward in fixing our broken immigration system. It’s a national disgrace to allow the current chaos to continue. While the reform legislation is not perfect, it is a substantial improvement over current law. “The legislation immediately makes available $4.4 billion in mandatory spending to secure our nation’s borders. Funds will be spent on miles of new fencing, miles of new vehicle barriers, surveillance towers, detention beds, the Electronic Employee Verification System (EEVS), and other enforcement programs. The legislation also reclaims control of our nation's borders by adding thousands of new Border Patrol agents. “Right now, there are more than 1,100 proposed state laws and countless other proposed laws at the city and county level dealing with illegal immigration. If Congress does not act this year, local and state governments will fill the vacuum and pass a hodge-podge of laws which will be nearly-impossible to comply with. “Constructive criticism has led to many improvements in the original legislation. I expect more amendments may be adopted during the next few days of debate. “People are skeptical -- and with good reason -- but we cannot allow this skepticism lead to inaction. If we do not address immigration reform now the problem will only get worse – not better.” #####
06.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released a June 19 letter from the Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce expressing support for comprehensive immigration reform. “The current system is clearly broken and we believe the status quo is unacceptable,” wrote Brad Dean, President and CEO of the Myrtle Beach Area Chamber of Commerce. “Municipalities and counties throughout South Carolina, as well as our state government, are reacting to a lack of action at the federal level with a patchwork of immigration laws and enforcement. “We fear that local mandates and piecemeal approaches will be unnecessarily costly and expose law-abiding employers to unfair liability,” said Dean. “This would ultimately undermine our economic strength and negatively impact our station and our nation.” The Chamber encouraged Senator Graham to continue working on immigration reform to ensure the final legislation contains stronger border security, a way to recruit future workers through the H2B visa program, a workable employment verification system that will be usable by small businesses, and a measure to ensure current undocumented, law-abiding workers whose skills and employability are necessary to be eligible for legal status. “The Myrtle Beach Area Chamber and its members realize that many difficult issues remain; however it is critical that the process moves forward,” concluded Dean. “We support your efforts and urge you to continue to work with the business community as legislation proceeds through the amendment process.” “I appreciate the Myrtle Beach Chamber for taking a stand on this important issue for the future of our state and nation,” said Graham. “I understand no two people or organizations will agree on every provision in a major piece of legislation such as this. We cannot hope and wait for the perfect solution to suddenly come forward because with the passage of time this problem only gets worse, not better. “Much is at stake for the Senate and the nation as we resume debate on immigration reform,” continued Graham. “We have a chance to prove that we still have the ability to solve hard problems or we can choose to reinforce growing skepticism about our government and fall further in the eyes of the American people.” #####
06.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 ‘TOUCHBACK’ Z-VISA APPLICANTS MUST LEAVE THE UNITED STATES TO BECOME A Z-VISA HOLDER The legislation has been criticized for allowing z-visa applicants to stay in the United States indefinitely in z-visa status. Others have claimed said z-visa holders will never have to leave the United States. The illegal alien head of household – currently residing in the United States -- will have to leave our country within 3 years and return to their home country. Once in their home country, they can complete their z-visa application. After 3 years, if the illegal alien has not 1) left the United States, 2) returned to their home country, 3) submitted the appropriate paperwork from their home country, then their probationary status will be revoked. They will be deported along with their spouse and any non-American citizen children. VISA OVERSTAYS Approximately 40 percent of the illegal aliens in the United States today did not come across our nation’s southern border. They came to the United States legally on visas and simply refused to leave the when their visa expired. The Graham-Kyl-Martinez amendment builds upon a provision already in the bill requiring mandatory jail time of at least 60 days to a maximum of 1 year in jail for aliens who illegally reenter the United States after being deported. Graham-Kyl-Martinez would: PERMANENTLY bar from the United States any alien who overstays their visa. Aliens who overstay their visa by more than 60 days will be apprehended, detained, and deported. Establishes and deploys a biometric tracking system that records the entry and exit of all temporary workers and visiting family members to ensure we have a record of who overstayed a visa. If the alien refuses to depart in a timely manner, DHS will – within 48 hours – enter the alien’s name in a database of overstays accessible for local, state, and immigration law enforcement officials. Authorizes an increase of 6,250 Immigration and Customs Enforcement personnel hired to carry out the removal of illegal aliens, to investigate immigration fraud, and to enforce illegal hiring at the workplace. 24 HOUR BACKGROUND CHECKS The bill has been criticized for allowing probationary status to be granted to z-visa applicants 24 hours after they file an application, even if the alien has not yet passed all appropriate background checks. The Graham-Kyl-Martinez amendment addresses those concerns. Ensures probationary status will only be granted after passing all appropriate background checks regardless of how long it takes for DHS to complete them. Z-visa applicants can pre-register online with DHS to speed their application and to make appointments for getting their fingerprints taken. GANG MEMBERS NEED NOT APPLY FOR A Z-VISA Critics have said illegal alien gang members will be allowed to receive legal status under the legislation. Graham-Kyl-Martinez makes it clear that gang members – even those who have renounced their gang ‘membership’ – are ineligible for the z-visa program. CHILD MOLESTORS NEED NOT APPLY FOR A Z-VISA Critics have said some child molesters will be allowed to receive legal status under the legislation. Graham-Kyl-Martinez makes clear that illegal aliens convicted of sexual abuse on a minor are ineligible regardless of when the offense occurred. ADDRESSES VISA OVERSTAYS USING THE ‘PARENT’ VISA Critics of the legislation have criticized the new ‘parent’ visa which allows parents of American citizens and the spouses and children of temporary workers to visit a worker in the United States. Graham-Kyl-Martinez raises the bond for visiting family members from $1,000 to $2,500 to help ensure they depart when their visa is up. Overstay provisions described above apply to the ‘parent’ visa holders. ILLEGAL ALIEN DRUNK DRIVERS FACE HARSHER STANDARDS Illegal aliens who have 2 state or federal convictions or 1 felony conviction for drunk driving will not be allowed to gain legal status.
06.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College and the Orangeburg-Calhoun Area Technical Education Commission will receive a $1.5 million grant for the construction of the Transportation Workforce Training Center. “A well-educated, well-trained workforce is a key component to future economic development,” said Graham. “South Carolina’s technical colleges are continuing to play a leading role in ensuring our state’s workforce is ready and capable of meeting the challenges of the 21st Century economy. This grant is great news for the local community and an important investment in the future of Orangeburg and Calhoun counties.” The U.S. Department of Commerce estimates that the project will create 544 jobs and generate $420 million in private investment. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration. ####
06.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Department of Public Safety will receive a $5,350,000 grant to enhance crime victim services in the state. The funds will be competitively awarded by the state to local community-based organizations that provide direct services to crime victims. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
06.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina’s Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) will receive $14.7 million in grants for institutional aid. The funds can be used to strengthen academic resources, financial management, endowments, and physical plants. Award recipients include: Allen University- $1,068,878 Benedict College- $2,604,848 Claflin University- $1,956,641 Clinton Junior College- $500,000 Denmark Technical College- $2,075,869 Morris College- $1,600,029 South Carolina State University- $3,297,873 Voorhees College- $1,694,171 The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
06.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today released a June 20 letter from Charles H. Van Rysselberge, the President and CEO of the Charleston Metro Chamber of Commerce expressing their support for the Senate’s comprehensive immigration reform bill. “Immigration reform is a federal issue and we support efforts to achieve a national solution to this challenge to support a uniform approach,” wrote Van Rysselberge. “We oppose any local approach to regulating immigration on the basis that regulation must be consistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. “We need immigration laws that are fair and balanced,” continued Van Rysselberge. “These laws must meet the needs of our growing economy and the test of common sense. Only through this kind of comprehensive approach can an effective solution be reached. Securing the national borders is important, but it cannot be accomplished in isolation.” “I appreciate the Charleston Metro Chamber for taking a stand on this important issue for the future of our state and nation,” said Graham. “Much is at stake for the Senate and the nation as we resume debate on immigration reform. We have a chance to prove that we still have the ability to solve hard problems or we can choose to reinforce growing skepticism about our government and fall further in the eyes of the American people.” #####
06.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Senate unanimously passed a resolution honoring the nine Charleston firefighters killed in the line of duty Monday evening. Graham introduced the resolution along with Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) and others. “All South Carolinians are indebted to these brave men who gave their lives to protect others,” said Graham. “Today we honor the commitment and sacrifice of these men and all firefighters throughout the country. I thank my colleagues for joining together to honor these American heroes and extend our deepest sympathies to their families.” ####
06.20.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the current situation involving the office of South Carolina Treasurer. “Governor Sanford chose wisely in picking Ken Wingate to serve as our state’s interim Treasurer. Ken is a good man and I know he will do a fine job for the people of South Carolina. “I have great respect and admiration for the Ravenel family. I know this is a traumatic event. Like any other citizen, Thomas Ravenel should be presumed to be innocent. The government has the burden of proving the charges against him. I have confidence the legal system will fairly deal with the accusations.” #####
06.19.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – South Carolina’s United States Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint submitted this statement today into the Congressional Record. – South Carolina’s United States Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint submitted this statement today into the Congressional Record. "On June 18, 2007, in the face of blazing fire, sacrifice and duty overcame fear and surrender. With great sadness and the utmost respect, we mourn the tremendous loss of nine of our finest firefighters, as well as the immeasurable loss experienced by their families and loved ones. As the flames engulfed the building, the brave men and women of the Charleston County Fire Department rushed into the collapsing building as others were running out, fleeing for their lives. May this extraordinary courage and sacrifice forever reflect the spirit of South Carolina, as well as that of our great Nation. "We extend our sincerest condolences to their families, their colleagues, and their friends. You give your loved ones to us—to serve and protect our communities, putting public service above personal comfort. Our gratitude is boundless and our respect infinitely deep. We grieve beside you, and we take pride in and are humbled by this ultimate display of service and valor. In the midst of grief and devastation, may you find comfort in knowing that the memory of your loved ones will be forever etched in the minds of South Carolinians as the true embodiment of an American Hero. "The United States has not experienced such a devastating loss of firefighters since the horrific events on September 11, 2001. May the Charleston County Fire Department, led by Chief Rusty Thomas, as well as emergency personnel around the country, forever fill this massive void with the legacy left behind by these brave fallen firefighters. Let their legacy not be engulfed by flames and reduced to rubble but rather let it embolden and encourage others to serve in their honor and continue their mission to public service. There is no higher call than to serve, and to the fallen, their families, and those that will fill their shoes, we are forever indebted to you for your noble sacrifices." #####
06.15.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the agreement to bring the immigration reform bill back to the floor. The Senate will resume debate on immigration possibly as soon as next week. Graham said: “After 9-11 immigration reform is not just a social and economic problem, but also a national security issue of the highest importance. I am pleased that the Senate leadership is going to bring the immigration reform bill back to the floor for further debate and amendment. This is a great opportunity for the Senate, in a bipartisan fashion, to reform a chaotic immigration system. “The challenge is to bring to the table workable solutions instead of political rhetoric that embraces the unrealistic and caters to fear. I hope the Senate can rise to the occasion because if we fail it will be years before this issue is dealt with again, and the current chaos will continue to grow. “Much is at stake for the Senate and the country as we resume debate on immigration reform. We have a chance to prove to the American people that we still have the ability to solve hard problems, or we can choose to reinforce growing skepticism about our government and fall further in the eyes of the American people. “As elected leaders of the world’s greatest democracy I hope we will choose to make tough decisions and not pass this problem on to the next generation of political leaders. I understand the public skepticism about any effort to reform immigration. However, skepticism should never be used as an excuse for inaction.” ####
06.14.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- President Bush today came out strongly in support of U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham’s (R-South Carolina) proposed amendment to the Senate immigration bill requiring mandatory funding for border security and enforcement provisions contained in the legislation. “The moment the presidential signing pen meets the paper these funds will be available,” said Graham. “I’m very pleased President Bush has embraced the Graham-Kyl Amendment requiring mandatory funding for border security and enforcement.” Today, in a speech to the Associated Builders and Contractors President Bush said, “We're going to show the American people that the promises in this bill will be kept” and that the legislation would also “show the American people that we’re going to do our jobs of securing this border once and for all.” Graham’s proposed amendment, introduced with Senator Jon Kyl (R-Arizona), will immediately make available $4.4 billion in mandatory spending to secure our nation’s borders. Funds will be spent on miles of new fencing, miles of new vehicle barriers, surveillance towers, detention beds, the Electronic Employee Verification System (EEVS), and other enforcement programs. The penalties paid by z-visa holders as a condition of their punishment and probation would reimburse taxpayers for the border security improvements. “The funds will be ready to use in our efforts to construct miles of new fencing, miles of new vehicle barriers, utilize new cutting-edge technology at the border, build surveillance towers, institute an EEVS to ensure workers are legal, and other enforcement measures,” said Graham. “Congress has listened and heard the constructive criticism which has been offered,” said Graham. “The Graham-Kyl Amendment addresses legitimate concerns on the part of the American people that Congress would not fund our border security efforts. I believe we have now addressed those concerns and I expect Congress will pass this amendment when we return to immigration reform.” ####
06.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON-- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) along with Senators Max Baucus (D-Montana), Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa), and Charles Schumer (D-New York) today introduced major legislation to deal with foreign currency concerns threatening the U.S. economy. The Currency Exchange Rate Oversight Reform Act of 2007 establishes a new approach to examining world currencies, requiring new consultations with offending nations and imposing new consequences for inaction. When currencies are so undervalued that they become fundamentally misaligned with the U.S. dollar, they can put American manufacturers and wage-earners at a significant disadvantage in the global economy. The bill unveiled today is the result of the four Senators’ 2006 commitment to draft new, vigorous, and WTO-consistent legislation to address currency misalignments. " This is a wake-up call," said Graham. "No longer will the United States sit on the sidelines and allow other nations to gain an unfair advantage by manipulating their currency. Our legislation is a much-needed and long overdue change. There is no doubt that China and other nations have been manipulating their currency to give themselves an advantage. For too long the game has been rigged against American business. Working together we will change currency practices to put American business on a level playing field." "This bill requires the Treasury Department to take firm but fair action when other nations play games with the U.S. dollar. For too long, our currency policy has left American workers and businesses unprotected from foreign governments seeking an unfair financial advantage," said Baucus. "We’ve worked together to craft a measured but meaningful framework for dealing with currency concerns. This is a reasonable response to the problems caused when currencies are significantly out of sync. Treasury should welcome the opportunity this bill offers to give America a strong and even hand in currency matters." "The United States respects the rule of law. We expect our trading partners to do the same," said Grassley. "Unlike some other approaches to currency manipulation, this bill is WTO-compliant. It sets consequences for countries that want to access the U.S. market but don’t play fair. We’re not picking a fight with anyone. Today, the problem country is China. Tomorrow, it may be Country X. This enforcement structure could apply to any trading partner with out-of-whack currency. It gives a good chance for self-correction before penalties ramp up. It’s a velvet glove with a steel fist inside." "This breakthrough proposal is like nothing else because it’s tough, wide-reaching and WTO-compliant," said Schumer. "The previous legislation got China’s attention; the purpose of this legislation is to force change. Drafting legislation that was both tough and WTO-compliant was no easy task but we worked and worked for what appears to be the most elegant solution to the China conundrum so far." The Senators’ bill eliminates the current U.S. Treasury Department framework for addressing currency concerns, which requires Treasury to label countries "currency manipulators" before taking action and then only requires negotiation with the offending country. The potential political consequences of the "manipulator" label have kept Treasury from applying it as needed to protect U.S. economic concerns. The consensus proposal unveiled today instead requires the U.S. Treasury to identify "fundamentally misaligned" currencies to Congress twice a year, marking some currencies for "priority action" if the misalignment is clearly caused by a foreign government’s economic policies. Treasury will be required to consult with any country with fundamentally misaligned currency, but a designation for "priority action" has further immediate consequences. The Treasury Department will be required to oppose changes in International Monetary Fund (IMF) rules benefiting that nation, and currency concerns will be taken into account if countries with non-market economies wish to receive market status. If a designated country fails to take appropriate action within six months, additional steps must be taken. When the U.S. works to determine whether a country is unfairly dumping goods into the American market, it must be taken into account that the undervalued currency makes imported goods from the designated country artificially cheap. Further steps include suspension of U.S. government procurement, requests for special consultation by the IMF, and suspension of loans and private insurance from the Overseas Private Investment Corporation to U.S. companies wishing to operate in that nation. If issues are not resolved within one year, the legislation requires the U.S. Trade Representative to commence WTO dispute settlement proceedings regarding the currency problem, and requires the Treasury Secretary to consider possible remedial intervention by the Federal Reserve Board and other central banks. At the six-month and twelve-month marks, the President of the United States may waive the bill’s requirements if implementing them poses a threat to national security or America’s economic interests. But the bill also increases congressional input by giving Congress the ability to voice disapproval of the Presidential economic waiver, and by creating a new body – appointed by the President and the leaders of committees of jurisdiction – with which Treasury must consult during the development of its report. Baucus and Grassley are Chairman and Ranking Republican and Schumer is a member of the Senate Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over U.S. trade policy. The Senators’ bill is expected to be referred to the Finance Committee. #####
06.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate no-confidence vote on Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. “The time we spend on the Senate floor debating issues is a precious commodity. I cannot think of a bigger waste of time than the Democratic resolution expressing no-confidence in the Attorney General. “This resolution takes the country down a road we have never traveled before. If successful, it could start an endless journey of political sniping and sophomoric payback. The Congress is in low standing with the public for a reason. The Democratic leaderships decision to bring up matters such as this – an unprecedented political stunt – reinforces our low standing. For these reasons, I will vote against moving the resolution forward.” ####
06.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Charleston will receive more than $2.3 million in housing program grants. Community Development Block Grant - $1,094,273 The Community Development Block Grant program develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. HOME Investment Partnership - $826,621 The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS - $401,000 The Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS program provides housing assistance and related support services to state and local governments. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
06.11.2007	WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Department of Public Safety will receive a $5,497,757 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant. The funds can be used for crime control and prevention programs. South Carolina will use the grant money for: Law enforcement programs that target drug distribution networks, provide equipment upgrades, and prioritize domestic violence offenses and crimes against children and the aged. Prosecution and court programs that provide prosecutorial resources and concentrate on offenders accused of violent crimes and criminal domestic violence, and support services to relieve caseloads in mental health courts. Prevention and education programs to reduce crime and enhance security in schools. Planning, evaluation, and technology improvement programs that improve interoperable communications, interconnectivity, and enhancement to data systems that promote reporting crime data. Graham noted the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) will also receive a $351,913 grant to improve criminal history record systems. SLED will use the funds to develop and implement a uniform RAP sheet that is compliant with both the Global Justice XML Data Model and the National Information Exchange Model. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
06.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham and U.S. Representative Gresham Barrett today announced Clemson University will receive three scientific research grants totaling $1.3 million. Clemson will receive: $878,750 for a project entitled, "Biosystems Technology ATE Project.” $335,000 for a project entitled, "Shoots, Roots & Nodules: A Molecular Genetic Dissection of Local & Long Distance Signaling in M. Truncatula." $125,237 for a project entitled, "Computer-Aided Collaborative Reasoning across the Curriculum.” The grants were awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
06.11.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Furman University and Greenville Technical College will receive $1.1 million in scientific research grants. Furman Furman University will receive a $272,000 grant for a project entitled "RUI: Photochemistry and Photophysics of Macrocyclic Chromium(III) Complexes: An Investigation of Electronic Energy Self-Exchange." Greenville Tech Greenville Technical College will receive an $886,886 grant for a project entitled "Virtual Simulated Inspection (ViSIns) Laboratory: Using Interactive 3D Knowledge Objects to Promote Learning for Non-Destructive Inspection in Aviation Maintenance Technology.” The grants were awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
06.08.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the vote to bring debate to a close on the Senate immigration bill. The motion failed by a vote of 50-45. Sixty votes are needed to end debate. “The legislation secures our nation’s border, ensures workers are legal, provides for a temporary guest worker program, and punishes the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants in the United States in a fair manner. The legislation is far from perfect, but it is a realistic approach to dealing with the very serious immigration problems facing our nation. “The last vote in the Senate is a bump in the road to enacting comprehensive immigration reform. Once the legislative logjam is broken, I believe a majority of Republican and Democratic Senators will approve the legislation. There remains strong bipartisan support for the reform bill. “I’m optimistic the legislation will come back to the floor in a matter of weeks. We will have more votes on the issue. There is no good reason, given the wide support for this bill, that we cannot have a final passage vote before the July 4th break. “President Bush deserves great credit and praise for bringing us to this point in the debate. Without his leadership, we would not be on the verge of passing comprehensive immigration reform. With his continued leadership I know that we will cross the finish line in the coming weeks.” #####
06.07.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement last night on the Senate floor against the Obama amendment. The amendment would have undermined the merit-based system to handle future immigration. It was defeated by a vote of 42-55. Graham said: “Thank you Mr. President. I think it’s very appropriate that you be occupying the chair during this moment in this debate. My good friend from Illinois says that to those who have worked so hard to get this bill to the point that it’s at, nothing personal, 'But I can’t live with this provision.' “You know, bipartisanship is music to the American people’s ears. When you’re out there on the campaign trail, you’re trying to pull us all together, you’re trying to make American better. Why can’t we work together? “This is why we can’t work together. Because some people -- when it comes to the tough decisions -- back away. “Because when you talk about bipartisanship, some Americans on the left and the right consider it heresy. And we’re giving in if we pass this amendment. “The 12 million who have lived in fear for decades, my Republican colleagues and a majority have told our base we’re not going to put them in jail and we’re not going to deport them. No matter how much you scream, no matter how much you yell, we’re going to make them right with the law. “We’re going to punish them, but we’re not going to play like they don’t exist. And we are going to do thing different in the future. “If you care about family, under this bill people are united in eight years who would wait 30 years to get here. If you care about families wanting to wake up one morning and not be afraid, this bill does it. “This amendment, in the name of making the bill better, says bipartisanship doesn’t have the “bi” in it. It means that everybody over here who’s walked the plank and told our base you’re wrong, you’re going to destroy this deal. And that is exactly what it is, a deal. “A deal to make American more secure, to give people a chance to start their lives over again and to have a new system that has a strong pro-family component but will make us competitive with the world because some people don’t want to say to the loud folks – ‘No, you can’t have your way all the time.’ “Now let me tell you, this is about as bipartisan as you’ll get Mr. President. Some of us on the Republican side have been beat up and some of you on the Democratic side have been beat up because we’ve tried to find a way forward on a problem that nobody else wants to deal with. “To my friend, Senator Kennedy, thank you for trying to find a way, as much as we’re different, to make this country better, more secure, to treat the 12 million people in a way they’ve never been treated, and in my opinion, deserve to be treated, and a chance to start over. What a sweet idea it is to have a second chance in life. Well, they’re not going to get it if this [amendment] passes and American will be the worse for it. “What a great opportunity we have as a country not to repeat mistakes of 1986 by having a merit-based immigration system that has a strong family component but frees up some green cards so we can be competitive. “So when you’re out on the campaign trail my friend, tell them about why we can’t come together. This is why.” #####
06.07.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) voted in support of the Inhofe Amendment which declares English the national language of the United States . The amendment, introduced by Senator James Inhofe (R-Oklahoma) was accepted by a vote of 64-33 and is now part of the Senate immigration bill. “The Inhofe amendment, like many others which have been adopted by the Senate, is moving the immigration bill in the right direction,” said Graham. “English is the language that unites us as a people and I’m proud to vote for passage of this important amendment.” The Inhofe Amendment states that no person has a “right, entitlement or claim to have the Government of the United States or any of its officials or representatives act, communicate, perform or provide services, or provide materials in any language other than English….” It also makes clear that the U.S. government and federal agencies should “preserve and enhance the role of English as the national language of the United States of America ." The Heritage Foundation has called the amendment “both sensible and necessary.” English First said the amendment “is essential toward moving the Senate immigration bill toward the idea of assimilation.” #####
06.06.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham and U.S. Representative Joe Wilson today announced a $175 million housing project at Fort Jackson. The Residential Communities Initiative (RCI) project will construct 693 new three and four-bedroom townhouse/duplex and single-family homes; renovate 291 homes; and construct a new community center with basketball and volleyball courts, playground, open-air pavilion, walking trails, and parks. The RCI is a public/private joint venture between the U.S. Army and GMH/Centex Military Communities, LLC. “The men and women who serve our nation in uniform deserve access to quality housing,” said Graham. “This project will provide hundreds of new and renovated homes for the soldiers and the families stationed at Fort Jackson. It will also provide an economic boost to the local economy. I’m pleased the Army has decided to move forward on this important project.” "Providing improved living conditions for our soldiers and their families increases their morale and quality of life,” said Wilson. “The men and women sacrificing for our country deserve no less than the best. I am pleased our military families at Fort Jackson will soon have the opportunity to reside in top-notch housing facilities." According to estimates from the Army, approximately 65-70 percent of the total project cost will be spent locally for subcontractors, building material, and other goods. Of the total project cost, the Army is investing up to $43.9 million, with the remainder coming from the private sector partner. The project is expected to be completed in six years. The new housing will consist of townhouse/duplex and single-family units complete with one to three car garages. The new homes will feature regional architectural themes, modern interior layouts with abundant storage, and modern energy-saving appliances. ####
06.06.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham and U.S. Representatives Henry Brown and Joe Wilson today announced the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control will receive a $2,316,000 grant to help administer its coastal zone management (CZM) program. The funds will provide support for CZM planning, permitting, enforcement, outreach, and technical assistance. Additionally, funds may be used to support initiatives to create an ocean management plan and to build coastal community resilience to shoreline change. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA). This award marks the 30th year that NOAA has provided coastal management assistance to South Carolina. ####
06.01.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Three Key Points on Worksite Enforcement Provisions To crack down on the hiring of illegal workers, the immigration reform bill sets up an Electronic Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS) to help employers verify the status of the workers they hire. Employers will be required to verify the work eligibility of all employees using EEVS and all workers will be required to present stronger and more readily verifiable identification documents. The legislation imposes stiff new Criminal and Civil penalties on employers who hire illegal workers. EEVS will Help Employers follow the law and hold Employers who hire Illegal Workers Accountable Under the legislation, a reliable Employment Eligibility Verification System (EEVS) must be established and in use before any temporary worker or V-visas are issued. All employers will be required to use EEVS to verify their employee’s work eligibility. EEVS will be founded on unprecedented sharing of information across numerous electronic databases. These include: Social Security Administration records;State Department passport and visa records (including photographs); Birth and death records maintained by State Vital Statistics agencies; and State driver’s license information. For the first time, EEVS will allow employers to verify the authenticity of documents by providing access to identification photographs in government databases. EEVS Will Build Upon the Current Basic Pilot Model Under the Immigration Reform Bill ALL U.S. Employers will be required to use EEVS to verify their Employees' work eligibility. Under the current system, only a small percentage of U.S. employers participate in Basic Pilot, the voluntary program established to help employers determine the legal status of new hires. Under the bill, all U.S. employers will be required to check new hires using EEVS after an initial 18-month phase-in. Within three years, employers must use EEVS to verify the work eligibility of all employees not previously verified through the system. EEVS will require workers to present a limited range of secure Government-Issued or Government-Authorized IDs, which will be checked electronically against Federal and State Databases. EEVS allows for only a limited range of stronger and more readily verifiable identification documents including: U.S. Passport issued by the State Department. Document issued by DHS or the State Department containing photo, biometrics, other such personal identifying info needed to ensure identity (for non-citizens). State-issued, REAL ID Act-compliant license presented along with a Social Security card. For a limited period before implementation of the REAL ID Act, a State-issued license with a photograph that can be verified by DHS, presented along with a birth certificate and Social Security card. EEVS will allow Employers to access identification photographs in government databases to verify the authenticity of workers' documents. In addition to the checks against Social Security Administration (SSA) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) databases now performed under Basic Pilot, EEVS will link to the U.S. Department of State and Departments of Motor Vehicles in individuals States to confirm issuance of identity documents and provide employers with the digital photograph associated with these documents.
05.29.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has invited U.S. Secretary of Transportation Mary Peters to visit Grand Strand for a first-hand view of the region’s transportation needs. Graham says Secretary Peters tentatively accepted the invitation several weeks ago and is tentatively scheduled to visit this Friday, June 1. Details of her visit are still being finalized and will be announced in the next several days. "I am very pleased the Secretary of Transportation is scheduled to visit the Grand Strand," said Graham. "We have very pressing short and long-term transportation needs. This is an opportunity to show Secretary Peters’ first-hand our needs and encourage the department to be a partner in our effort to address them. I appreciate her willingness to come and hear our story." Graham noted that Secretary Peters has more than a 20 year career addressing transportation needs. She earned a reputation as an innovative problem solver, a force for safety, and an advocate for the effective use of taxpayer dollars. Peters served as Federal Highway Administrator in 2001 and served in the position until 2005. During her tenure there she placed special emphasis on finding new ways to invest in road and bridge construction. She also pursued innovative public-private partnerships that helped build roads faster and at less expense. "Tourism is one of the leading industries in our state," said Graham. "I-73 is an incredibly important road for the future of the Grand Strand and really, the entire state. Our local, state, and federal officials understand the importance of this future interstate. Now, we need to impress upon the Secretary of DOT our unified commitment to helping turn it into reality. I think her visit to the Grand Strand will certainly help in the effort." Graham concluded by noting that many elected officials and local organizations such as the Myrtle Beach Chamber of Commerce, the I-73 Association, and NESA deserve credit for continuing to help push for construction of I-73. "Pushing I-73 forward truly is a team effort," said Graham. #####
05.29.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Greenville News says 'Ignoring illegal immigration is not an option' "Those on the far left in our country demand no punishment for those who ignored our laws by entering the United States illegally. Furthermore, they want no restrictions -- such as a requirement that this nation of immigrants recognize the English language as our common bond -- and they are offended by the notion that our immigration policy should be shaped to meet the economic needs of our nation instead of the welfare needs of other countries. "Those on the far right refuse to acknowledge that while illegal immigrants broke our laws to get here, they did so with a wink and a nod from the federal government, major corporations and small businesses. And many of those illegal immigrants have contributed to our country by working hard and otherwise respecting our laws. Requiring all 12 million of these people -- or however many it really is -- to "just go back home" isn't an immigration reform plan, it's political posturing that doesn't advance this debate one single inch." The State 'Compromise bill offers best hope on immigration' ".....this is an issue that needs to be addressed. Our border is too open — to illegal immigrants who often fall prey to traffickers, to smuggled drugs and to intruders with criminal or even terrorist intentions. But that is only half of our problem. The nation has a shadow society already in place, with millions living here outside the bounds of the law. They build our businesses, drive our roads and seek help in our hospitals. Our economy encourages them to come and profits from their labor. The idea that those who wish to stay will be sent packing by the millions is ludicrous. We need a system that offers a route — not a shortcut, but an opportunity to be earned — to enter the legitimate world, where they pay all taxes and obey our laws." Anderson Independent-Mail 'Bipartisan plan: Graham stuck his neck out politically' "There's no fully pleasing either side when it comes to immigration issues. The sides don't even agree within their own ranks on all facets of any immigration offering. For some, it's all or nothing. Everybody gets in or nobody gets in. The problem is that is impossible to accomplish. ... We see the path to legal residency and eventual citizenship, with limits on the number of people who can enter the country, as the only way to even partially begin to address illegal immigration. It will reward taking the legal route. And any plan must include requirements for employers to be strict in hiring and assuring that their employees are in this country legally. To deport 12 million people will be not only unbelievably costly but will impact prices of everything from fruits and vegetables to chicken to services." Spartanburg Herald Journal 'Immigration Compromise' "The immigration compromise worked out by a bipartisan coalition in Congress has flaws, but if it is left intact, it may be the only real solution the nation has toward improving the illegal immigration problem. ...But the problem is so vast that there doesn't appear to be a better solution. The United States simply cannot round up 12 million illegal immigrants and deport them. It isn't feasible, and even if it were, it wouldn't be healthy for the economy. The nation is forced to come up with a solution to assimilate the millions of illegal immigrants already here. The process outlined in the compromise is reasonable."
05.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint along with U.S. Representatives Bob Inglis, Gresham Barrett, and Joe Wilson today announced the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) plans to open two new community-based clinics in Aiken and Spartanburg. The clinics were among 38 approved in 22 states by VA Secretary James Nicholson. "I’m very pleased with the decision by Secretary Nicholson and the VA to open two new clinics in South Carolina," said Graham. "Our state has a long and proud tradition of military service. We also have a large number of veterans who depend on the VA for their health care. The Bush Administration listened to the congressional delegation’s request for additional VA health care capacity and they responded. I appreciate their concern, understanding, and appreciation for the well-being of those who have served our nation." "Our nation’s veterans have sacrificed so much for our freedom and we must continue to honor them by ensuring they have the quality care they deserve. I'm pleased with the decision of the Department of Veterans Affairs to open these important clinics to serve South Carolina's veterans," said Senator DeMint. "The Spartanburg clinic will be a great service to the veterans in the Fourth District, and we appreciate the Veterans Administration responding to the need here," said Rep. Bob Inglis (R-SC). "As a fellow armed forces Veteran, I am aware and thankful of the great sacrifices our military men and women make ensuring the safety of our country and protecting the health of democracy," said Congressman Gresham Barrett. "Funding for these two clinics comes as good news to the Aiken and Spartanburg communities. Veterans in the area will now have access to facilities close to home that will give them the support services and quality of care they deserve and have earned." "This clinic will enhance the quality of life of South Carolina veterans, addressing their healthcare needs and expanding accessibility to available services. I am pleased the VA has chosen Aiken in the Second Congressional District as the site for this new facility," said Wilson. The new facilities, called community-based outpatient clinics, or CBOCs, will become operational in 2007 and 2008. Local VA officials will keep communities and their veterans informed of milestones in the creation of the new CBOCs. Aiken The Aiken CBOC is projected to open nine months after receipt of approval. Its parent VA Medical Center (VAMC) will be the Augusta VA Medical Center. Services will include comprehensive primary care, health promotion, maintenance, routine/urgent care procedures and education. Mental Health Services will include a wide range of outpatient mental health services to include medication management, substance abuse treatment/counseling, individual and group counseling, and assessment/evaluation and/or therapy. Routine specialty care consults will normally be referred to the parent facility or to the local community on a fee for service arrangement. Basic x-rays will be delivered to the parent station and invasive radiology or more complex diagnostic imaging procedures will be referred to the Parent VAMC. Emergent care will be obtained at the nearest hospital. Laboratory services will be provided by the parent station or a contract provider. Parent VAMC, through the CMOP, will provide all routine medications. It is anticipated that 4617existing patients and 469 new patients will be treated at the CBOC. Spartanburg The Spartanburg CBOC is projected to open six to nine months after receipt of approval. Its parent VAMC will be the Columbia VA Medical Center. Services will include comprehensive primary care, health promotion, maintenance, routine/urgent care procedures and education. TeleMentalHealth services will be instituted initially, utilizing the planned Mental Health staff at Spartanburg. Routine specialty care consults will normally be referred to the parent facility. Basic x-rays will be delivered to the parent station and invasive radiology or more complex diagnostic imaging procedures will be referred to the Columbia VAMC. Emergent care will be obtained at the nearest hospital. Laboratory services will be provided by the parent station. Columbia VAMC, through the CMOP, will provide all routine medications. It is anticipated that 3068 existing patients and 756 new patients will be treated at the CBOC. With 153 hospitals and more than 700 community-based clinics, VA operates the largest integrated health care system in the country. VA’s health care budget of more than $34 billion this year will provide health care to about 5.5 million people during nearly 800,000 hospitalizations and 60 million outpatient visits. ####
05.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the Iraq supplemental funding bill. The bill was passed by the Congress last night, and President Bush is expected to sign the bill into law today. Graham said: “Our nation cannot afford to lose the war in Iraq. “Like many Americans, I was embarrassed and disappointed it took Congress so long to provide our military with the funding they need. American troops expect and deserve our full support. “Last night, I voted in support of the supplemental funding request for our troops. After weeks of delay, we finally got a bill that provides funding without instituting deadlines and timelines undercutting the war effort. Timelines for withdrawal would have brought the political and economic reconciliation among Iraqis to a screeching halt. It would have been a death sentence for moderate Iraqis trying to bring stability to their country. As for our American troops, those who would have been left to serve while waiting for the withdrawal day, it would have been asking them to risk their lives without purpose. “Unfortunately, there are spending items in the bill unrelated to the military effort. Congress should not take legitimate needs like military spending and add unrelated items. “As part of the War on Terror, Iraq is a test of wills – our will to succeed versus our enemy’s will to drive us out. It’s in our national interest to stand by peaceful Iraqis and against the extremists who not only want to destroy Iraq, but our own way of life.” ####
05.24.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Greenville News Editorial Page Editor Beth Padgett "....on its face, the plan does what we on the editorial page -- and many people who desperately want this issued solved -- have demanded. It proposes ways to secure our borders, crack down on employers who hire illegals, make it tougher to hire illegals. And, yes, it proposes a common-sense way to give legal status to most of those here illegally." Orangeburg Times & Democrat Editorial 'Immigration Compromise is Realism' "And extreme is what both sides advocate. The reality of deporting 12 million Mexicans is about as realistic a solution as simply opening the borders. Call it an amnesty program or not, there must be some kind of provision for allowing those in the country illegally to move toward citizenship. As impractical as trying to find and deport them is, it also would be devastating to the American economy. ... Continuing to oppose all efforts at compromise on immigration only makes it longer before there is agreement on how to secure our borders to stop the wave of immigrants from Mexico. Border security is as essential to dealing with the immigration crisis as is an answer to what to do about the illegals in the country now." Conservative Columnist Bob Novak, 'Immigration Trap for GOP Candidates' "Why are the [Republican] party faithful throughout the country so incensed by immigration? When I asked [Lindsey] Graham, he quoted from a federal government report on the new arrivals to this country, "largely unskilled laborers" and heavily illiterate: "The new immigration has provoked a widespread feeling of apprehension as to its effect on the economic and social welfare of the country." The report, by the U.S. Immigration Commission, was dated 1911. When Graham returned to Washington Monday as the immigration debate began, he read the 96-year-old quote into the Senate record to demonstrate that fear of foreigners is not new for Americans. This nation of immigrants has greeted successive waves of newcomers with apprehension stoked by demagogues. It has overcome such past xenophobic impulses. But that will be more difficult in an era of Internet bloggers and radio talkers......" Wall Street Journal Editorial on 'Immigration and Welfare' "One place to start is a myth that has become a key talking point among restrictionists on the right -- to wit, that immigrants come to the U.S. for a life of ease on the public dole. Leading this charge is the Heritage Foundation's Robert Rector....Mr. Rector and Heritage have done some good social science research in the past, but this time they have the story backward: In most cases immigrants will pay at least as much in lifetime federal taxes as they receive in benefits. One basic flaw in the Heritage analysis is that, as a study by the Immigration Policy Center points out: "The vast majority of immigrants are not eligible to receive any of these [welfare] benefits for many years after their arrival in the United States. . . . Legal permanent residents cannot receive SSI [Supplemental Security Income], which is available only to U.S. citizens, and are not eligible for means-tested public benefits until 5 years after receiving their green cards." Conservative Columnist David Brooks of the New York Times "The United States is the Harvard of the world. Millions long to get in. Yet has this country set up an admissions system that encourages hard work, responsibility and competition? No. Under our current immigration system, most people get into the U.S. through criminality, nepotism or luck. The current system does almost nothing to encourage good behavior or maximize the nation's supply of human capital. Which is why the immigration deal reached in the Senate last week is, on balance, a good thing. It creates a new set of incentives for immigrants and potential immigrants. It encourages good behavior, in the manner of a demanding (though overly harsh) admissions officer. It rewards the bourgeois virtues that have always been at the heart of this nation's immigrant success, and goes some way to assure that the people who possess these virtues can become U.S. citizens."
05.23.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced an amendment to the Senate immigration bill which institutes mandatory minimum prison sentences for illegal immigrants who cross our nations' borders. The Department of Homeland Security estimates that between 20 and 30 percent of all of the illegal immigrants physically removed from the United States try to return. In 2004, 169,000 illegal immigrants were removed and nearly 65,000 returned. In 2006, there were 195,000 removals and 37,000 returns. "One of the biggest flaws in our current immigration system is that repeated, illegal border crossings are not considered criminal events," said Graham. "The Graham amendment requires mandatory jail time for those who continue to violate our border. This is a major, long overdue and much-needed change in our immigration policies." Illegal aliens deported from the United States who return will face stiff penalties. The first reentry offense is a mandatory minimum of 60 days to a maximum of 1 year in jail before again being deported. The second offense is a minimum of 60 days to a maximum of 2 years in jail before again being deported. For the third and subsequent offenses, the illegal alien would serve at least 2 years to a maximum of 10 years in prison before being deported again. "The amendment will allow our Border Patrol agents and courts to forcefully deal with illegal reentry," said Graham. "After 9-11, we must show the world we are serious and have the national will to impose prison sentences on those who illegally enter our country." Graham noted the amendment contains even stiffer penalties for illegal aliens who have committed serious crimes, served their time, been deported, and then reentered the United States. An illegal alien who has spent 5 years in prison or an illegal alien with 3 or more felonies would serve a minimum of 4 years to a maximum of 20 for illegal reentry. An illegal alien convicted of a violent crime such as murder, rape, or terrorism would serve a minimum of 5 years to a maximum of 20 years for illegal reentry. "There have been thousands of illegal immigrants prosecuted for serious crimes, served their time in jail, been deported and then illegally returned," said Graham. "We are serious about the violations of our immigration laws and this amendment helps makes clear protection of the border is the first order of business in immigration reform." #####
05.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $4.2 million in grants to eleven Upward Bound programs in South Carolina. Upward Bound serves high school students from low-income families; high school students from families in which neither parent holds a bachelors degree; and low-income, first-generation military veterans who are preparing to enter postsecondary education. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rates at which participants enroll in and graduate from college. The Upward Bound programs receiving federal grants are: Benedict College: $435,076 Claflin University: $578,918 College of Charleston: $420,564 Greenville Technical College: $250,000 Horry-Georgetown Technical College: $278,079 Midlands Technical College: $296,334 Piedmont Technical College: Two grants- $220,000 and $287,881 Technical College of the Lowcountry: $372,439 Tri-County Technical College: $387,591 Voorhees College: $329,856 Williamsburg Technical College: $372,170 The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
05.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 / Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Fred Barnes of the Weekly Standard "In 2006, with Republicans in control of the Senate, an immigration bill that was anathema to most Republicans passed the Senate by a filibuster-proof margin. Now, oddly enough, with Democrats in charge, the Senate is likely to approve an immigration bill -- call it Kyl-Kennedy -- that from a Republican perspective represents a major improvement over the earlier bill in almost every conceivable way." Fox News Channel Bill O'Reilly on the Compromise Legislation "The bottom line here is that if the bill doesn't pass, another ten million illegal aliens are going to come here in the next five years anyway. So the chaos we have now will double. The new immigration bill is unfair to those who've obeyed the rules. It is dangerous if not tightly controlled. And it is definitely amnesty. But if the bill does not pass, things will get even worse in America." New York Times Opposes the Immigration Compromise "It is the nation's duty to welcome immigrants, to treat them decently and give them the opportunity to assimilate. But if it does so according to the outlines of the deal being debated this week, the change will come at too high a price: The radical repudiation of generations of immigration policy, the weakening of families and the creation of a system of modern peonage within our borders." Michael Barone in National Review "In his negotiations with Kennedy, Kyl has secured many provisions that make this bill more stringent than the one that passed the Senate last May by a vote of 62 to 36. That's a significant accomplishment. Changing U.S. public policy is like steering a giant ship — it's impossible to sharply reverse course, but you can change the direction in a way that will make a significant difference over time." Conservative Talk Radio Show Host Michael Medved "Do we want to encourage illegals to try to rectify their status - to come out of the shadows, play by the rules, pay all taxes due, learn English, and assimilate into our society? Or do we only want them to disappear - nursing the delusional fantasy that some 12 million human beings will somehow uproot themselves (in many cases after years of US residency) and return to their impoverished homelands simply because we want them to do so? And speaking of rewarding good behavior, and punishing the bad: those courageous conservatives (Senators Kyl, Graham, Isakson and, yes, McCain) who have worked constructively and seriously on immigration reform deserve our support, not our rage, while those politicians and media figures who have demagogued this issue in a way that only makes it worse, in no way merit our encouragement." ####
05.21.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Sumter will receive nearly $1.3 million in housing program grants. Community Development Block Grant - $389,384 The Community Development Block Grant program develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. HOME Investment Partnership - $895,749 The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. American Dream Down Payment Initiative - $13,533 The American Dream Down Payment Initiative promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to lower-income and minority households. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
05.21.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina will receive more than $4.3 million in Infrastructure Protection Program grants. All of the awards in South Carolina were in the area of port security. Charleston The South Carolina State Ports Authority will receive $3,720,464; the City of Charleston will receive $456,000; and the Charleston County Sheriff’s Office will receive $75,000. Beaufort The Beaufort County Council Emergency Management Division will receive $55,785. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
05.21.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $15 million in federal grants for airports in South Carolina. Passenger airports serving Charleston, Columbia and Greenville-Spartanburg received nearly two-thirds of the total funding. “South Carolina’s airports are a vital part of our state’s transportation infrastructure and play an integral role in our economy,” said Graham. “These improvements will help recruit future investment and economic development.” Major Awards for South Carolina Include: Charleston International Airport / Charleston Air Force Base (CHS) The Charleston County Aviation Authority will receive a $2,203,397 grant for Charleston AFB/International Airport. The funds will be used to replace the flight information display system and baggage information display system; replace radio equipment; and to extend rain covered walkways to the public parking area. Columbia Metropolitan Airport (CAE) The Richland/Lexington Airport Commission will receive a $3,852,199 grant for Columbia Metropolitan Airport. The funds will be used to purchase and install a new regional jet bridge; purchase a pavement friction tester; rehabilitate taxiway lights; and rehabilitate runway surfaces. Greenville/Spartanburg International Airport (GSP) The Greenville-Spartanburg Airport Commission will receive a $3,915,615 grant for Greenville Spartanburg International Airport. The funds will be used for the rehabilitation of runway and taxiway lights including the installation of an airfield lighting computer system; reconstruction of aprons; renovation of the terminal restrooms; and the installation of public seating in the terminal. Other award recipients in South Carolina: Aiken The City of Aiken will receive a $150,000 grant to install perimeter fencing at Aiken Municipal Airport. Allendale Allendale County will receive a $150,000 grant to aid in the construction of a new terminal building at the Allendale County Airport. Anderson Anderson County will receive a $150,000 grant to purchase land within the runway protection zone at Anderson Regional Airport. Beaufort Beaufort County will receive a $773,222 grant for the Hilton Head Airport. The funds will be used for land acquisition, the design of a new airport rescue and firefighting vehicle building, updating the airport master plan, and obstruction removal. Beaufort County will receive a $160,550 grant to remove obstructions and update the master plan at the Beaufort County Airport. Chesterfield Cheraw will receive a $345,441 grant for taxiway construction at Cheraw Municipal/Lynch Bellinger Field. Pageland will receive a $300,000 grant to install perimeter fencing and acquire land for future development at the Pageland Airport. Dorchester Dorchester County will receive a $150,000 grant to install a runway vertical/visual guidance system and remove obstructions at the St. George Airport. Horry Horry County will receive a $150,000 grant to remove obstructions at the Grand Strand Airport. Jasper Jasper County will receive a $280,900 grant to rehabilitate the runway at the Ridgeland Airport. Laurens Laurens County will receive a $149,500 grant for the Laurens County Airport. The funds will be used to construct a fuel farm, design a hangar, and acquire approach easements. Newberry Newberry County will receive a $2,150,000 grant to begin site preparation and construction on a new runway at the Newberry County Airport. Spartanburg The City of Spartanburg will receive a $131,000 grant to design a new apron and taxiway to serve the new terminal building at the Spartanburg Downtown Memorial Airport. York The City of Rock Hill will receive a $150,000 grant for taxiway design and to acquire land at Rock Hill/York County/Bryant Field. All grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
05.21.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Fred Barnes of the Weekly Standard “In 2006, with Republicans in control of the Senate, an immigration bill that was anathema to most Republicans passed the Senate by a filibuster-proof margin. Now, oddly enough, with Democrats in charge, the Senate is likely to approve an immigration bill -- call it Kyl-Kennedy -- that from a Republican perspective represents a major improvement over the earlier bill in almost every conceivable way.” Fox News Channel Bill O’Reilly on the Compromise Legislation “The bottom line here is that if the bill doesn't pass, another ten million illegal aliens are going to come here in the next five years anyway. So the chaos we have now will double. The new immigration bill is unfair to those who've obeyed the rules. It is dangerous if not tightly controlled. And it is definitely amnesty. But if the bill does not pass, things will get even worse in America.” New York Times Opposes the Immigration Compromise “It is the nation’s duty to welcome immigrants, to treat them decently and give them the opportunity to assimilate. But if it does so according to the outlines of the deal being debated this week, the change will come at too high a price: The radical repudiation of generations of immigration policy, the weakening of families and the creation of a system of modern peonage within our borders.” Michael Barone in National Review “In his negotiations with Kennedy, Kyl has secured many provisions that make this bill more stringent than the one that passed the Senate last May by a vote of 62 to 36. That's a significant accomplishment. Changing U.S. public policy is like steering a giant ship — it's impossible to sharply reverse course, but you can change the direction in a way that will make a significant difference over time.” Conservative Talk Radio Show Host Michael Medved “Do we want to encourage illegals to try to rectify their status – to come out of the shadows, play by the rules, pay all taxes due, learn English, and assimilate into our society? Or do we only want them to disappear – nursing the delusional fantasy that some 12 million human beings will somehow uproot themselves (in many cases after years of US residency) and return to their impoverished homelands simply because we want them to do so? And speaking of rewarding good behavior, and punishing the bad: those courageous conservatives (Senators Kyl, Graham, Isakson and, yes, McCain) who have worked constructively and seriously on immigration reform deserve our support, not our rage, while those politicians and media figures who have demagogued this issue in a way that only makes it worse, in no way merit our encouragement.”
05.17.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made these statements on comprehensive immigration reform plan. General Thoughts: "Over the last few months, I have spoken with President Bush almost every week and met with him twice about immigration reform. Secretary Chertoff and Secretary Gutierrez have been there every step of the way. There would be no bill without their hard work. "Today we charted a new path for our nation's immigration policies. "We break the cycle of chain migration by placing a premium on the education and job skills of new immigrants coming to the United States. This new merit-based system is a major change in our nation's immigration policies and allows us to attract the best and brightest in the world. "We reclaim control of our nation's borders by adding new Border Patrol agents and technology to stop illegal border crossings. "We establish a new comprehensive employee verification system - for all workers including Americans -- to ensure people are in the country legally and eligible to work. "We establish a temporary guest worker system to meet our nation's future labor needs. Temporary workers can come here and work for a defined period of time, but they must return to their home country. "And we establish procedures to deal with the estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, allowing them to stay under our rules - not theirs. They will be placed on probation and pay fines, learn English, and assimilate into American society. If they want to become citizens -- a minimum 13 year process -- they will be forced to leave the United States and return to their country of origin. Only from there will they be allowed to apply for citizenship. Is the Legislation Amnesty? "Amnesty is a pardon and means all is forgiven. This legislation is not amnesty. President Bush made clear today he does not view it as amnesty and I agree with him. "I hope all Senators, particularly those who were not part of the negotiations, will become more informed about the details of the bill before making incorrect statements. "Here are the facts. Illegal aliens will have the opportunity to come forward and be fined, punished and placed on years of probation. Illegal aliens will not be allowed to jump in line for citizenship ahead of those currently waiting. If they want to become citizens they must pay fines, learn English, pass a civics exam, undergo background checks and leave the United States and return to their country of origin. The punishment is fair and just. "The public expects Members of Congress to speak their minds, but be informed in their opinions. I would ask for everyone to take time to understand how the bill works." #####
05.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Senate has authorized more than $40 million in public works projects in South Carolina. Graham secured the approval in the Water Resources Development Act of 2007. The legislation was approved by the Senate 91-4. “South Carolina’s natural beauty is one of our greatest resources,” said Graham. “These infrastructure projects will help protect and maintain the environment, while improving our quality of life. I am proud to help assist in these projects and know how they can benefit the local communities. I appreciate the leadership of my colleagues Congressmen Henry Brown and Gresham Barrett in the House of Representatives, and I look forward to continuing to work with them on these projects.” South Carolina projects in the bill include: Abbeville County/Lake Russell The legislation instructs the federal government to sell approximately 600 acres of land around Lake Russell to the state of South Carolina. The land will be combined with other state held lands and developed to include hotel, conference center, marina and housing. The development will create jobs and spur growth in an economically-depressed area. Charleston County $6 million for the Charleston Water System to replace approximately eight miles of deep sewer tunnel in peninsular Charleston and West Ashley. $3 million for the City of Charleston for stormwater control measures and storm sewer improvements at the Spring Street/Fishburne Street Drainage Basin. Georgetown County $16.44 million to Pawleys Island for a shore protection project that reduces hurricane and storm damage. $5.48 million will be used for initial costs and $10.6 million will be used for periodic renourishment over the fifty-year life of the project. Horry County $10 million for the City of Myrtle Beach and the Myrtle Beach Downtown Redevelopment Corporation to implement a regional stormwater management system. The project will create an underground collection system that will retain, clean, and then discharge stormwater via underground offshore outfalls. $3 million for North Myrtle Beach to implement stormwater management and water quality measures installing ocean outfall pipes. $3 million for Surfside to implement stormwater management and water quality measures by installing ocean outfall pipes. Jasper County The legislation instructs the Army Corps of Engineers to conduct a study to assess the feasibility of establishing a port and container facility in Jasper County. The legislation must now be approved by a joint House-Senate conference committee before it can be signed into law by President Bush. Graham will also continue to encourage the Senate to appropriate federal funding to these projects. ####
05.15.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint joined South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford in urging the U.S. Department of Agriculture to provide a Secretarial disaster declaration to cover agriculture losses suffered in the early April freeze. A Secretarial disaster declaration would allow eligible producers to qualify for low-interest emergency loans and other disaster assistance to help recover from these losses. “It is imperative that we afford relief to our farming community as they suffer the effects of devastating freezing temperatures in early April,” the Senators said in the letter to Secretary of Agriculture Mike Johanns. The freezing temperatures April 7 through April 10 severely damaged or destroyed the majority of the state’s fruit, row and nursery crops in the middle of the 2007 spring planting season. Farm Service Agency Damage Assessment Reports indicate that the freezing temperatures destroyed over 90 percent of the peach crop. ####
05.09.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) led U.S. Senators and members of the U.S. House of Representatives in accepting a petition – the Appeal for Courage -- signed by more than 2,800 U.S. service members urging Congress to support the mission in Iraq and end calls for retreat. A full 60 percent of the petition signers have previously served or are now serving in Iraq. “The men and women who are doing the fighting and dying -- the ultimate stakeholders -- want to send a different message than Congress is sending,” said Graham. “They want people to know they are committed to Victory in Iraq and they don’t want Congress to undercut them. They know victory is possible. I hear them and I wish others would too.” The Appeal for Courage petition was started in February by two U.S. service members serving in Iraq: Lieutenant Jason Nichols, a Navy Information Professional officer and Staff Sergeant David Thul, of the Minnesota National Guard. It states: “As an American currently serving my nation in uniform, I respectfully urge my political leaders in Congress to fully support our mission in Iraq and halt any calls for retreat. I also respectfully urge my political leaders to actively oppose media efforts which embolden my enemy while demoralizing American support at home. The War in Iraq is a necessary and just effort to bring freedom to the Middle East and protect America from further attack.” The petition was presented by Bob Wallace, Executive Director of the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), on behalf of the petitioner’s organizers. The elected officials at the event included Senators Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina), Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), Jon Kyl (R-Arizona), House Republican Leader John Boehner (R-Ohio), Congressman Eric Cantor (R-Virginia), and Congressman Adam Putnam (R-Florida). In a statement this morning LT Nichols and SSG Thul said: "This Appeal is a direct communication to Congress from the currently serving military troops. We are respectfully asking for full support in finishing the mission you assigned us here in Iraq. Patience and resolve will result in a stable democratic country in the Middle East. Early withdrawal will result in a stronger enemy, a weaker America, and a demoralized US Armed forces. Building a new democracy takes time, and we are making steady progress. We need your support to finish the job." #### NOTE: For more information please visit www.appealforcourage.org.
05.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the South Carolina Office of Victim Assistance will receive a $4,088,000 grant. The funds will be used to provide assistance to victims of crime. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice as part of the agency's merit-based or competitive allocation process. ####
05.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Chesterfield County Rural Water Company will receive a $1,369,500 grant and a $4,071,000 loan for water system infrastructure improvements. The funds will be used for the installation of 168,000 feet of waterline; the construction of a 500,000-gallon elevated water tank and booster pump station; a generator; and associated hydrants and controls. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as part of the agency's merit-based or competitive allocation process. ####
05.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced McCormick County will receive a $463,600 grant and a $627,000 loan to provide sewer service to the Plum Branch area and National Guard Training Facility. The funds will be used for the installation of two pump stations and 34,375 linear feet of force main. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as part of the agency's merit-based or competitive allocation process. The South Carolina National Guard is also contributing $500,000 to the total cost of the project. ####
05.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Barrineau Public Utilities Company in Lake City will receive a $545,200 grant and a $1,250,000 loan to provide water service to the Moore’s Crossroads, Terrell’s Crossroads, Springs’ Crossroads, and Horse Branch communities. The funds will be used for the installation of 53,930 feet of eight-inch waterline; 29,052 feet of six-inch waterline; and 9,978 feet of three-inch waterline. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as part of the agency's merit-based or competitive allocation process. ####
05.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Town of Ware Shoals will receive a $1,110,000 grant and a $1,553,000 loan for water system infrastructure improvements. The funds will be used for the construction of a 300,000-gallon elevated water tank and 2 pump stations; the installation of 4,300 feet of twelve-inch waterline and 2,900 feet of six-inch waterline; the purchase of equipment; and the installation of radio read meters and other appurtenances. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as part of the agency's merit-based or competitive allocation process. ####
05.01.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the presidential veto of the supplemental appropriation bill which establishes timelines and deadlines for U.S. efforts in Iraq. "President Bush is right to veto this legislation. It would have ensured our nation's defeat in a war we cannot afford to lose." #####
04.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the decision by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to allow the expansion of the Charleston port to move forward. Earlier today, the Corps issued permits for the port expansion and a new access road. Graham said: “From the mountains to the sea, the Port of Charleston is one of the key economic engines of our state. Today’s announcement is very good news. The creation of a new terminal will create more capacity and help ensure we remain competitive well into the 21st century. I’ve been honored to work with the congressional delegation and local leaders on this project. I’d like to thank the leadership of the Army Corps, state, federal and local agencies whose cooperative effort made this happen.” ####
04.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $26.8 million for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in South Carolina. Ryan White Title II South Carolina will receive a $25,646,912 grant for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in the state. The funds, awarded under the Ryan White Title II Formula Grants Program, can be used to provide a variety of services to low-income individuals and families living with HIV/AIDS. Ryan White Title III: Early Intervention Services Hope for the Pee Dee in Florence will receive $425,510; Sandhills Medical Foundation in Jefferson will receive $321,750; and, Spartanburg Regional Health Services in Spartanburg will receive $438,750. Title III funds can be used for: Risk-reduction counseling on prevention, antibody testing, medical evaluation, and clinical care; Antiretroviral therapies; protection against opportunistic infections; and ongoing medical, oral health, nutritional, psychological, and other services for HIV-infected clients; Case management to ensure access to services and continuity of care for HIV-infected clients; Attention to other health problems that occur frequently with HIV infection, including tuberculosis and substance abuse. All grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
04.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Alligator Rural Water and Sewer in McBee will receive a $1,391,200 grant and a $3,160,000 loan for infrastructure improvement. The funds will be used for the installation of 22,450 feet of water line and associated hydrants, controls, and appurtenances. The award will also be used for the purchase and installation of four emergency generators. Alligator previously received a $3,504,000 loan and $289,235 grant in fiscal year 2006. All grants and loans were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
04.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced $46,000 in competitive grants to fire departments in Cordova and North Myrtle Beach. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for the Fire Prevention Program. Fire departments may use these funds for public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspector certification, the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland fire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection. The grants awarded include: Cordova Cordova Fire Department will receive $28,975. North Myrtle Beach City of North Myrtle Beach will receive $17,300. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
04.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Richland County will receive two grants of $1,293,000 and $500,000, and a $2,033,000 loan to construct a water system to serve the Hopkins School Community. The project includes in the installation of water lines, construction of a 300,000 gallon elevated water storage tank, and the rehabilitation of two existing wells. The grants and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
04.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Senate Majority Leaders Harry Reid's recent statement that Iraq 'is lost.' Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. "If the war in Iraq is lost, then who won? Was it Al Qaeda? Iran? Sunni extremists? Shia extremists? "Do you believe allowing any of these groups to emerge victorious is in our long-term national interests? "I certainly do not believe allowing them to win is in our long-term interests. They all stand against the forces of moderation in Iraq and the entire Middle East. "As part of the War on Terror, Iraq is a test of wills - our will to succeed versus our enemy's will to drive us out. It's in our national interest to stand by peaceful Iraqis and against the extremists who not only want to destroy Iraq, but our own way of life." #####
04.20.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Majority Leader Reid's comment saying the Iraq war "is lost." A member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Graham recently returned from his sixth trip to Iraq. He said: "Majority Leader Reid's willingness to withdraw and declare defeat - in the face of horrific acts of terrorism - would be a mistake for the ages. "It would undercut General Petreaus's new strategy, not yet fully implemented, and ensure the defeat of this young democracy. It's would also be a death blow to forces of moderation throughout the Middle East. "We must not allow car and suicide bombers to dictate our foreign policy. An approach of appeasement and withdrawal in the face of terrorism reminds me not of Vietnam, but of the mid-1930s. Political leaders throughout the world kept giving Hitler one more country hoping he would be satisfied. He never was. "The failure to confront evil has always cost more in the long run than can be gained in the short term. Giving Iraq to the extremists and Al Qaeda will not end the war. It only guarantees that in time we will be fighting a larger war. "History will record the terrorists who are trying to destroy the democracy in Iraq should have been confronted sooner rather than later." #####
04.18.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on today's Supreme Court ruling upholding the partial birth abortion ban. "As a long-time opponent of partial birth abortion, I am very pleased with the Court's ruling. Today's decision was a hard-fought and long-overdue victory which reflects the will of the American people. "While Americans may be divided on abortion policy in the early stages of pregnancy, limiting abortion in the last months is overwhelmingly supported. "I'm very pleased we can now stop a procedure that an overwhelming majority of Americans find repugnant and unacceptable. That is an abortion in the last days and months of a pregnancy when the unborn child is clearly viable." "The Court's ruling is a step in the right direction when it comes to abortion policy in the United States. The partial birth abortion ban is now the law of the land and for that millions of Americans are thankful." #####
04.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $800,000 in competitive scientific research grants for Clemson University, Columbia College, Newberry College, and the University of South Carolina. Clemson University Clemson University will receive $339,065 for a project entitled "Collaborative Research: CEDAR--Experimental and Modeling Study of Mesoscale Ion-Neutral Coupling in the Auroral Thermosphere." Columbia College Columbia College will receive $149,968 for a project entitled "Using Discovery-Based Experiments to Integrate FT-NMR Spectroscopy into the Chemistry Curriculum." Newberry College Newberry College will receive $140,701 for a project entitled "Application and Integration of Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometer in the Undergraduate Chemistry Laboratory: Chemistry Major with Forensic Science Concentration." USC Research Foundation USC Research Foundation will receive $200,000 for a project entitled "Synthesis of Necklace-Shaped Boron and Boride Nanowires for Polymer Nanocomposite Applications." All of the grants were awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
04.12.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on his vote against the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act of 2007 which passed the Senate yesterday by a vote of 63-34. Graham voted in support of the alternative bill, the HOPE Act, which passed 70-28. He said: "I completely understand and appreciate the seriousness of the embryonic stem cell debate and how people of good will and motives may disagree on the proper course for our nation to chart. After careful consideration, I come out on the side of not using taxpayer dollars to condone the destruction of embryos, the early stage of all human life, for research purposes. "President Bush has threatened to veto the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act and I support a presidential veto. Destroying viable embryos is not a choice we should or have to make. "I hope Congress will pass and send to President Bush the HOPE Act introduced by Senators Norm Coleman (R-Minnesota) and Johnny Isakson (R-Georgia). It allows robust research without embracing the slippery moral slope that comes from destroying viable embryos. It passed the Senate overwhelmingly and if given the opportunity, the House of Representatives will do likewise. "The HOPE Act allows for research on stem cells, including pluripotent stem cells which have the flexibility of embryonic stem cells, without destroying viable human embryos. It is a better way for our nation to proceed on this sensitive subject." ####
04.03.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on yesterday's decision by the Supreme Court declining to hear appeals from detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. "I am pleased the Supreme Court rejected the terrorist's lawyers request to overrule Congress and grant habeas corpus rights to enemy combatants. "We are at war and the detainees being held at Guantanamo Bay pose military threats to our country. They are not and should not be treated as common criminals under domestic criminal law. The terrorists do not deserve the same rights as our citizens. "I firmly believe the Military Commissions Act, which applies the law of armed conflict to those held at Guantanamo Bay, will be upheld in its entirety by the Supreme Court when it is fully reviewed." #####
03.30.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Guantanamo Bay military commission which accepted a guilty plea from Australian David Hicks. Hicks is to be sentenced to seven years in prison for providing material support to Al Qaeda. Under the plea agreement Mr. Hicks will serve his sentence in Australia. Last year, Graham played a leading role in the drafting and eventual passage into law of the Military Commissions Act (MCA), which establishes the rules and procedures to try enemy combatant terror suspects before military tribunals at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. He said: "I'm extremely pleased the military commission process is up and working. I believe the sentence handed down by the military judge was appropriate. "I'm grateful to our Australian allies who showed tremendous patience in ensuring Mr. Hicks would be held accountable for his crimes. The Australian government should be congratulated for allowing the process to move forward and justice to be rendered. "I hope today's proceedings will be a deterrent to any person intrigued by the idea of associating with Al-Qaeda or other terrorist organizations in any shape, form, or fashion." #####
03.29.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after the Senate vote on legislation to withdraw American troops from Iraq. "This bill is a national disgrace. "The legislation sets withdrawal dates which tell our enemy exactly when we're leaving and how long they have to wait us out to win in Iraq. It also spends more than $20 billion on projects completely unrelated to the military and efforts to win the War on Terror. "Timelines for withdrawal are a death blow to our chances for success in Iraq. They freeze the political and economic reconciliation among Iraqis. They are a death sentence for Iraqi moderates trying to bring peace and stability to their country. As for our troops, those who are left to serve waiting for the withdrawal day to come will be risking their lives without purpose. It is an untenable position to put them in. "Is it really a national emergency critical to winning the War on Terror for the cities hosting the Republican National Convention and Democratic National Convention in 2008 to receive matching $50 million grants? Is there even a remote correlation between fighting the War on Terror and $24 million slated for sugar beet growers? What about $20 million for reimbursements of insect damage in Nevada or $13 million for ewe-lamb replacement and retention? "The President is right to veto this legislation and I look forward to sustaining his veto." #####
03.27.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate amendment offered by U.S. Senator Thad Cochran (R-Mississippi) to strip the arbitrary Iraq withdrawal deadline from the emergency war supplemental. Graham is a co-sponsor of the Cochran amendment. "A date certain for withdrawal dooms any chance of winning in Iraq. It is also a vote of no-confidence in General Petraeus, his new strategy, and our troops' ability to carry out the mission. Congress should not define how long our enemy has to hang on to win. "As for our troops, those who are left to serve waiting for the withdrawal day to come will be risking their lives without purpose. It is an untenable position to put them in. "Timelines for withdrawal are a death blow to our chances of success in Iraq. They freeze the political and economic reconciliation among Iraqis. They are a death sentence for Iraqi moderates trying to bring peace and stability to their country. If we leave, under these circumstances, Baghdad will be a blood bath. "Timelines for withdrawal are a political act for the political moment. I hope Congress strips them from the legislation." ####### UPDATE: The Cochran amendment was defeated in the Senate by a vote of 48-50.
03.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the city of York will receive $1.5 million to upgrade the Fishing Creek Wastewater Treatment Plant. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
03.26.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against the Democratic budget resolution. The measure which lays out a spending plan for the next five years passed 52-47. "The Democrat's budget throws fiscal discipline out the window and shows the country that Democrats live up to their tax and spend stereotype," said Graham. "It increases taxes on the American taxpayer by $700 billion and contains billions in new spending. It also completely ignores the impending crises in Social Security and Medicare." Senate Democrats twice defeated efforts by Graham to provide tax relief to the American people. Graham introduced an amendment today that would make permanent the current individual income tax rate structure. Current marginal tax rates are 35, 33, 28 and 25 percent; however, this rate structure will expire December 31, 2010. If allowed to expire, rates will increase to 39.6, 36, 31, and 28 percent. A recent study commissioned by the Small Business Administration found that a one percent increase in marginal tax rates cuts the life span of a small business by 32.5 percent for single filers and 44.8 percent for married filers. The amendment was defeated 52-46. Earlier this week, Graham introduced a measure that would have established the Death Tax exemption at $5 million and ensure the rate will be no more than thirty-five percent, extended the lower rates contained in 2001 Bush tax cuts on dividends and capital gains -- a change that would help more than 200,000 taxpayers in South Carolina -- and extended educational tax deductions including deductions for tuition and student loan interest and the $250 teacher classroom expense deduction. The amendment was defeated by a vote of 51-47. "One of my top priorities this year is for Congress to make the Bush tax cuts permanent," said Graham. "Tax relief has proven to be very beneficial to our nation's economic health. I'm disappointed Senate Democrats have chosen to protect special interests rather than protect the taxpayer and our economy. "We must keep taxes low to keep jobs at home," said Graham. "Although today was a missed opportunity, I hope Congress will soon extend the Bush tax cuts. To do otherwise would be devastating to our economy." Graham did succeed in passing a provision to help protect American manufacturing jobs from unfair trade practices. The Senate unanimously approved an amendment to provide budget authority for an additional $40 million to enforce trade agreements. The International Trade Commission, International Trade Administration, Customs and Border Protection, and the Office of the United States Trade Representative would each receive an additional $10 million. ####
03.23.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the House of Representatives passage of the supplemental wartime appropriations bill. The measure passed today establishes an arbitrary date for troop withdrawal from Iraq, includes tens of billions of dollars in non-war related earmarks intended to buy votes, and puts American troops in Iraq at risk by imposing restraints on the Commander-in-Chief and the commanders on the ground. Graham said: "The vote in the House of Representatives was a disgrace. "The House put more than $20 billion in spending -- completely unrelated to the war -- in the bill. Putting pet projects into an emergency spending bill funding our troops fighting a war is one of the low points of my time in Congress. The Democratic House also put conditions on how to operate in Iraq that will undermine our efforts to secure victory. They set deadlines for withdrawal that will empower our enemies. "In the Senate, I will do everything in my power to strike the provisions of this bill that undercut our troops' ability to win this war. Congress is not the Commander-in-Chief and should not micromanage the war. It's incredibly disappointing to see House Democrats put our troops at risk for short term political gain. The Democratic leadership in the House is like the cavalry in reverse. They're coming over the hill, but instead of helping, you know they are just going to make the problem worse. "The President is right to threaten a veto of this legislation. If this bill ever makes it to his desk, he won't have a shortage of pens available to sign a presidential veto. If necessary, I will be more than happy to bring one for him to use." ####
03.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Over the past two months, two wildlife habitat conservation projects in South Carolina have received more than $13 million in federal grant money. In January, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) announced $8.6 million for the Woodbury Wildlife Management Area and Hamilton Ridge Wildlife Management Area. Today, he announced these wildlife areas will receive another $5 million in federal grants. The funds will be used by the state to help purchase the tracts of land. Both protected areas will be placed in the SCDNR Wildlife Management Area program and will be open to the public for traditional outdoor recreational opportunities such as birding, nature walking, hunting, and fishing. “One of South Carolina’s greatest treasures is the natural beauty of our surroundings,” said Graham. “We have a responsibility to help ensure our state’s natural resources are preserved for the benefit of future generations. I’m very pleased to see a continued commitment to protecting both of these environmentally significant tracts of land.” The Forest Legacy Project grants include: $2.5 million to purchase the Woodbury Wildlife Management Area. The Woodbury tract, covering 25,668 acres, will protect 27.5 miles of river frontage along the Great Pee Dee River and 11.5 miles of frontage along the Little Pee Dee River in Marion County. Graham announced $4.45 million for this project earlier this year. $2.5 million to purchase the Hamilton Ridge Wildlife Management Area along the Savannah River in Hampton County. This tract of 13,281 acres is adjacent to 12,600 acres of South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (SCDNR)-owned Wildlife Management Areas known as Webb and Palachucola. Protection of Hamilton Ridge will double the protected acreage in this block and add another 8.5 miles to the existing 5 miles of state-protected frontage on the Savannah River. Graham announced $4.15 million for this project earlier this year. The grants announced today were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Forest Service. ####
03.21.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced an amendment along with Senator Jon Kyl (R-Arizona) to the Democratic Budget Resolution extending tax relief for the American taxpayer. The amendment was defeated in the Senate by a vote of 51-47. The Kyl-Graham amendment: * Established the Death Tax exemption at $5 million and ensures the rate will be no more than thirty-five percent. * Extended the lower rates contained in 2001 Bush tax cuts on dividends and capital gains. This change would help more than 200,000 taxpayers in South Carolina. * Extended educational tax deductions including deductions for tuition and student loan interest. * Permanently extended the $250 teacher classroom expense deduction. "I'm disappointed the Senate did not accept our amendment," said Graham. "One of my top priorities this year was for Congress to begin extending the Bush tax cuts. They have proven to be very beneficial to our nation's economic health." The Democratic Budget Resolution under debate in the Senate does not extend the Bush tax cuts while the Kyl-Graham amendment would have saved taxpayers $72.3 billion over the next five years. "There are going to be a lot of mysterious deaths on New Years Eve 2010 in order to enjoy the benefits of no Death Tax," quipped Graham. "People in South Carolina understand the Death Tax going from zero to a fifty-five percent overnight is a nasty blow. "There are no good reasons why small business owners and family farmers should have to buy their businesses back from the government," said Graham. "Unfortunately, if we allow the Death Tax to go back into effect at pre-2001 tax relief levels, it will devastate family farmers and small business owners once again." Under current law, the 2001 Bush tax cuts are set to expire on December 31, 2010. When they expire the marriage penalty, Death Tax, lower tax rates, lower tax rates on capital gains, and an assortment of other tax breaks will revert to the pre-2001 tax structure resulting in a $916 billion tax increase. "I hope Congress will extend the Bush tax cuts," said Graham. "The Bush tax cuts have been a central piece of the puzzle in creating a robust national economy," concluded Graham. "Allowing the tax cuts to expire will have a devastating impact on economic growth." #####
03.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Tara Andringa (Levin) (202)228-3685 WASHINGTON - Sens. Carl Levin, D-Mich., and Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., made the following statement today regarding their trip to Guantanamo Bay, Cuba on Saturday, March 10, 2007: We were present during the Combatant Status Review Tribunal of Khalid Sheikh Muhammad (KSM) at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. We viewed the proceeding on closed circuit TV in an adjoining room to where the hearing was held. We were able to view the entire procedure. The tribunal consisted of three military officers. The president of the tribunal was a judge advocate. The purpose of the proceeding was to determine if KSM is an enemy combatant under Department of Defense regulations. In addition to the tribunal members and KSM, a personal representative, who was not a lawyer, was present to administratively assist KSM. A recorder and an interpreter were also present. In the course of the proceeding, a lengthy statement was read by the personal representative on KSM's behalf detailing his leadership in planning the 9/11 terrorist attacks, personal involvement in executions, and many other terrorist activities. KSM was asked by the tribunal president if he understood his written statement and whether it was accurate. KSM replied in English that he did. In addition, the tribunal was presented with a written statement from KSM alleging mistreatment during his captivity prior to arriving at Guantanamo. This statement was made a part of the classified record of the proceeding. The panel said that the allegations will be submitted to appropriate authorities. Allegations of prisoner mistreatment must be taken seriously and properly investigated. To do otherwise would reflect poorly on our nation. The tribunal President made an inquiry as to whether the allegations of abuse affected the testimony given to the tribunal. KSM answered in English that his testimony was accurate, truthful, and voluntary. He also provided additional oral statements in English and it seemed clear that he has a good understanding of the English language. The interpreter was used only rarely. We were impressed with the professionalism and demeanor of the tribunal. KSM was given the opportunity to speak freely. He did so in a non-disruptive way and was respectful to the tribunal personnel. The true test of the CSRT process is not a case in which the detainee admits the allegations against him, it is a case in which the detainee disputes those allegations. Judicial review of the tribunals is ongoing. We will continue to review the process and will explore possible ways to improve this process through Congressional action. This case represents an important milestone in the War on Terror. It was apparent to us that KSM wanted to use the tribunal process to detail his role in 9/11 and many other terror plots and to record for history the part he has played in a war that he has unabashedly waged. It was apparent that KSM views himself as a warrior, motivated by religious teachings, and seeks his place in history. ###
03.15.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against the Democratic budget resolution in the Senate Budget Committee. The budget resolution establishes spending levels for Fiscal Year 2008 and lays out budget projections for future years. "One of my top priorities this year was for Congress to extend the Bush tax cuts," said Graham. "The tax cuts have proven to be very beneficial to our nation's economic health. Instead of extending the Bush tax cuts, the Democratic proposal actually allows them to lapse creating a $900 billion tax increase on the American taxpayer." The Democratic budget resolution passed through committee by a vote of 12-11. Graham said unless changes are made to the proposal he will be forced to vote against it against on the floor of the Senate. "The Democratic budget resolution leaves much to be desired," said Graham. "The budget process is never easy and I don't expect this year to be any different. However, we seem to be charting a path that leads to higher taxes, increased spending, and does not prepare us for the looming entitlement crisis. There is no doubt we can and must do better for America's taxpayers." #####
03.15.2007	MEGYN KENDALL, FOX HOST: If he is telling the truth, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed was planning a truly devastating series of attacks when he was arrested back in 2003. According to him, he was plotting to destroy the Empire State Building, the New York Stock Exchange and the Panama Canal. He also says he was trying to kill presidents Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter, as well as Pope John Paul II. But can these claims be believed? Republican Senator Lindsey Graham from South Carolina joins us now live from Capitol Hill. Hello, Senator. Thanks for being with us. LINDSEY GRAHAM: Good morning. KENDALL: OK. So here's the first question: Can these claims be believed? GRAHAM: I think we can believe the claim about 9/11. I can assure you that happened, and everybody in America knows it happened and the families know it happened. He listed a long list of terror enterprises that go back over a decade. Yes, I think we can believe that he considers us the enemy, that he considers anyone who disagrees with him religiously the enemy. I think we would be stupid not to believe that we're at war with these people. He is not a criminal; he's a warrior who's committed criminal acts. He should be treated as an enemy combatant, someone who's at war with the United States. And if we don't believe Al Qaida and their agenda, we do so at our own peril. It's time to wake up and realize that we are in a global war. They've been at war with us a lot longer than we've been at war with them, and we need to get with it and win this war. And he's in the right place -- a military prison. He should never be in a federal court or a federal civilian prison. He needs to be in a military court and a military prison. KENDALL: Senator, do you see this -- I mean, if you actually believe that he was planning on committing all of these atrocities, I mean, is this, is this -- what kind of a testament is this to the efforts of U.S. intelligence and anti-terror forces? GRAHAM: The only thing that one would question -- is he trying to embellish his role in Islamic jihadist history. I do believe that the details he's provided us will be corroborated. What it tells us -- that he has been at war with us and the Al Qaida network has been at war with us for a decade. And what did they say will happen next? They want to win in Iraq, drive us not just out of Iraq, but the Mideast; topple every moderate government in the Mideast. Set up a religious theocracy cruel in nature in Baghdad in the Iraq region and eventually destroy Israel. So this should be a wake-up call. We should understand that the intelligence agents who have captured this man, the military members who are detaining him, are doing us a great service; that we need the ability to interrogate in an effective manner people like Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. And they ought to be in a military prison, not a civilian prison. KENDALL: Right. And on that score -- I mean, obviously, these admissions were made in the context of him defending his label of being an enemy combatant, and now the next step is a trial. What now for him? What do you expect is going to happen to Khalid Sheikh Mohammed now? GRAHAM: I think that based on the record that there will be a solid case that he is an enemy combatant, not a common criminal, but somebody who's at war with the United States, who has planed attacks against the United States in a military fashion with a military objective, who operates out of uniform; that the definition of enemy combatant used at Guantanamo Bay fits him to a tee. And the next thing awaiting him would be a war crimes trial, because the activity that he has confessed to is illegal activity under the law of armed conflict. I've been a military lawyer for 20-something years. We're at war, and the body of law we should apply to these people is the law of armed conflict, not domestic criminal law. So I expect him to be tried. KENDALL: It's pretty amazing that somebody like that in the United States of America gets even those rights, right, Senator? Thanks so much for being with us this morning. GRAHAM: Thank you.
03.15.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement about votes on Iraq. The Senate voted on three separate resolutions. Reid Resolution: "I'm pleased the Senate rejected the ill-conceived resolution from Majority Leader Reid. If the resolution had passed, it would have been a colossal mistake. A majority of the Senate understood setting deadlines for withdrawal will embolden our enemy, weaken moderates in Iraq fighting for democracy, and undercut General Petraeus. Gregg and Murray Resolutions: "I was pleased the Senate overwhelmingly voted not to cut off funding for our troops in Iraq. This is a strong signal to our troops that we stand behind them and will ensure they have the support they need to fight and win this war." Conclusion: "I hope Congress will resist the temptation to micromanage the war. We should let our generals lead the fight and offer support to moderates in the region who are standing up to the extremists. "I'm very pleased we did not undercut our commander in the field at a time when there are early signs of progress in the new effort to stabilize Iraq." ####
03.14.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) yesterday voted against the 9/11 Commission bill because of Senate Democrats insistence on adding a provision allowing workers for the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to unionize. The unionization proposal was not included in the 9/11 Commission Report. The vote in the Senate was 60-38. The legislation will now go to conference with the House of Representatives. "This provision is the Democrats political payback for union support during the last election," said Graham. "It is an irresponsible position to take when it comes to our national security." Graham noted that after the United Kingdom air bombing plot was stopped, TSA changed the nature of employees' work and even the location of their work to respond to these emergencies. They also implemented new operating procedures within hours to deal with the new threat. "President Bush has threatened a presidential veto, a position which I strongly support," said Graham. "Flexibility is a key component in helping protect and secure Americans when they travel. The unionization proposal will not help make America safer." ######
03.07.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $450,000 in grants to fire departments in South Carolina. "Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians," said Graham. "These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available." "South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants," said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for Operations and Firefighter Safety Programs. Fire departments may use these funds for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Denmark Denmark Volunteer Fire Department will receive $37,354. Dillon Dillon County Fire Department will receive $74,590. Great Falls Great Falls Fire Department will receive $58,164. Greenville Duncan Chapel Fire District will receive $155,330. North Charleston City of North Charleston Fire Department will receive $72,696. Salem Keowee Fire Department will receive $20,235. Saluda Old Town Fire and Rescue will receive $36,813. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
03.06.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced nearly $975,000 in competitive scientific research grants for Clemson University and the University of South Carolina. Clemson Clemson University will receive $375,000 for a project entitled “Inverted Colloidal Crystal Membranes.” USC Research Foundation USC Research Foundation will receive $400,000 for a project entitled “CAREER: Quantifying the Importance of Friction in the Rheology and Structure of Dense Colloidal Dispersions,” and $199,431 for “Developing an Engineering Environment for Fostering Effective Critical Thinking Through Measurements.” All of the grants were awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
03.06.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today attended a Senate Armed Services Committee hearing on medical care provided to veterans at Walter Reed Army Medical Hospital. "The hearing shed light on what happened with Building 18 at Walter Reed and the state of DoD and VA health care," said Graham. "Repairs were made to the building in 2005 but the real problems were not fixed. There is no doubt the soldiers who served our nation and went to Walter Reed for treatment deserve better. "We are going to fix the problem at Walter Reed," said Graham. "We are also going to make it easier for people who have been injured in battle or have service-related injuries to get the medical treatment they have earned." Graham said he hopes this current episode will bring into focus the need for the federal government to increase defense spending to combat the rising challenges - both on the battlefield and in support services - necessary to fight and win the War on Terror. "We are in a state of war which could last a generation," said Graham. "The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have gone on longer than anticipated and the injuries sustained on the battlefield have been higher than expected. Our military health care system is running out of capacity. "Hopefully, this will convince the Congress we cannot successfully prosecute the war and care for our wounded soldiers spending just 3.8 percent of our GDP (Gross Domestic Product) on defense," said Graham. "The historical average is 5 percent. In World War II, we spent one-third of our GDP on the war effort. "We need more money, capacity, and bed space on the medical side," said Graham. "We need more troops, better benefits for our soldiers, and equipment on the war-fighting side. Commanders have to do a better job of being accountable and we in the Congress need to do a better job of ensuring the military has adequate resources to carry out all of its duties." Graham also noted that the recent episode is not an indictment of all health care provided to members of the military and veterans of our nation. "The care we are giving our soldiers on the battlefield is second to none," said Graham. "We are saving the lives of people who in previous wars would have died. Many of our health care professionals are doing a very good job during difficult times. We need to give them the resources they need to do their jobs and continue to reward those who are providing excellent health care to those in the military." #####
03.02.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $790,000 in grants to fire departments in Beaufort, Blacksburg, Daufuskie Island, Gaffney, Greenwood, Jenkinsville, and Union. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Beaufort Beaufort Fire Department will receive a $72,637 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Blacksburg Blacksburg Fire Department will receive a $105,963 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Daufuskie Island Daufuskie Island Fire District will receive a $42,180 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Gaffney Gaffney Fire Department will receive an $85,271 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Grassy Pond Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $66,415 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Greenwood Northwest Volunteer Fire and Rescue Department will receive a $62,114 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Jenkinsville Jenkinsville Monticello Horeb Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $213,864 Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Union Cross Keys Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $37,193 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Winnsboro Fairfield Community Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $106,146 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.27.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $1.2 million in competitive scientific research grants for Clemson University, Furman University, and the University of South Carolina. Clemson Clemson University will receive $199,961 for a project entitled “Multi-Institutional Mechatronics and Material Handling Educational Laboratories- Course Development and Student Collaboration.” Furman Furman University will receive $270,000 for a project entitled “REU Site: Research Experience for Undergraduates in the Grand Challenges of Chemistry. USC Research Foundation USC Research Foundation will receive $600,000 for a project entitled “PFI: Polymer Nanocomposites Manufacturing Partnership,” and $149,788 for “CCLI: Novel Instruction Material Development for Embedded System Education in the Undergraduate Computer Engineering Curriculum.” All of the grants were awarded by the National Science Foundation. ####
02.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $7.7 million in competitive grants for agencies throughout South Carolina to assist homeless individuals and families. Continuum of Care Homeless Awards The Continuum of Care Homeless (CoC) awards in South Carolina were awarded in two program areas: The Supportive Housing Program (SHP) helps develop housing and related supportive services for people moving from homelessness to independent living. The Shelter Plus Care Program (SPC) provides rental assistance that, when combined with social services, provides supportive housing for homeless people with disabilities and their families. Grantees must match the rental assistance with supportive services that are at least equal in value to the amount of HUD's rental assistance. South Carolina is divided into five CoC regions. Award recipients are listed by region. Several grantees received multiple awards. Charleston/Low Country CoC Crisis Ministries- $149,264 SHP Housing Authority of the City of Charleston-$84,994 SHP Columbia Midlands CoC Family Shelter, Inc.- $606,359 SHP Mental Illness Recovery Center, Inc. (MIRCI)- $247,380 SPC Mental Illness Recovery Center, Inc. (MIRCI)- $246,804 SPC Sistercare, Inc. $331,142- SHP The Salvation Army, A Georgia Corporation- $108,943 SHP Trinity Housing Corporation- $140,170 SHP Trinity Housing Corporation- $128,419 SHP Florence City & County/Pee Dee CoC Lighthouse Ministries- $60,294 SHPR Pee Dee Community Action Partnership- $179,098 SHP Pee Dee Community Action Partnership- $49,002 SHP Greenville/Anderson/Spartanburg Upstate CoC Greenville Area Interfaith Hospitality Network (GAIHN)- $21,775 SHP Homes of Hope, Inc.- $55,866 SHP MEG's House Shelter for Abused Women- $320,178 SHP MEG's House Shelter for Abused Women- $109,334 SHP MEG's House Shelter for Abused Women- $109,322 SHP Mental Health Association of Greenville County Housing Corporation- $121,716 SPC Project Care- $166,667 SHP Rosewood House of Recovery, Inc.- $178,488 SHP Rosewood House of Recovery, Inc.- $57,085 SHP Spartanburg County- $160,164 SHP Sunbelt Human Advancement Resources, Inc. (SHARE)- $545,315 SHP Sunbelt Human Advancement Resources, Inc. (SHARE)- $98,675 SHP Upstate Homeless Coalition of South Carolina- $99,936 SPC Upstate Homeless Coalition of SC- $184,305 SHP Upstate Homeless Coalition of SC- $17,348 SHP Upstate Homeless Coalition of SC- $642,151 SHP Myrtle Beach/Sumter City & County CoC Any Length Recovery, Inc.- $78,746 SHP Home Alliance, Inc.- $123,900 SHP Home Alliance, Inc.- $69,998 SHP Home Alliance, Inc.- $98,648 SHP Waccamaw Housing, Inc.- $186,816 SPC Wateree Community Actions, Incorporated- $121,150 SHP Williamsburg Enterprise Community Commission, Inc.- $127,188 SHP Emergency Shelter Grants In addition, three Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) were awarded in South Carolina. ESG funds are available for the rehabilitation or remodeling of a building used as a new shelter, operations and maintenance of the facility, essential supportive services, and homeless prevention. Grantees, except for state governments, must match ESG grant funds dollar for dollar with their own locally generated amounts. Grantees include: Charleston County- $89,708 Greenville County- $105,437 State of South Carolina- $1,491,489 All grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
02.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $485,000 in grants to fire departments in Edisto Beach, Lake City, Landrum, and Union. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Edisto Beach Edisto Beach Fire Department will receive a $35,625 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Lake City Lake City Fire Department will receive a $96,293 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Landrum Glassy Mountain Fire Department will receive a $117,135 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Union Philippi Department will receive a $237,500 Vehicle Acquisition Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.20.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the DC Circuit Court of Appeals decision in the al Odah case. The court ruled that it did not have jurisdiction to hear lawsuits filed by enemy combatants held at Guantanamo Bay. Last year, Graham played a leading role in the drafting and eventual passage into law of the Military Commissions Act (MCA). The bill contained a provision allowing federal judges to conduct limited reviews of specific procedural matters involving enemy combatant trials, and prohibited civil remedies such as habeas corpus petitions and other actions. Graham said: "I'm pleased the court understood Congress's intent to deny enemy combatant terror suspects the ability to bring lawsuits under the habeas statutes. "The determination of enemy combatant status belongs with the military. Civilian judges are not trained to determine who presents a threat to our nation. That is why Congress has only provided for a limited procedural review of combatant status determination. "Before the MCA was signed into law, enemy combatants were filing frivolous suits requesting better mail delivery, more exercise, judge-supervised interrogation, Internet access, the right to view DVDs and alleging medical malpractice. We made it clear in the MCA that terror suspects could not sue American troops for doing their job. These petitions undermine the ability of military officials at Guantanamo Bay to conduct effective interrogations. "Never in the history of warfare have enemy prisoners been able to bring lawsuits about their detention. Thousands of Germans and Japanese soldiers were captured and held by the military during World War II. Not one case was allowed in federal court where they were allowed to sue for their release. Our rules for the War on Terror should be no different. "Under the Military Commissions Act and the Detainee Treatment Act, the DC Court of Appeals will review the facts and circumstances surrounding enemy combatants' detention. Allowing enemy combatants to file additional lawsuits in civilian courts puts judges in charge of determining detainee status, not the military. "Today's decision was a step in the right direction. The DC Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the MCA, and I feel confident the Supreme Court will do the same" ####
02.17.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the Senate vote to continue debate on a resolution criticizing President Bush's decision to send more troops to Iraq. Sixty votes are required to end debate in the Senate. Graham was one of thirty-four Senators who voted to keep debate open. He also urged the Senate to allow a vote on an alternative resolution introduced by Senator Judd Gregg (R-New Hampshire) which states that cutting off funding will undermine our troops and the war effort. Graham said: "In a recent address to the troops, General Petraeus said, ' A decisive moment approaches. Shoulder-to-shoulder with our Iraqi comrades, we will conduct a pivotal campaign to improve security for the Iraqi people. The stakes could not be higher.' "It's clear General Petraeus understands and fully appreciates what is on the line in Iraq. The Congress should be reinforcing what he is saying to the troops, not undercutting him. "It was a sad and unusual Saturday session for the U.S. Senate. We were not engaging in real work, but political theater. Many Senators made it clear they feel Iraq is a lost cause and unwinnable situation. If they really believe that then they should vote to cut off funding. "The Iraq resolution is the first step in a policy of retreat which I believe will come back to haunt us for decades in the War on Terror. "The recent debates and actions of the Congress will only embolden our enemy and undermine our efforts to secure victory. General Petraeus and our troops in the field deserve better." #####
02.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $655,000 in grants to fire departments in Abbeville, Easley, Lancaster, Lyman, and Ridge Spring. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for Operations and Firefighter Safety Programs. Fire departments may use these funds for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Abbeville Abbeville County Fire Protection Service District will receive $284,705. Easley Dacusville Volunteer Fire Department will receive $47,448. Lancaster Gooch’s Crossroad Volunteer Fire Department will receive $55,860. Lyman Holly Springs Volunteer Fire District will receive $72,780. Ridge Spring Ridge Spring Volunteer Fire Department will receive $194,532. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the House passage today of a resolution criticizing President Bush's decision to send more troops to Iraq. The Senate is scheduled to take up the resolution this weekend. Graham said: "Contrary to what Democratic leaders may publicly say, they are laying the groundwork to cut off funding for our troops in Iraq. The Iraq resolution is the first step in a policy of retreat which I believe will come back to haunt us for decades in the War on Terror. "Our enemies have repeatedly said they view Iraq as the central battlefront in the War on Terror. So should we. The House of Representatives' actions will embolden our enemies and put our troops in additional jeopardy. "An overwhelming majority of Democrats in Congress appear to have given up on the idea of winning in Iraq. The resolution is a blunt admission they are willing to accept the status quo -- which is unacceptable -- and undermine chances of future success. "Because of today's vote, the Senate should immediately take up this matter. We need a full debate and recorded votes on differing ideas and resolutions. "Majority Leader Reid has and will continue to stifle debate and limit the Senate to a single option which is a precursor to retreat. Senator Reid knows an overwhelming majority of Senators will vote for the Gregg resolution which states that cutting off funding will undermine our troops and the war effort. It has broad, bipartisan support. "Several weeks ago Senator Reid made the statement that the GOP can run, but not hide from this debate. I'm standing firm in the light of day. I welcome this debate and believe the reason we are not voting on all of the Iraq resolutions is because of a fear of left-wing anti-war activists attacking the 2008 Democratic presidential hopefuls. It is a sad day when special interests take over the debate in the Senate. "The Senate is not the House of Representatives and I believe the Republican Senate will be united around insisting on multiple votes reflecting a wide range of opinions on Iraq." #####
02.15.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on plans by Majority Leader Harry Reid to schedule a vote on the Democratic Iraq resolution this weekend. Reid today said he plans for the Senate to stay in session through the weekend and maybe into next week to debate the resolution currently under debate in the House of Representatives. The Democratic resolution opposes General Petraeus's new strategy in Iraq. Earlier this month the Senate was scheduled to vote on a Democratic resolution opposing the troop surge but Democrats, unwilling to allow the Republicans to offer an alternative resolution, could not garner 60 votes to bring debate to a close. Graham said: "I will do everything in my power to ensure the House resolution dies an inglorious death in the Senate. "The resolution will be seen by our enemies around the world as a weakening of our resolve. It will embolden our enemy to defeat us in Iraq and drive us from the Middle East. It is also not remotely helpful to the war effort or our troops in the field. "These non-binding resolutions are political theatre at its worst. Our troops deserve and expect us to rise to the occasion. Instead, we have a case of congress acting in a small political fashion during a momentous time in our history. Our actions will play a decisive role in shaping our national security today and for decades to come. "Any effort by Majority Leader Reid to deny the Senate a full and fair debate and a series of votes on Iraq will be met by staunch resistance from many Republicans. There should be no more business in the U.S. Senate until we fully and fairly debate this new effort to secure victory in Iraq. The American people expect and deserve no less." #####
02.14.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he will fight efforts by leading Democrat Senators to give terror suspects expanded access to federal courts. Graham played a leading role last year in the drafting and eventual passage into law of the Military Commissions Act (MCA), which establishes the rules and procedures to try enemy combatant terror suspects before military tribunals at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Federal judges are allowed to conduct limited reviews of certain legal issues involving enemy combatants, but they would not be able to take over the military decision of determining who is and who is not an enemy combatant. "It's time we put terror suspects on trial before military tribunals for their crimes against the United States," said Graham. "If we begin tinkering with provisions of the MCA, it will slow efforts to bring terrorists to justice. "Some of the masterminds of the 9/11 attack on America are being held at Guantanamo Bay," said Graham. "I'm ready to see them stand trial and suffer the consequences of their actions against the United States. It's time for justice to be served, not delayed." Under legislation, Restoring the Constitution Act of 2007, introduced by Democrat Senators Chris Dodd (D-CT), Patrick Leahy (D-VT), Russ Feingold (D-WI) and Bob Menendez (D-NJ), enemy combatant terror suspects would have expanded rights to file habeas corpus petitions in federal court challenging their detention. It would also fundamentally weaken the rules governing military tribunals. "Never in the history of warfare have enemy prisoners been able to bring lawsuits about their detention," said Graham. "Thousands of Germans and Japanese soldiers were captured and held by the military during World War II. Not one case was allowed in federal court where they were allowed to sue for their release. Our rules for the War on Terror should be no different. "I will vigorously oppose any effort to allow federal judges to determine enemy combatant status," said Graham. "This decision belongs with the military. Judges are not trained to determine who presents a threat to our nation. That is why Congress has only provided for a limited procedural review of combatant status determination. "Before the MCA was signed into law, enemy combatants were filing frivolous suits requesting better mail delivery, more exercise, judge-supervised interrogation, Internet access, the right to view DVDs and alleging medical malpractice," said Graham. "We also made it clear in the MCA terror suspects could not sue American troops for doing their job. "The MCA protects our troops and national security while living up to our international commitments and obligations," concluded Graham. #####
02.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. - As a new record annual trade deficit was announced Tuesday, three U.S. Senators said they are introducing legislation to rescind Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) status granted to China in 2000. The three federal lawmakers are U.S. Senators Byron Dorgan (D-ND), Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH). In 2001, Congress granted China Permanent Normal Trade Relations status. Prior to enacting this law, China was subject to an annual review of their Most Favored Nation trade status. This allowed for the U.S. to ensure that China complied with its international commitments. The legislation introduced today would revoke China's Permanent Normal Trade Relations status and return to a system where the U.S. government would annually review whether or not to grant China Most Favored Nation status. The change would give the U.S. leverage in convincing China to trade fairly. "Since 2001, the first year China operated with PNTR status, our trade deficit with China ballooned from $83 billion a year to well over $232.5 billion in 2006," Senator Byron Dorgan said. "It's not difficult to see why. China has engaged in systematic labor abuses, intellectual property theft and piracy, currency manipulation and unfair barriers against U.S. exports. If PNTR status means a country is playing by the rules in international trade, it is absurd to continue to apply that status to China. Congress can - and must - send a clear message that China needs to stop cheating and start trading fairly. Rescinding its PNTR status sends that message." "The Chinese continue to manipulate their currency to give themselves an unfair advantage over American manufacturers," said Senator Lindsey Graham. "Revoking China's PNTR status is a necessary step given their reluctance to embrace the principles of free and fair trade. It's time to replace our current open-ended commitment to China with a system that provides an annual review and allows for decisions to be based on actual Chinese performance. Without the ability to annually review Chinese trade practices, it will continue to be difficult to persuade China to make the necessary changes to provide a level playing field for American manufacturers." "U.S. trade policy has failed workers and small businesses across our country," Senator Sherrod Brown said. "As far as I am concerned, there is nothing normal about allowing our trading partners to use slave labor to compete with our workers. There is nothing normal about manipulating currency to make exports cheaper. There is nothing normal about mouthing concern for intellectual property in the midst of rampant piracy. And if this is indeed normal, then I certainly don't want it to be permanent." ####
02.13.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the passing of Congressman Charlie Norwood. "Now is the time to celebrate a life well-lived and to keep his family in our prayers. "The State of Georgia today lost one of her favorite sons. "Charlie was a dear friend and I have never met anyone in politics with more passion about what they believe. He was a great representative for the people of the 10th District of Georgia. In his years of service, he made a difference in the Congress. His leadership, wisdom, and wit will be sorely missed." ####
02.07.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $225,000 in grants to fire departments in Anderson, Bennettsville, Newberry, and Orangeburg. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians ,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “ South Carolina 's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for Operations and Firefighter Safety Programs. Fire departments may use these funds for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Anderson Flatrock Bowen Fire Department will receive $18,620. Bennettsville Marlboro County Rescue Squad will receive $40,320. Newberry Newberry Fire Department will receive $70,348. Orangeburg Jamison Fire Department will receive $97,587. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.01.2007	WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) joined Senators John McCain (R-Arizona) and Joe Lieberman (I/D-Connecticut) in authoring a Senate resolution supporting General Petraeus’s new strategy for victory in Iraq and laying out benchmarks for Iraqi political leaders. The Senators will introduce the resolution in the coming days. Graham made the following statement: “These could be the most consequential nonbinding resolutions in the history of the Senate. I believe General Petraeus’s new strategy of sending more troops and economic aid, and improving the political climate in Iraq is our best chance for success. This resolution will send a clear message to General Petraeus and the men and women under his command charged with implementing this strategy that we believe in their mission and will give them the support they need. “A nonbinding resolution stating that the war is lost is the worst of all worlds. It is a vote of no confidence in General Petraeus, will empower our enemies, and be demoralizing to our own troops. If you don’t have the political courage to keep our troops at home, then cheer them on. If the United States Senate passes a resolution that is essentially a vote of no confidence in General Petraeus, we will wake up the next morning to headlines in the Middle East that say, ‘Congress Disapproves of War, Baghdad is Lost.’ “This new strategy is our best chance for victory. It makes up for past mistakes, allows breathing room for the Iraqis to begin political reconciliation, provides economic aid to counter high unemployment, and provides enough troops to clear, hold, and build. “If we lose in Iraq or withdraw our troops, we will be back in a bigger war down the road. The bloodbath will spill into the region, and Sunni and Shiite nations will feel compelled to get involved. A failed state in Iraq is a disaster for our long term national security interests. “We’re in a global struggle between extremists and moderates and we can not afford to lose. The United States and our allies are committed to bringing out the best in the Iraqi people; Al-Qaeda stokes fear and prejudice to bring out the worst. Sunnis, Shiites, and Kurds can live together in peace. We must help the Iraqi people seize the moment, so the forces of moderation will win over the forces of terror.” ####
02.01.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced nearly $600,000 in grants to fire departments in Chesterfield, Darlington, Dillon, Edgefield, Heath Springs, Landrum, North Myrtle Beach, Richburg, and Taylors . “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians ,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “ South Carolina 's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for Operations and Firefighter Safety Programs. Fire departments may use these funds for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Chesterfield Teal’s Mill Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive $10,260. Darlington Palmetto Rural Fire Department will receive $64,599. Dillon Floyd Dale Rescue and Fire Department will receive $55,908. Edgefield Westside Volunteer Fire Department will receive $34,200. Heath Springs Pleasant Hill Volunteer Fire Department will receive $39,900. Landrum Landrum Fire Department will receive $130,245. North Myrtle Beach City of North Myrtle Beach will receive $89,679. Richburg Richburg Fire Department will receive $32,490. Taylors Taylors Fire Department will receive $138,824. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
01.25.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $195,000 in grants to fire departments in Greenville and Rock Hill . “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians ,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “ South Carolina 's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for Operations and Firefighter Safety Programs. Fire departments may use these funds for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Greenville South Greenville Fire Department will receive $78,849. Rock Hill Rock Hill Fire Department will receive $116,313. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
01.24.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) continued his push for energy independence and innovation by reintroducing legislation in the U.S. Senate yesterday creating the H-Prize. The H-Prize is meant to help overcome the technical challenges related to using hydrogen as a widely available and abundant fuel source by offering cash incentives. Graham introduced similar legislation in the last Congress. “As a nation, we need to become less dependent on foreign oil,” said Graham. “Last night, President Bush called on the nation to reduce gasoline usage by twenty percent over the next ten years. I completely support his call for energy independence, and the H-Prize can help lead the move away from fossil fuels and toward alternative sources of energy such as hydrogen.” Graham serves as the co-chair of the Senate Hydrogen Caucus, along with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-North Dakota). Dorgan has signed on as the lead Democratic sponsor of the H-Prize legislation in the Senate. The bill was introduced in the House of Representative by Congressmen Bob Inglis (R-South Carolina) and Daniel Lipinski (D-Illinois). Graham noted South Carolina is a national leader in hydrogen research. The University of South Carolina is developing hydrogen fuel cells, Clemson is working on hydrogen vehicles, Aiken County has established a Hydrogen Research Center, and the Savannah River Site is a leading research facility in hydrogen storage and technology. These groups and others recently united behind the South Carolina Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Association which coordinates the state’s efforts to be a leading player in the emerging hydrogen economy. The H-Prize is modeled on the Ansari X Prize which spurred the first privately funded suborbital human spaceflight. Awards will be offered in the following categories: Technological Advancement: Four prizes of up to $1 million will be awarded every two years for outstanding achievements in the Production, Storage, Distribution, and Utilization of hydrogen. Prototypes: One prize of up to $4 million will be awarded every two years for working hydrogen vehicle prototypes that meets performance goals. Transformational Technology: Over the next ten years, a single $10 million prize funded by the federal government or private donations for breakthrough hydrogen technologies. The legislation directs the Secretary of Energy to contract with a private foundation or other non-profit entity to establish criteria for the prizes and administer the prize contest. “In 50 years, if we’re still reliant on Middle Eastern oil to drive our national economy, we will have done a great disservice to future generations. I appreciate Congressman Inglis’s leadership in the House, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance our nation’s energy independence. The H-Prize will help foster additional research and development in the long-overdue effort to make hydrogen a significant source of our nation’s energy supply.” #####
01.23.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) tonight made the following statement on the State of the Union Address delivered by President Bush. On Iraq and the War on Terror “I completely agree with President Bush that the outcome in Iraq is part of the overall War on Terror. We’re in a global struggle between extremists and moderates and we can not afford to lose. Success in Iraq with a functioning democratic government will empower moderates throughout the Mideast. Failure in Iraq will lead to regional chaos. “A failed state in Iraq would empower Iran, as they could install a puppet government in southern Iraq; it would create tension between Turkey and the Kurdish north; and sectarian violence in Baghdad, if unchecked, could result in a bloodbath where Sunni and Shiite nations feel compelled to get involved. “I believe General Petraeus’s new strategy of sending more troops and more economic aid, and improving the political climate in Iraq is our best chance for success, and I support his new effort. To my colleagues who believe Iraq is a lost cause, I urge you to have the courage of your convictions and vote to stop sending more troops into Iraq by cutting off funding. “A resolution declaring the new strategy a failure before it is implemented is the worst of all worlds. It is a vote of no confidence in General Petraeus, will empower our enemies, and be demoralizing to our own troops.” On Increasing the Size of the Army and Marine Corps “I enthusiastically support President Bush’s decision to grow the Army and Marine Corps. A larger military would provide us with additional combat capability in Iraq and Afghanistan and allow us to deal with other threats looming on the horizon. We need additional combat capability and in war, there is no substitute for boots on the ground.” On Energy Independence “I completely support President Bush’s call to reduce gasoline usage by twenty percent over the next ten years. The sooner we get away from Mideast oil, the better for our nation and the world. “I strongly support more nuclear power, hydrogen and ethanol for automobiles, and other alternative energy sources that will reduce our dependence on fossil fuels from the Middle East. The President’s energy independence plan should be embraced in a bipartisan fashion. “South Carolina is leading the way in terms of nuclear power production and the development of alternative fuel sources like hydrogen, and we stand to be a big winner as the President’s plan is implemented.” ####
01.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced his support for a line-item veto. The line-item veto amendment introduced by Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH) is expected to be voted on this week. Graham is a cosponsor of the legislation. The amendment would allow the President to submit a list of spending items he wants to remove from a bill Congress has passed. Congress would then vote on rescinding these items. “The line-item veto is an important tool for a President to have in eliminating wasteful spending items from the federal budget,” said Graham. “There’s no doubt we need to bring more accountability and transparency to the way we spend taxpayer dollars. The line-item veto is another option to help us achieve those objectives. The Senate should pass this amendment.” #####
01.22.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the Warner-Collins-Nelson Iraq resolution. “Unfortunately this new Iraq resolution, no matter how well-intentioned, has the same effect as the Biden resolution. It declares General Petraeus’s new strategy a failure before it has a chance to be implemented. “Any resolution that could be construed by American forces that Congress has lost faith in their ability to be successful in Iraq should be rejected because it rings of defeatism at a time when we should be focused on Victory. “Success or failure in Iraq will spread throughout the region creating momentum for moderation or extremism. Petraeus’s new strategy is our best hope for success, acknowledges past mistakes, sets benchmarks for Iraqi leaders, and provides needed reinforcements in all areas: militarily, politically, and economically. “I urge my colleagues not to try to micromanage the war, but instead listen to General Petraeus and fully resource his proposal. We must stand behind him and the brave men and women who will execute this new strategy, as the successful outcome in Iraq is essential to winning the War on Terror.” ####
01.17.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced nearly $250,000 in grants to fire departments in Aiken and Monetta. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians ,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “ South Carolina 's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Aiken Center Community Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $199,500 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Monetta Monetta Community Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $50,070 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
01.16.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has been named the South Carolina Citizens for Life 2006 Legislator of the Year. Graham earned the designation for, “personal efforts and attention to the passage of the South Carolina Unborn Victims of Violence Act signed into law on June 2, 2006, by Governor Mark Sanford.” During the debate in the South Carolina General Assembly, Graham made calls and urged both Republican and Democratic leaders to put aside their differences and pass Unborn Victims legislation on the state level. South Carolina Citizens for Life also praised Graham for his work in Washington as the original author of the Unborn Victims of Violence Act (UVVA). The legislation recognizes the mother and unborn child as victims when they are injured or killed during the commission of a federal crime. After years of congressional wrangling and many distortions made by opponents of the legislation, the UVVA passed Congress and President Bush signed it into law on April 6, 2004. The National Right to Life Committee called the new federal law, “a landmark right-to-life victory.” The Legislator of the Year designation was bestowed on Graham at the 34th Annual Stand up for Life March and Rally in Columbia on Saturday, January 13, 2007. #####
01.14.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 The battle for the future of Iraq is not about the political moment. It’s about the next decade and the decades to follow. It’s about securing a peaceful future for our nation. We have a lot on the line and it’s important we do everything possible to achieve Victory in Iraq. It is clear to everyone from President Bush on down that our old strategy has not led to a secure Iraq. Ever since al-Qaeda bombed the Golden Mosque, a Shiite holy site, the level of sectarian violence has escalated. The new plan introduced this week is controversial and has many critics and skeptics. I hope they will listen to the man who will carry out the new mission, General David Petraeus, when he testifies before Congress. He is an impressive leader and I’ve spoken with him about the path forward. He has confidence we can be successful. Unfortunately, some leaders such as Senator Majority Leader Harry Reid and Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi have already suggested we take a completely different tack and begin withdrawing troops from Iraq. My question to them and others who support withdrawal and redeployment of American forces is, ‘What happens if we leave Iraq?’ A United States withdrawal or redeployment from the battle would leave Iraq in shambles. In all probability it would trigger a full-blown civil war encompassing the large parts of Iraq that are currently stable. It could lead to a wider regional conflict involving neighboring nations including Iran, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, and Turkey and create a new safe haven for terrorist groups capable of striking the United States and our allies. We would face massive humanitarian disasters stemming from widespread revenge killings to ethnic cleansings. The extremists in the region, who already view the United States as a paper tiger would be emboldened. Withdrawing or redeploying from Iraq is not a sound, long-term policy for the national security of the United States. It is a recipe for defeat. We must change strategy or we are going to lose Iraq. We have made many mistakes and from the start we never had enough troops on the ground. We’ve paid dearly for allowing the security situation to steadily decrease and making political reconciliation by the Iraqis more difficult. For some time I have been calling for additional American troops, even though I know it could result in more casualties and sacrifice, to help in efforts to establish a democracy. While we have won every engagement against the insurgents our Clear, Hold, and Build strategy has not worked because we could not ‘Hold’ areas after they were ‘Cleared.’ Once we left, areas fell back into the insurgent’s control and violence escalated. You cannot establish democracy where you have militias stronger than the central government. You cannot have security when citizens don’t have faith in their central government to protect them. The five new brigades assigned to Baghdad will double our combat capability. They will assist the Iraqi forces in bringing about security and give the political leadership a reasonable chance to bring about stable government. One of the key political efforts is to reach agreement regarding the fair distribution of the oil revenues among the Sunni, Shia, and Kurds. A sharing of the wealth would give disenchanted Iraqis something to fight for, not against. President Bush has made it abundantly clear both the American and the Iraqi people are running out of patience. No amount of troops will change the future outcome unless Iraqi political leaders are willing to reach political accommodation. After five trips to Iraq, I believe many Iraqis are tired of the violence and seek a better way. Many have given their lives because of their willingness to serve their fellow citizens. Others remain afraid to come out of the shadows because chaos reigns. Over the coming weeks, Democrats and Republicans should be united around the fact that what happens in Iraq is directly tied to the future security of our nation. Do we want an Iraq at peace with its neighbors and an ally in the War on Terror? Or do we want an Iraq that is a safe haven for groups hostile to the United States, wracked by internal conflict and bloodshed, and a source of constant friction among neighboring nations? A final note, one of the highest reenlistment rates in the military is among those who have served in Iraq. I hope Congress and the American people will take this into consideration and ask themselves why their fellow American citizens – in the line of fire and in harms way – are so committed to this fight? They know history will not judge us on when we leave Iraq, but by what we leave behind. #####
01.10.2007	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement tonight on President Bush’s address to the nation outlining his comprehensive new strategy for moving forward in Iraq. “We cannot afford to lose the war in Iraq. “President Bush makes a very persuasive case for strategy change. I appreciate his willingness to acknowledge past mistakes and chart a new course to achieve victory in Iraq. “We do not currently have combat capability to ‘Clear, Hold, and Build’ in parts of the country. And it’s clear we never had enough troops to bring about security after the fall of Baghdad. The supplemental combat capability proposed by President Bush will help Iraqis control their streets and rid them of insurgents. It is a much needed change. “We must get a handle on the security situation in Iraq. You cannot establish a democracy when you have militias stronger than the central government. You cannot establish security when the citizens don’t have faith in their central government to protect them from violence. “I am also pleased the President outlined positive steps to address rampant unemployment, set benchmarks for the Iraqi leadership, and involve friendly neighboring states in achieving a positive outcome. Iraqi political leaders understand this is their last chance to make adjustments to secure their country. I believe they will. “Unfortunately, some in Congress want to cut off funding or cap troop levels so we cannot send additional troops to Iraq. We must not compound past mistakes by withdrawing or redeploying American forces from Iraq. To do so would send a heart-breaking signal to the moderates in the region and those in Iraq fighting for their freedom. “Taking drastic steps like those suggested by some of my Democratic colleagues--Congress basically declaring the war as lost--would be a disaster for our national security interests and are a recipe for defeat. These policies must not be adopted.” ####
01.09.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced two wildlife habitat conservation projects in South Carolina will receive $8.6 million in federal grant money. The funds will help enable the state to purchase two environmentally significant tracts of land. "One of South Carolina ’s greatest treasures is the natural beauty of our surroundings,” said Graham. “We have a responsibility to help ensure our state’s natural resources are preserved for the benefit of future generations. These are two very important conservation projects. I’m very pleased we were able to secure federal funding to protect both of these environmentally significant tracts of land.” The federal funds will be redirected from already completed land acquisition projects. . The projects include: $4.45 million to purchase the Woodbury Wildlife Management Area. The Woodbury tract, covering 25,668 acres, will protect 27.5 miles of river frontage along the Great Pee Dee River and 11.5 miles of frontage along the Little Pee Dee River in Marion County . $4.15 million to purchase the Hamilton Ridge Wildlife Management Area along the Savannah River in Hampton County . This tract of 13,281 acres is adjacent to 12,600 acres of South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (SCDNR)-owned Wildlife Management Areas known as Webb and Palachucola. Protection of Hamilton Ridge will double the protected acreage in this block and add another 8.5 miles to the existing 5 miles of state-protected frontage on the Savannah River . Both protected areas will be placed in the SCDNR Wildlife Management Area program and will be open to the public for traditional outdoor recreational opportunities such as birding, nature walking, hunting, and fishing. Graham credited his Senate and House colleagues for their work on this project. “This was a team effort,” said Graham. “It would not have happened without support from Jim DeMint, Henry Brown, Joe Wilson, and the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources. I truly appreciate their efforts.” Graham noted that Governor Sanford hopes to add $20 million to a state fund to buy and preserve forest, wetlands and other wilderness areas in South Carolina . “Conserving natural resources unifies South Carolinians from the coast to the mountains,” said Graham. “We must be wise about preserving the natural beauty of our state for future generations. Today, we have taken another big step forward.” ####
01.08.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Joe Lieberman (D-Connecticut) sent the following letter to President Bush today. Graham-Lieberman Letter to President Bush
01.05.2007	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Mike McConnell to be the Director of National Intelligence. “Admiral McConnell has an outstanding resume. He comes highly recommended from a variety of sources for his national security and intelligence experience. I look forward to meeting him and hope he will be well-received by the Senate. “All South Carolinians are very proud a Greenville native has achieved so much and is seen by President Bush as capable of handing one of the most important jobs in government. “In the fight against terrorism, the Director of National Intelligence is of critical importance. The DNI is our first line of defense in disrupting terrorist plots against our nation. Since 9/11 our intelligence gathering capabilities have improved, but there remains more to be done. We have to be perfect in stopping terrorist attacks one hundred percent of the time. They only have to be right once.” #####
12.30.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on on the execution of Saddam Hussein. "This act of justice being rendered came as the result of great sacrifice by coalition forces and great resolve by the Iraqi people who were victimized for decades by Saddam's tyranny. Dictators like Saddam Hussein thrive when good people with the capacity to act fail to do so. In this case, a brutal dictator met his fate because good people, both inside and outside of Iraq, acted to bring his tyranny to an end. "The task of replacing tyranny with a functioning democracy is exceedingly difficult, but worth the effort. I hope people yearning to be free from tyranny will take this event as a sign of hope. And those who maintain power through tyranny understand the world is changing and they could be next. "After five visits to Iraq and having observed last year's election, I'm convinced the extremists and radicals creating chaos in Iraq can and will be defeated. The vast majority of Iraqis want to reconcile their country and live in freedom. The moderate forces within Iraq continue to need American assistance in greater levels than are currently being provided. Additional American combat capacity will empower moderates in Iraq and be a blow to the radical and extremist forces. Now is the time to reinforce Iraq so moderate political leaders will have the ability to suppress radical and extremist forces representing a minority of the country." #####
12.29.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the passing of James Brown. "James Brown’s music was the voice of a generation and his impact on American music is immeasurable. I will always remember him performing at a luncheon announcing Strom Thurmond and Bob Dole's endorsement of my Senate campaign. To have shared the stage with two political giants and the Godfather of Soul is a memory that will last a lifetime." ####
12.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Cooley Springs Fire Department in Chesnee will receive a $142,000 Staffing for Adequate Fire and Emergency Response (SAFER) Program grant. The SAFER Program assists in the hiring of full time firefighters and supports the recruitment and retention of volunteer fire fighters. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to recruit and retain dedicated professionals.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families every day. I'm pleased they have been awarded these competitive grants that will assist in hiring more firefighters,” said Senator DeMint. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
12.27.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on the death of former President Gerald R. Ford. “It is gratifying to see an increased appreciation of the presidency of Gerald R. Ford. He inherited a battered institution and within two-and-a-half years was able to pass on to his successor a restored presidency. “America has always been blessed with having the right people come along at the right time in history. In 1974 America desperately needed a decent and honorable leader who could heal a wounded nation. That is exactly what we had in Gerald Ford. “It's now hard to imagine the turmoil that existed in those difficult days. I believe history will continue to elevate the Ford Presidency and more Americans will appreciate the valuable service rendered by one of the most decent, kind men to ever occupy the Office of President of the United States. “Without any doubt, Gerald Ford made decisions as President that put country above self. It should be an inspiration to all serving in public office today.” #####
12.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on President Bush’s decision to support a larger all-volunteer Army and Marine Corps. Graham has been a long-time advocate of increasing the size of the military. “I enthusiastically support President Bush’s decision to grow the Army and Marine Corps. A larger military would provide us with additional combat capability in Iraq and Afghanistan and allow us to deal with other threats looming on the horizon. We need additional combat capability and in war, there is no substitute for boots on the ground. “The rotation schedule for our soldiers is strenuous and a larger military will take pressure off them. Because of over-utilization we are on the verge of wearing out one of the greatest military machines ever created. As ranking member on the Personnel Subcommittee of Armed Services, I will push hard to dramatically increase the Army and Marine Corps footprint. This is a much-needed change in American military policy.” ####
12.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Chuck Schumer (D-New York) today made the following statement on the Treasury Department currency report stating China does not manipulate its currency. They said: “The Administration continues to use technical and legalistic dodges to avoid saying what everyone knows to be true -- the Chinese manipulate their currency. It’s as plain as the nose on your face. “After five years of work on this issue, we are not satisfied. If the Administration still won’t call China a manipulator, how can we ever expect them to get China to play fair?" “The Chinese cannot be part of the international community on their terms alone. They need to be pressed to play by the rules and that means putting an end to currency manipulation.” ####
12.16.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $230,000 in grants to fire departments in Hardeeville and Santee. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Hardeeville Hardeeville Fire and Rescue will receive a $43,406 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Santee Providence Fire Department will receive a $187,340 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
12.14.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will join the Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee in the next Congress. The committee oversees the U.S. Department of Agriculture and represents the interests of America's farmers. It also has jurisdiction over the nation's food and nutrition programs, assists with rural development, and helps regulate our natural resources. In addition to joining the Ag Committee, Graham will retain his current assignments on the Armed Service, Budget, Judiciary, and Veterans' Affairs committees. "I am excited about the opportunity to serve on the Senate Agriculture Committee and represent the interests and needs of South Carolina's farmers," said Graham. Graham noted the Agriculture Committee has a great impact on South Carolina. Beyond farming, the committee also oversees the USDA Rural Development program which provides grants to promote economic development and helps to ensure our state's children receive proper nutrition in schools. In addition, the Agriculture Committee is scheduled to reauthorize the farm bill in the next Congress as many provisions in the 2002 farm bill will expire in 2007. The committee is expected to craft legislation reauthorizing federal farm support, food assistance, agricultural trade, marketing, and rural development policies. Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia), the ranking Republican on the committee made the following statement about Graham. "I'm very pleased my colleague and good friend Senator Graham will be serving on the Senate Agriculture Committee," said Chambliss. "Lindsey is one of the true leaders in the Senate. He's respected by his Republican and Democratic colleagues for his common-sense approach to solving our nation's problems. South Carolina and America's farmers have a strong advocate and friend on the Ag Committee in Lindsey Graham." ####
12.11.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was one of eight Republicans to vote against the final bill to come before the Republican-controlled 109th Congress in the early morning hours Saturday. Graham noted that he supported many of the provisions in the $39.4 billion legislation. However, the bill came to the Senate without opportunity for amendments or changes plus the addition of a last-minute free trade pact with Haiti led him to vote against the bill. The vote was 79-9. “I’ve grown tired of having to choose between a bad process and a few good provisions,” said Graham. “It was these kinds of actions – throwing everything in at the last minute but the kitchen sink – that got Republicans in trouble with the voters.” “There are several pro-growth tax relief extensions in the bill including college tuition deductions, the new market tax credit, the work opportunity tax credit, and the welfare-to-work credit that are sound policy” said Graham. “In addition there was a provision that stopped a reduction in payments for physicians who treat Medicare patients. “I wish I could have supported the bill, but I just don’t feel comfortable with some of the other provisions that were included or the process by which we were voting on the legislation,” said Graham. Graham noted one provision he opposed – a free trade agreement with Haiti – was particularly unsettling. The provision was added to the catch-all even though it had never had a congressional hearing, never passed committee, or been subject to any other congressional action. Instead it was inserted behind closed doors, passed by the House of Representatives, and sent to the Senate without any opportunity for changes. Graham was able to secure an agreement from fellow Senators to have Congress revisit the Haiti trade provision next year and allow the textile community to have their say about the provision before it is certified by the President and implemented. However, the legislation still passed. “We must be weary of new trade deals that could end up costing us more jobs,” said Graham. “I think the Haiti provision opens another door for China to illegally ship textiles into our country and further devastate the manufacturing community.” “I was very disappointed with the way the session ended,” said Graham. “It’s sad to say but the final hours and actions of the Republican-controlled Congress were not a pretty sight.” ####
12.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Rowesville Fire Department will receive a $187,986 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program provides funds that may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
12.06.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced youth programs in Columbia and Spartanburg will receive nearly $1.4 million in federal grants to help young adults complete high school and receive on-the-job training in construction. The Youthbuild program assists students age 16 to 24. Students in the program complete their high school education and build or renovate single-family homes and multi-family apartments. The units are then sold to low-income individuals and families. Columbia Benedict-Allen Community Development Corporation will receive $700,000. Spartanburg The Housing Authority for the City of Spartanburg will receive $700,000. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
12.06.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on release of the Iraq Study Group report. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “I appreciate the views expressed by the members of the ISG and the time they have devoted to this endeavor. They are a distinguished group of Americans and I will review their recommendations along with those that will be made in several other reports in the coming months. “One of the major provisions of the ISG report is the need to engage Iran and Syria about the outcome in Iraq. We must recognize the limitations of this approach. “By his words and actions, the President of Iran has shown himself to be a very dangerous man. My biggest fear in talking directly to him is that he will take it as a sign of weakness and use it to continue his nuclear ambitions. In many ways, a nuclear-armed Iran, combined with their current political leadership, is even more dangerous than a failed state in Iraq. “Syria is a police state and led by a brutal dictator. President Assad does not believe in democracy, freedom, or the rule of law. These are the cornerstone values we are trying to help foster in a free and democratic Iraq. “I hope our nation can be united around the idea that winning in Iraq makes us stronger. However if that proves to be impossible, I would rather our nation be divided behind a winning strategy than united behind a losing one. “I believe Iraq is the central battlefront in the War on Terror and we have no alternative but to win.” ######
12.05.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 LINDSEY GRAHAM: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to add my voice to many others who have praised you for your leadership. I've really enjoyed being on this committee and you've made it a real pleasure to serve here. Dr. Gates, thank you for your willingness to serve. It looks like we're going to be working together for at least a couple more years. Things are going pretty well for you right now. Iran, do you believe the Iranians are trying to acquire lethal weapons capability? ROBERT GATES: Yes, sir, I do. GRAHAM: Do you think the president of Iran is lying when he says he's not? GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Do you believe the Iranians would consider using that nuclear weapons capability against the nation of Israel? GATES: I don't know that they would do that, Senator. I think that the risks for them, obviously, are enormously high. I think that they see value. GRAHAM: If I may? GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: The president of Iran has publicly disavowed the existence of the Holocaust, has publicly stated that he would like to wipe Israel off the map. Do you think he's kidding? GATES: No, I don't think he's kidding, but I think there are, in fact, higher powers in Iran than he, than the president. And I think that, while they are certainly pressing, in my opinion, for nuclear capability, I think that they would see it in the first instance as a deterrent. They are surrounded by powers with nuclear weapons: Pakistan to their east, the Russians to the north, the Israelis to the west and us in the Persian Gulf. GRAHAM: Can you assure the Israelis that they will not attack Israel with a nuclear weapon if they acquire one? GATES: No, sir, I don't think that anybody can provide that assurance. GRAHAM: Is Iraq the central battlefront in the war on terror? GATES: I think that it is one of the central fronts in the war on terror? GRAHAM: What would be the others? GATES: I think that what we have seen since the destruction of Afghanistan or since the destruction of the Taliban regime is a metastasized terror threat from the jihadists, where indigenous radicals in countries like Britain, like Spain and like the United States are in fact planning terrorists operations and activities. So I think that while Iraq certainly is an important front in the war on terror and particularly now that all these other bad actors are there that I indicated -- described earlier -- I think we face a more disbursed threat that's really a very amorphous kind of second front. GRAHAM: Would a loss in Iraq in terms of a failed state affect the war on terror? GATES: I think it would create the conditions where you could have a replication of what happened in Afghanistan, and yes, it could be. GRAHAM: Why is Al Qaida in Iraq? What do they fear? Why are they fighting in Iraq? What is their goal? GATES: I'm no expert on it, Senator, but I believe that they would -- they are very eager to see us leave the region -- not just Iraq, but leave the region... GRAHAM: Are they threatened by democracy? GATES: Absolutely. GRAHAM: Is it the terrorists' worst nightmare for a democratic state to be formed in Iraq where a woman can have her say about her children and people of religious differences can live together under the rule of law? GATES: I certainly hope it's one of their worst nightmares. GRAHAM: Well, according to them, it is. Now, do you believe the terrorist Al Qaida goal and other terrorist organizations, to expand on what you said, includes not only driving us out of Iraq but the region? GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Do you believe it includes toppling of all moderate regimes in the region? GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: All regimes that are unfaithful to their view of religion? GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Do you believe it is the ultimate destruction of the state of Israel? GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Do you believe in the Powell doctrine? GATES: I am very familiar with it, and I would say... GRAHAM: Do you believe in it or not? GATES: Well, sir there are different -- there are eight elements to the Powell doctrine. GRAHAM: Well, let me sum up the one: You go to war with overwhelming force. GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Do you believe we have the overwhelming force we need to do all the missions required of us to bring about a democracy in Iraq at this point in time? GATES: I need to talk to the commanders to find that out. GRAHAM: The jobs assigned to the military leadership commanders would include, do you agree, eventually trying to disarm the militia because you can't have a democracy with armed religious and political parties. GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Do you also believe it includes training the Iraqi army. GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Do you believe it includes rebuilding the police force, because I think it's a miserable failure and we need to start over, virtually. GATES: It's not entirely clear to me, Senator, that that should be the responsibility of the Department of Defense. But we have -- as best I can tell, the department has that responsibility now. GRAHAM: To provide security for economic development – 40 percent of all money spent on economic development projects now are security-related. That would be one mission of a military commander in Iraq, to give security to the economic development, to get this country up and running? GATES: Yes, sir. GRAHAM: Is there any doubt in your mind that the current level of troops are overwhelming when it comes to fulfilling all those missions, including defeating the insurgents? Could you honestly tell this committee and this country that the number of troops we have to do all the jobs I've described, including defeating the insurgents, is overwhelming? GATES: No, sir, I do not believe it is overwhelming. GRAHAM: If we redeploy to a friendly country, under these circumstances, do you think it's likely that the terrorist organizations that we've just talked about would come after us in that country, trying to prove to the American people there is no safe place for you in this region? GATES: Probably so. GRAHAM: Do you believe, if we set timetables or a policy to withdraw at a date certain, it would be seen by the extremists as a sign of weakness; the moderates would be disheartened and it would create a tremendous impediment to the moderate forces coming forward in Iraq? GATES: I think a specific timetable would give – would essentially tell them how long they have to wait until we're gone. GRAHAM: Thank you.
12.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after John Bolton submitted his resignation as United States Ambassador to the United Nations. “John Bolton has done a tremendous job as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. He’s been forceful in articulating our country’s positions. He’s been a coalition builder against rogue regimes and also pushed for much-needed and long-overdue reforms at the U.N. “It is a tremendous loss to lose John Bolton’s service during this critical time in the War on Terror. “The efforts by Senate Democrats to prevent him from continuing to serve as our U.N. Ambassador do a great disservice to our national interests. It also unfairly undermines President Bush’s prerogative to appoint his own people to his team. “There’s no doubt Bolton is extremely qualified and has done tremendous work in the position. Our nation has benefited by his service at the U.N.” ######
12.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on William ‘Billy’ Wilkins stepping down as Chief Judge of the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in July. He said: “For the last twenty-five years Billy Wilkins has epitomized what a judge should be by his temperament, intellect, and sound judgment. Great judges not only have a keen understanding of law, but a keen understanding of people and how the law serves them. “Judge Wilkins has never forgotten his South Carolina roots and he’s made us all proud by his service at the highest levels of the federal judiciary. He is truly one of our state’s finest jurists and most distinguished public servants. We appreciate his years of service presiding over one of the most conservative circuit courts in the nation.” #####
11.29.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $80,000 in grants to fire departments in Folly Beach and Salley. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded these competitive grants,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for Operations and Firefighter Safety Programs. Fire departments may use these funds for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Folly Beach: Folly Beach Fire Department will receive $61,940. Salley: Salley Volunteer Fire Department will receive $18,240. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
11.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $400,000 in grants to fire departments in Columbia, Greer, Lancaster, Spartanburg and Union. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “South Carolina's firefighters risk their lives to protect our families each day and I'm proud they have been awarded this competitive grant,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded for Operations and Firefighter Safety Programs. Fire departments may use these funds for training, wellness, and fitness programs, the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: COLUMBIA: The Irmo Fire District will receive $60,480. GREER: The City of Greer Fire Department will receive $51,300. LANCASTER: The Charlotte Road/Van Wyck Volunteer Fire Department will receive $39,900. SPARTANBURG: The Croft Fire Department will receive $93,888. The City of Spartanburg Department of Public Safety will receive $79,323. UNION: The Union Public Safety Department will receive $80,101. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
11.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on Congressman Charlie Rangel’s plan to reintroduce legislation establishing a military draft. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. He said: “Now is not the time for political stunts. It is time for all Americans to come together to ensure we win the War in Iraq. “Introducing legislation to institute the draft is a serious matter. Any suggestion America would not be fighting the war in Iraq if other people were being sent implies that Americans are not overly concerned about the men and women serving in the all-volunteer force. I strongly disagree with that line of thought. “The all-volunteer force is capable of defending our nation. I believe those who choose to fight the war in Iraq and create a democracy from a dictatorship are making us safer. “There’s no doubt we need more men and women in uniform. I believe with concentrated effort we can grow the all-volunteer force by offering better benefits and pay. The good news is enlistment and retention among those who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan is sky high. The people in the military have a sense of purpose and know why they're fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan. “I respect Congressman Rangel’s service to our country, but I disagree with his thoughts on this matter. It’s also worth noting that Mr. Rangel voted against his own legislation to reinstitute the draft in October 2004. It failed in the U.S. House of Representatives 402-2.” ####
11.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint announced the U.S. Senate has approved the Senate’s Fiscal Year 2007 Military Construction – Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. The legislation includes more than $56 million for military construction projects in South Carolina. “South Carolinians are very proud and very supportive of the military facilities in our state,” said Graham. “They are woven into the fabric of our community and are key components in defending our interests abroad. The projects funded in this bill recognize the contributions South Carolina makes to our military and demonstrates a commitment to providing state-of-the-art facilities for our men and women in uniform.” “It is important that we ensure the operational readiness and quality of life for our men and women in uniform and their families,” DeMint said. “These projects in South Carolina are vital to supporting our deployed troops and their loved ones who make enormous sacrifices here at home.” Projects in the bill include: Beaufort $14.92 million to construct a new enlisted dining facility at the Marine Corps Air Station- Beaufort Charleston $10.2 million to replace the child development center at the Charleston Air Force Base Shaw Air Force Base, Sumter $16 million for a new enlisted dormitory $9.3 million for construction and paving for an aircraft alert facility $6.2 million for an aircraft support equipment shop and storage The bill must now be approved by a joint House/Senate conference committee and signed into law by the President. ####
11.14.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Bamberg Job Corps Center will receive a $3,648,342 grant to construct a new physical fitness building and vocational shop. The project will include the construction of a 17,000 square-foot physical fitness building and a 4,500 square-foot vocational shop, as well as the demolition of three existing buildings. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Labor. ####
11.13.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – According to published reports, the Democratic leadership in Congress will begin pushing for withdrawal of American troops from Iraq in the coming months. U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina), a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, today said he would oppose such a move and work to defeat such a proposal. “I will adamantly oppose any efforts by a Democrat-controlled Congress to mandate troop withdrawals or set deadlines for withdrawal from Iraq,” said Graham. “To start withdrawing troops would be equivalent to surrendering in the central battle front in the War on Terror. A misguided proposal such as this should hit a wall in the Senate. “This is not the time to withdraw from the fight,” said Graham. “It’s time to recommit ourselves to the moderate forces in Iraq and redouble our efforts to defeat the foreign fighters and insurgents. The terrorists know what is on the line in Iraq. They view Iraq as the central battle front. We must meet the challenge head-on and defeat them.” Graham has supported sending additional troops to Iraq to improve the security situation, enlisting sympathetic nations in the region to take ownership of the outcome and pushing the Iraqi leadership to move quickly to take over control of the country. He has also argued failure in Iraq empowers Iran and will lead to regional chaos. “I do believe we need to push the Iraqi government to disarm the militias and come up with political compromises allowing the country can move forward,” said Graham. “However, nothing can be achieved until the violence is reduced. That should be our goal in the coming months, to provide a better security situation on the ground. “The war in Iraq is front and center in our efforts to win the Global War on Terror,” concluded Graham. “We need to make a World War II-like commitment to winning in Iraq and ensure the American people fully understand what is on the line should we fail.” #####
11.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Tuesday was a bad night for Republicans in Washington. However, if we learn from our mistakes the fortunes of the Republican Party and the nation can quickly improve. Rather than Democrats winning, Republicans lost. Voters didn’t pick a Democratic over Republican agenda. On many fronts, Republicans confused voters about what we stand for. Voters were not happy with the way we conducted ourselves when it comes to spending their hard-earned tax dollars or efforts to ensure we have a successful outcome in the War on Terror. They made it clear we’ve spent too much time talking about problems and not enough solving them. If there’s one lesson to be learned from Tuesday night it is Republicans win when we act like Republicans. We get into trouble when we don’t. Some of our successes such as cutting taxes, appointing conservative Supreme Court and federal court judges, banning partial birth abortion, and class-action and bankruptcy reform were washed away by corruption scandals and fiscally irresponsible behavior. Iraq did play a part. However, we must remember Senator Joe Lieberman was elected as an Independent in a very blue state despite his support for the war. Connecticut voters may have disagreed with his war position but they believe he took a principled stand putting the best interests of the country above political party. Conversely, many Americans believe the Republican majority chose self-interest over the common good. Here’s a roadmap for Republicans to reconnect with voters: * Budget reform and tax simplification are top priorities. We should push for a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution to rein in Congress’ insatiable spending appetite. We should also seek a two year budget cycle allowing for more spending oversight. * Rein in the runaway practice of congressional earmarks which exploded on our watch. Alaska’s Bridge to Nowhere -- a $250 million bridge to benefit 50 people -- is a classic example of how we’ve lost our way. Also, reforming earmarking and debating all budget items in public will deny corrupt lobbyists and politicians the dark corners in which they operate. * Because of President Bush’s tax cuts for families and small business owners, the jobless rate is at a five-year low and 6.8 million new jobs have been added since August of 2003. Our national economy is humming. We must push congressional Democrats to ensure the tax cuts are extended and the benefits of tax relief continue in coming years. * We need to return to Social Security reform. President Bush deserves credit for taking on this issue which must be solved for future generations of Americans. We should put all options on the table including innovation to solve Social Security’s looming bankruptcy. Hopefully, Democrats in the majority will feel the need to be constructive and say more than “NO” to solutions which lead to Social Security solvency. * Solve our immigration problems. Legislation should include better border security, employment verification requirements, punishment for those in the country illegally and a guest worker program. Both amnesty and the idea we are going to deport 12 million people should be rejected as unworkable, impractical solutions. * We must become energy independent. Our reliance on Middle East oil poses a threat to our economy and creates national security concerns as well. Global climate change is real and nuclear energy, hydrogen, and other alternative sources of energy provide us an opportunity to address both national security and environmental concerns. * The War in Iraq is front and center in our efforts to win the global War on Terror. We need to make a World War II commitment to winning in Iraq and ensure the American people fully understand what is on the line should we fail. Unfortunately, we have treated Iraq more as a police action than the central battlefront. * We need more troops on the ground in Iraq to improve the security situation, enlist sympathetic nations in the region to take ownership of the outcome, and push the Iraqi leadership to move quickly to take over control of the country. Failure in Iraq empowers Iran and will lead to regional chaos. * We need another 50,000 troops in the Army and Marine Corps and we must provide them with better benefits. Our soldiers are promoting freedom throughout the world and serving admirably in hot spots like Afghanistan and Iraq. We also have security concerns about dangerous situations in North Korea and Iran. We need more troops in uniform to help relieve pressure on our soldiers being sent overseas on deployment with increasing frequency and for longer periods of time. During difficult times the country deserves bold leadership on tough issues. The Republican Party, if it adjusts and chooses, is capable of providing that leadership. We will be fine in future elections if we return to these core principles. NOTE: This article appeared in South Carolina newspapers beginning Sunday, November 12.
10.31.2006	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement in response to comments from Senator John Kerry (D-Massachusetts). Yesterday Senator Kerry said, “You know, education, if you make the most of it, you study hard, you do your homework and you make an effort to be smart, you can do well. If you don't, you get stuck in Iraq.” Graham responded: “I very much appreciate Senator Kerry’s service to our nation, but I think it would be appropriate for him to apologize for his comments about our service members in Iraq. “His comments could only be taken as an insult to our military members and their families who have chosen to serve in Iraq. The Armed Forces of 2006 are made up of the brightest, most dedicated young men and women to ever serve our nation. They understand that terrorism has to be fought, not appeased. “These comments are beneath Senator Kerry. I hope he will correct the record.” #####
10.24.2006	Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on comments made by the U.S. Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad and General George Casey. Graham said: “I’m not for cutting and running in Iraq. I’m not for a phased withdrawal from Iraq. I’m for winning. “To win in Iraq will require a readjustment of our strategy and for us to show the resolve to finish the job. Iraq has been and continues to be a central front in our efforts to fight and win the War on Terror. If we do not fight and win, we will only embolden the terrorists and terrorist-supporting states such as Syria and Iran. “Osama Bin Laden understands what is on the line in Iraq. He would love nothing more than to see us fail in our efforts to bring freedom and democracy to a Middle Eastern nation. “There’s no doubt we need a better security apparatus in Iraq. “We are on the verge of chaos and the current security plan is not working. If it means we need more American troops on the ground, a position I have long been supportive of, then we need to get it done. “The statements made today by the U.S. Ambassador and General Casey are very encouraging. They understand the security situation is lacking and working with our Iraqi allies, they understand the need to get it right. I’m very encouraged the Iraqi government understands the need to deal with the armed militias. You cannot have democracy where you have armed political parties. “We need to look forward in Iraq. The international community needs to be held to account for what happens there. In fact, we should all be held accountable. A failed state in Iraq is a loss for the whole world. “It is important we do not set artificial timetables for the withdrawal of American troops. This will only serve to embolden our enemies. History will not judge us by when we left Iraq but by what we leave behind.” ######
10.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the South Carolina Health Insurance Pool will receive a $1,978,624 grant to help offset losses from 2005. The South Carolina Health Insurance Pool allows individuals with serious health problems, who do not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid and can not obtain individual insurance coverage, to purchase insurance through a state administered program. In 2005, approximately 2,200 South Carolinians were enrolled in this plan. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
10.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement after the arrival of the Chief Justice of the United States John Roberts to South Carolina. Roberts will visit the University of South Carolina School of Law and the Charleston School of Law. Graham invited Chief Justice Roberts to the law schools and will accompany him throughout the trip. Graham said: “Chief Justice Roberts possesses the best qualities one could hope for in a judge. He has a keen intellect, relies on sound judgment and possesses a fair disposition. I’m honored he would take time out of his busy schedule to visit our law schools and interact with faculty and students. “From my travels throughout the world one thing that is crystal clear to me is that nations with viable, competent and just legal systems are blessed with stability and opportunity. Unfortunately, in many areas of the world, the rule of law is non-existent. The rule of the gun controls society and the result is chaos and a lack of hope. “This visit by the Chief Justice of the United States will long be remembered by the South Carolina legal community. It recognizes our state’s efforts, both at USC and the Charleston School of Law, to train future lawyers and judges for our state and nation.” #####
10.17.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was at the White House with a small group of Senators and Representatives flanking the President as he signed the Military Commissions Act of 2006 into law. The legislation establishes military tribunals and provides the legal infrastructure to fight and win the War on Terror. “This law will make our nation stronger and the terrorists weaker,” said Graham. “I was proud to stand with President Bush and work with his team, along with other Members of Congress, to pass this historic legislation. It can now be said the executive and legislative branches are on the same sheet of legal music when it comes to detaining and trying terrorist enemy combatants.” Graham noted the major points of the legislation include: • Protecting President Bush’s CIA program for High-Value Targets (HVT) by allowing aggressive interrogation techniques -- classified in nature -- that will continue to yield good information protecting our nation from terrorists. The CIA has the clarity they needed regarding interrogation techniques and for the first time clearly defined what constitutes a ‘grave breach’ of the Geneva Convention. By accomplishing this goal, the CIA can move forward with their program in a manner consistent with our international obligations and our values. • Prohibiting terror suspects and others from suing CIA agents or their families for doing their jobs. • Establishing military tribunals in a manner consistent with our national values. The military tribunal system protects our nation’s secrets in an unprecedented manner while at the same time allowing defendants the ability to confront evidence against them. To do otherwise, would run the serious risk of the Supreme Court rejecting the legislation. Congress and President Bush achieved the correct balance between protecting ourselves in this war without setting precedent that would jeopardize our troops in future wars. • Prevents terror suspects from filing lawsuits in federal court. Federal judges will be allowed to conduct limited review of certain legal issues but will not be able to take over military decisions determining who is and who is not an enemy combatant. “Under the Military Commissions Act, we establish military tribunals in a manner consistent with our national values and demonstrate our nation is rendering justice, not vengeance,” said Graham. “They are modeled after our own court-martial system and I strongly believe the Supreme Court will uphold them. They represent a model of justice during a time of war our nation can be proud of. “Working together Congress and President Bush rose to the occasion and demonstrated it was possible to provide tools to the President, CIA, and military to fight this vicious enemy and do so without abandoning our Geneva Convention obligations or national values,” said Graham. “After four years of legal starts and stops, we can now put terrorists on trial and administer justice.” #####
10.13.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the presence of coalition forces in Iraq. “It would be highly irresponsible to withdraw coalition forces from Iraq at this crucial time in the young democracy’s evolution. The popularly elected government is only four months old. Without the presence of coalition forces, insurgents and terrorist organizations trying to destabilize the Iraqi democracy would win the day. All out civil war is likely without a strong coalition presence, and almost certainly would lead to a wider regional conflict. “It is imperative the coalition continue to support this young democracy militarily, allowing the Iraqi police and military to stand up and protect their nation. Withdrawal of coalition forces would be a devastating blow to their efforts. “However, current troop levels seem inadequate to the task of securing parts of Iraq. Instead of withdrawing troops, we should strengthen the coalition presence in unstable areas so a security environment can emerge that will allow for a peaceful, political solution to Iraq’s problems instead of a violent confrontation.” ####
10.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced jurisdictions throughout South Carolina will receive more than $355,000 dollars to help purchase 2,844 bulletproof vests. “Law enforcement personnel put their lives on the line to protect the public,” said Graham. “We ought to ensure they have the best available equipment to protect themselves as they protect us.” “As protectors of our families and homes, law enforcement officials risk their own safety on a daily basis,” said DeMint. “These men and women are true heroes in our communities and the vests will help keep them safe while in the line of duty.” The Bulletproof Vest Partnership (BVP) Grants provide funding priority to jurisdictions with a population under 100,000. The funds will pay up to 50 percent of the cost of bulletproof vests. Jurisdictions with populations of 100,000 or more are eligible to receive funding with money remaining in the grant fund. Award recipients include: Counties Aiken- $1,389 for 25 vests Beaufort- $22,246 for 301 vests Berkeley- $16,557 for 80 vests Charleston- $16,481 for 223 vests Cherokee- $6,425 for 20 vests Clarendon- $2,445 for 9 vests Dorchester- $7,870 for 30 vests Georgetown- $9,139 for 36 Horry- $9,399 for 200 vests Lancaster- $4,078 for 15 vests Lexington- $4,349 for 76 vests McCormick- $4,730 for 17 vests Newberry- $2,681 for 11 vests Oconee- $15,511 for 26 vests Orangeburg- $6,237 for 25 vests Pickens- $527 for 10 vests Richland- $5,595 for 100 vests Spartanburg- $2,818 for 56 vests Cities Abbeville- $1,391 for 5 vests Aiken- $1,113 for 4 vests Aynor- $475 for 2 vests Barnwell- $2,650 for 10 vests Beaufort- $4,134 for 15 vests Belton- $1,757 for 6 vests Burnettown- $2,692 for 8 vests Calhoun Falls- $2,519 for 8 vests Cayce- $2,105 for 10 vests Charleston- $10,882 for 40 vests Clinton- $10,070 for 8 vests Columbia- $15,649 for 235 vests Conway- $5,290 for 20 vests Duncan- $1,353 for 5 vests Easley- $14,328 for 42 vests Folly Beach- $528 for 2 vests Goose Creek- $6,300 for 18 vests Greenville- $1,288 for 5 vests Greenwood- $11,594 for 53 vests Irmo- $1,328 for 5 vests Lamar- $1,590 for 6 vests Lancaster- $4,224 for 13 vests Lexington- $900 for 4 vests Manning- $1,732 for 5 vests Mt. Pleasant- $4,968 for 17 vests Newberry- $959 for 5 vests North Augusta- $6,238 for 22 vests North Charleston- $14,375 for 50 vests North- $654 for 2 vests Orangeburg- $3,214 for 14 vests Pamplico- $874 for 3 vests Port Royal- $3,040 for 12 vests Simpsonville- $1,812 for 6 vests Spartanburg- $6,575 for 25 vests St. Matthews- $2,438 for 10 vests Sumter- $6,762 for 25 vests Surfside Beach- $2,320 for 8 vests Travelers Rest- $1,554 for 6 vests Walhalla- $3,339 for 12 vests Walterboro- $3,756 for 8 vests West Columbia- $2,525 for 10 vests Other Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport- $7,000 for 20 vests State of South Carolina- $39,187 for 800 vests The Bulletproof Vest Partnership Program grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
10.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on reports of a North Korea nuclear test. Graham said: “The worst thing that could now happen is for the international community to be all talk and no action when it comes to North Korea. “We must work together with our allies in the region to contain the threat posed by North Korea. That includes passing sanctions at the United Nations that have bite. We also should push forward on a missile defense system capable of intercepting a rocket launch and stopping the proliferation of nuclear technology or materials from North Korea. Their track record when it comes to proliferation of weapons technology is downright frightening. “Hopefully the international community will realize that rogue regimes bent on acquiring nuclear weapons must be forcefully dealt with before it’s too late. Iran, with its own international ambitions, is closely studying how we deal with North Korea. Hollow threats will be seen by rogue regimes like Iran as a green light for their nuclear ambitions.” #####
10.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $1.8 million in grants to fire departments in Batesburg, Blacksburg, Clover, Heath Springs, Holly Hill, Honea Path, Lancaster, Marietta, Moncks Corner, Nichols, Ridgeville, Seneca, Sheldon, Springfield, Una, Walhalla, and Woodruff. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants will help our local fire departments by providing them the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Batesburg Sandy Ridge Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $145,350 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Blacksburg Antioch Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $32,300 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Clover Clover Fire Department will receive a $59,688 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Heath Springs Rich Hill Fire Department will receive a $39,900 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Holly Hill Holly Hill Fire Department will receive a $187,768 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Honea Path Dunklin Fire District will receive a $105,275 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Lancaster Elgin Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $68,590 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Marietta River Falls Fire Department will receive a $28,167 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Moncks Corner Cordesville Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $68,551 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Moncks Corner Rural Fire Department will receive a $109,944 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Whitesville Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $42,180 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Nichols Nichols Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $177,650 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Ridgeville Lebanon Fire Department of Berkeley County will receive a $191,900 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Seneca Friendship Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $62,030 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Sheldon Sheldon Township Fire District will receive an $83,198 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Springfield Springfield Fire Department will receive a $187,720 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Una Una Fire Department will receive a $114,475 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Walhalla Pickett Post-Camp Oak Fire Department will receive a $23,313 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Woodruff Woodruff Fire Department will receive a $171,000 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
10.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced four Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) in South Carolina will receive $8 million to help support national security and nonproliferation missions. “Nuclear security and reducing the threat of global terrorism are vitally important to protecting and defending our national interests,” said Graham. “I am proud that South Carolina’s HBCU’s are taking a leading role in preparing the next generation of professionals in these fields.” "This is a great opportunity to draw more students from South Carolina into scientific fields that are vital to national security and our state's HBCU's will be out front recruiting these students," said DeMint. The goal of the program is to increase the number of minority students pursuing science and technology careers. The grants will help establish a partnership with the next generation of creative and committed leaders who will assist the Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) in meeting its national security demands. The grants will also help to attract minority graduates for employment within NNSA. Award recipients include: Allen University- $4,000,000 Create Science Research Infrastructure for Allen University to Promote and Implement NNSA Science Research Initiatives with High School and Undergraduate Students Claflin University- $2,000,000 Program for the Preparation of a Technologically Literate Science Workforce to Meet the Needs of the 21st Century South Carolina State University- $1,000,000 Enhancement of Research, Environmental Management, and Science Curriculum Voorhees College- $1,000,000 Lighting the Way Part II: Securing Our Future The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration. ####
10.02.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- It has been a productive week for the future of port security and Project Seahawk at the Port of Charleston. Last week, the U.S. Congress passed legislation, the SAFE Port Act, calling for the establishment of interagency port security centers modeled on Project Seahawk at every high-priority port in the United States within the next three years. Closer to home, the Department of Justice has agreed to U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham’s (R-South Carolina) request for the Department to release an additional $11.5 million in funding for continued operation of Project Seahawk at the Port of Charleston. The funding will sustain Seahawk operations for at least the next twelve months. “Project Seahawk is now the national model for port security,” said Graham. “We have had a productive few weeks when it comes to port security and Project Seahawk. With the strong collaborative support of Representative Henry Brown in the House we also have been able to have funding released from the Department of Justice which will help Seahawk continue operations at the port. Port security has been a weak link in our homeland security efforts. I’m glad to see we continue to take steps to ensure that we can protect ports in South Carolina and across the nation.” Graham noted the SAFE Port Act contains language he authored that establishes interagency operational centers for port security throughout the country. The “Seahawk Centers” would be run by the Coast Guard and include the Department of Homeland Security, Department of Defense, Department of Justice, and other federal agencies. State and local law enforcement, first responders, port authority or maritime exchange representatives would also be included in the joint operations. “The innovation and cooperation practiced at the Port of Charleston serves our state and nation well,” said Graham. “Project Seahawk is the answer to a very serious problem and I am pleased that we will put this innovative program into use across the nation. I’m very proud of the work being done in South Carolina to protect the port. This legislation will not only help keep Project Seahawk operating in Charleston, but it will help improve our port security operations across the nation.” “I, along with Representative Brown, will remain tireless advocates for Project Seahawk and national port security efforts,” said Graham. President Bush is expected to sign the bill into law in the coming days. ####
10.02.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – On Saturday, the U.S. Senate unanimously approved H.R. 5546, a bill to designate the Federal courthouse to be constructed in Greenville, South Carolina, as the “Carroll A. Campbell, Jr. U.S. Courthouse.” The legislation passed the U.S. House last Wednesday, and is now sent to President Bush for his signature. “I’m proud the Senate paid tribute to a man whose distinguished service as both governor and congressman helped usher in a new era of purpose and prosperity for the Palmetto State. Carroll and Iris were good friends and mentors to Debbie and me when I entered Congress. He never passed my office without stopping in to say hello and offer a well-timed word of advice. Carroll was an optimist and a visionary, and the building that will bear his name will not only serve as a gateway to Greenville but to all that is possible in South Carolina” said Senator Jim DeMint. “This is a fitting tribute to one of South Carolina’s most distinguished sons,” said U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham. “Governor Campbell reshaped South Carolina politics and was a trailblazer on many fronts. He was the first Governor to make an aggressive, successful effort to recruit large numbers of international businesses to our state and created a model we still follow today. He also helped reform and improve the way state government works for our citizens. I truly appreciate and admire all he has done for our state. There’s no doubt his lifetime of work will continue to pay dividends to our state for years to come.” “Carroll Campbell set the standard for what it means to be an effective congressman and governor,” Inglis said. “I often think, 'What would Gov. Campbell have done in this situation.' There's a whole generation of us who grew up into politics, looking to him as a guide.” The Senate legislation was sponsored by Senators DeMint and Graham. The U.S. House legislation was cosponsored by all members of the South Carolina delegation. ###
09.30.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) last night voted in support of the Secure Fence Act of 2006 which passed the Senate by a vote of 80-19. The legislation already passed the U.S. House of Representatives and will be sent to President Bush who has said he will sign the measure into law. “The first issue to address in immigration reform is border security,” said Graham. “Without strong physical border security no immigration reform will be successful in stopping the flood of illegal crossings. The porous nature of our border doesn’t just pose immigration problems, but national security ones as well.” “Unfortunately, additional fencing by itself does not address all our immigration problems,” continued Graham. “Nearly half of the illegal immigrants in the United States today never illegally crossed the border. They came to the United States as tourists, students or workers and never left. In many cases, they have obtained employment using fraudulent documents which put employers in the no-win situation of determining whether they can legally work in the United States.” Graham noted that immigration is about jobs and that as a nation we must better control who gets them. This can be accomplished by creating of a guest worker program and instituting a worker verification system that lets employers know whether a job applicant can legally work in the United States. The Senate immigration bill created a tamper-proof biometric worker verification card which would be issued to guest workers. The card would enable employers to differentiate between legal and illegal workers before hiring them. It also authorized the hiring of 5,000 new interior enforcement investigators over the next five years to uphold our employment laws. “President Bush and I continue to push for comprehensive immigration reform,” said Graham. ““It’s time for our nation to have a permanent, not partial, solution to illegal immigration.” #####
09.29.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Senate passed the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act and the Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area Study Act. The legislation has already passed the U.S. House of Representatives and will now be sent to President Bush for his signature. The purpose of the Gullah/Geechee heritage corridor is to: Recognize the important contributions made to American culture and history by African-Americans known as the Gullah/Geechee who settled in the coastal counties of South Carolina and Georgia. Assist state and local governments and public and private entities in South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida in interpreting the story of the Gullah/Geechee and preserving Gullah/Geechee folklore, arts, crafts, and music. Assist in identifying and preserving sites, historical data, artifacts, and objects associated with the Gullah/Geechee for the benefit and education of the public. “I would like to thank my colleagues in the Senate for coming together to assist us in preserving a piece of South Carolina’s heritage,” said Graham. “It’s important we recognize the contributions of these South Carolinians and pass along their story to future generations. I would also like to thank my colleague Jim Clyburn for his efforts in pushing this forward in the House of Representatives.” Graham noted that in addition to the Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor Act the bill also contained the Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area Study Act. The bill: Directs the Secretary of the Interior to study and report on the suitability and feasibility of designating specified South Carolina counties, cities, and public sites as the Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area. “I am pleased that this study will recognize the history of South Carolina’s important role in our nation’s fight for independence,” said Graham. The study area will include the following counties in South Carolina: Anderson, Pickens, Greenville County, Spartanburg, Cherokee County, Greenwood, Laurens, Union, York, Chester, Darlington, Florence, Chesterfield, Marlboro, Fairfield, Richland, Lancaster, Kershaw, Sumter, Orangeburg, Georgetown, Dorchester, Colleton, Charleston, Beaufort, Calhoun, Clarendon, and Williamsburg. South Carolina has over 200 Revolutionary War sites, more than any other state, and is currently celebrating the 225th Anniversary of most of these battlegrounds. Although the Southern Campaign is considered by many the turning point of the Revolution, no heritage corridor currently exists to commemorate the Southern Campaign. ####
09.29.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, DC - Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) today announced that the Department of Defense Authorization bill conference report finalized today includes an amendment that will improve TRICARE benefits for National Guard members and Reservists, allowing all members of the Selected Reserve and their families to enroll in TRICARE with an across the board cost-sharing of 28 percent. Today’s victory builds on the Senators’ longstanding commitment to ensuring that members of our National Guard and Reserve and their families have access to the health care benefits they need and deserve. “I’m pleased that after three years of work the House and Senate have finally agreed to make military health care coverage available to every member of the Guard and Reserve,” said Graham. “This long overdue benefit will help our recruitment, retention, and readiness efforts for our stressed reserve component. Every reservist and their family will be able to enjoy continuity of care, whether they are called to active duty or not. I appreciate the support of Senator Clinton in this effort along with Senators DeWine, Leahy, Chambliss, Allen, Warner and Levin. Senator Clinton and I have been fortunate to have very good allies in this effort and Congress has stepped up to the plate to meet the health care needs of our Guard and Reserves.” “I am proud that we have taken another step forward for our National Guard members and Reservists and their families. All members of the Selected Reserve and their families will now have access to TRICARE benefits, at one modest premium rate, regardless of their deployment status. This is the right thing to do for these brave men and women who are serving courageously on our behalf. This will also help ensure that our National Guard members and Reservists are medically ready to serve, which is critical to improving our preparedness,” said Senator Clinton. Senators Graham and Clinton first proposed expanding access to TRICARE for Guard Members and Reservists in 2003 when they introduced the National Guard and Reserves Reform Act for the 21st Century. Since then, they have worked steadily toward this goal, steadily securing expansions in TRICARE benefits for Guardsmen and Reservists. Last year, Senators Clinton and Graham secured passage of an amendment to the DoD Authorization bill that made all members of the Selected Reserve eligible to enroll in TRICARE and created a separate category based on whether a Guard member or Reservist had been deployed. Category 1 for members of the Selected Reserves who had been activated: members would accumulate one year of TRICARE coverage for every 90 days of active duty service and would only have to pay 28 percent of the cost. Category 2 established a 50-50 cost share for those without health insurance due to unemployment or lack of employer-provided coverage. And Category 3 covered the remainder of members of the Selected Reserve who did not fit in the other categories, allowing them to buy into coverage at an 85 percent cost share. This built on expanded eligibility the Senators previously secured. In October 2004, legislation co-sponsored by Senators Graham and Clinton was signed into law as part of the Department of Defense Authorization bill which provided an extension of one additional year of TRICARE eligibility to Guard and Reserve members for every 90 days the Reservist or Guardsman serves. This expanded eligibility program went into effect at the Department of Defense in April 2005. The Graham-Clinton TRICARE efforts have gained support from many groups including the National Guard Association of the United States, the Reserve Officers Association, and the National Governors Association. The DoD Authorization bill conference report will now go to the Senate and House floors for approval and then to the President’s desk to be signed into law. ###
09.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the China tariff legislation. Graham and Senator Charles Schumer (D-New York) agreed to withdraw a vote on their 27.5 percent tariff legislation and agreed to work with the two ranking members of the Senate Finance Committee, Senators Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) and Max Baucus (D-Montana), on legislation to be introduced in the 110th Congress. Graham made this statement: “After conferring with President Bush today, I’m convinced the Administration is committed to a strategy that will require China to reform its currency manipulation practices. President Bush made clear to me today that he would like to give Secretary Paulson time to negotiate with the Chinese. The President also made clear that he shares my goal of making China compete on a level playing field. “Senator Schumer and I have agreed, at this time, to forego a vote on our tariff legislation. We also have agreed to work with Senators Grassley and Baucus on legislation in the 110th Congress addressing the issue if the Chinese do not move forward on currency reform. The legislation will be WTO compliant, have bite, and will become law if China continues down its current path. “The tariff legislation, whose chance of becoming law was always close to zero, did serve a useful purpose. As a result of our efforts, the Chinese no longer peg their currency to the American dollar. They have also begun a process of small revaluations -- totaling about 4 percent -- to occur. “More remains to be done and we will continue in our efforts to help American manufacturers compete on a level playing field.” #####
09.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives have passed legislation he helped draft establishing the trials of terror suspects held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba and providing legal infrastructure for the War on Terror. The legislation will now be sent to President Bush for his signature. “From the beginning President Bush and I shared the same goal,” said Graham. “Now, I’m proud to say the President and a decisive majority in Congress agree on the path to get there. “I’m very pleased the military trials of terrorists -- which have been put on hold for years -- will finally be allowed to move forward and justice will be rendered,” said Graham. “We were able to give the President, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), and the military the tools they need to continue protecting us from a vicious enemy. We accomplish these goals without abandoning our national values, Geneva Convention obligations, or the rule of law.” Graham noted the major elements of the legislation include: * Protecting President Bush’s CIA program for High-Value Targets (HVT) by allowing aggressive interrogation techniques -- classified in nature -- that will continue to yield good information protecting us from terrorists. The legislation gives the CIA the clarity they needed regarding interrogation techniques and for the first time clearly defined what constitutes a ‘grave breach’ of the Geneva Convention. By accomplishing this goal, the CIA can move forward with their program in a manner consistent with our international obligations and our values. * Prohibiting terror suspects and others from suing CIA agents or their families for doing their jobs. * Prevents terror suspects from filing lawsuits in federal court. Federal judges will be allowed to conduct limited review of certain legal issues but will not be able to take over military decisions determining who is and who is not an enemy combatant. * Establishing military tribunals in a manner consistent with our national values and demonstrating America is rendering justice, not vengeance. The military tribunal system protects our nation’s secrets in an unprecedented manner while at the same time allowing defendants the ability to confront evidence against them. To do otherwise, would run the serious risk of the Supreme Court rejecting the legislation. The legislation achieves the correct balance between protecting our nation in this war without setting precedent that could jeopardize our troops in future wars. “The Supreme Court ruled terrorist enemy combatants were covered by the Geneva Convention,” said Graham. “While President Bush and I did not agree with their ruling it was incumbent upon us to comply with their decision. A conviction against a terror suspect in a military tribunal is no good if it is later overturned by the Supreme Court.” “I’m proud of the role I played in drafting the legislation and believe my years of military legal experience helped identify problem areas and bring about constructive solutions,” said Graham. “I would not have been doing my job as Senator if I saw a problem with the President’s proposal – which I did – and didn’t work to address it in a constructive manner. “I also do not believe judges should be making military decisions in a time of war,” said Graham. “There is a reason the Germans and Japanese in World War II, and every other prisoner held by America, have never gone to federal court and asked a judge to determine their status. This is not a role the judiciary should be playing. They are not trained to make those decisions.” “I’m tremendously pleased with the overwhelming support for the compromise,” said Graham. “The legislative and executive branches have now come together in a decisive fashion to provide the legal infrastructure necessary to fight and win the War on Terror. However, I will not be completely satisfied until our work product is approved by the judiciary. They are the final piece of the puzzle. I hope and believe they will look favorably upon our work.” #####
09.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Lieutenant Governor’s Office on Aging will receive a $400,000 grant to help fund the state’s Aging and Disability Resource Center. The grant will help improve long term care options for seniors and people with disabilities. “Long-term care is a critical need for our state,” said Graham. “I know this grant will be put to good use by helping the Office on Aging continue its important work on behalf of senior citizens in our state.” The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
09.21.2006	Wes Hickman 202-224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on a deal reached between the Bush Administration and U.S. Senators. The deal allows the terrorism trials of suspected terrorists to go forward at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. It protects President Bush’s CIA program for High-Value Targets (HVT), addresses the use of classified information in the trials of terrorists, and upholds our nation’s long standing commitment to the Geneva Conventions. It also prohibits terror suspects from filing lawsuits in federal court against American troops and protects CIA agents from frivolous lawsuits. Graham said: “From the beginning we all shared the same goal. Now, we agree on the path to get there. “I’m very pleased with the productive negotiations we had with the White House. We fine-tuned the President’s proposal and have a much stronger work product than we did when we started. I appreciate the good faith negotiating done by Steve Hadley and Steve Bradbury. They are excellent advocates for President Bush and I appreciate their willingness to listen, understand, and work with us to address our concerns. “President Bush and I want to put terrorists on trial for their actions before, on, and after 9-11. We also want to protect our nation from future attacks. However we must do so in a manner consistent with our laws, values, and traditions. The legislation we put together accomplishes these objectives. Major Points of the Agreement: “The Supreme Court, in a decision I found troubling, decided to apply Geneva Convention protections to the War on Terror. Their decision is binding, but they gave Congress and the Administration wide latitude on its implementation. “It was a false choice to think we had to choose between protecting the CIA program and abandoning our Geneva Convention obligations. It was also a false choice to think that we could not protect national security if we allowed a tribunal defendant to confront classified evidence against them. I think our legislation shows we are able to accomplish both objectives. “We allow an effective and aggressive CIA program designed to gather good information to protect us from the terrorists to continue. The program will operate in a manner that will not put our troops in jeopardy today or in future wars by redefining or weakening our Geneva Convention protections. “We also allow a terror suspect to confront the evidence against them while protecting national security by using rules and procedures already in place in our military justice system. The trials of terror suspects will be conducted in a manner unprecedented in American history. They will provide the strongest protections for classified information, but do so in a manner that will not convict someone without them ever knowing the evidence. The Supreme Court: “Our efforts to put terror suspects on trial, gain convictions, and carry out a sentence are now two-thirds complete. The last hurdle – the Supreme Court -- will eventually judge whether our work product is constitutional. I think the fine-tuning done during negotiations give us a much better chance of passing constitutional muster. Conclusion: “Finally, I would not have been doing my job as Senator if I saw a problem with the President’s proposal – which I did – and didn’t work to address it in a constructive manner. I said it from the start, a conviction against a terror suspect in a military tribunal is no good if it is later overturned by the Supreme Court. “As a nation, we will be better served by taking a few extra days and doing the best job we can to ensure the work product will withstand constitutional scrutiny. If the Supreme Court again strikes the tribunal process down, it will send us back to the drawing board. More importantly, justice will once again be delayed against those who have committed terrible acts against our nation. #####
09.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) will receive a $10,790,377 grant to support cardiovascular research. MUSC is one of eleven schools throughout the country to receive funding as a Center of Biomedical Research Excellence. The funds will support the Center for Developmentally Based Cardiovascular Diseases. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ National Institutes of Health. ####
09.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the city of Manning will receive a $879,600 loan and a $50,000 grant to construct a 6,400 square foot addition to the city’s fire station. The loan and grant were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
09.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Horry-Georgetown Technical College will receive a $1.5 million grant to support the renovation of the former Myrtle Beach Air Force Base Hospital to serve as a regional Healthcare Education Center. The project will involve the conversion and renovation of the existing three-story shell of the former Base Hospital into a state-of-the-art Healthcare Education Center providing training programs for Grand Strand residents in nursing and allied health programs. This facility renovation will allow the addition and expansion of health professions training to meet the need of the region’s growing and understaffed health care sector. The renovated training facility will house nearly 52,000 square feet of instructional, meeting and office space. The grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce, will be matched with $5.8 million in local funds. ####
09.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Housing Authority of the City of Aiken will receive a $394,200 loan and a $100,000 grant for the construction of a community services building in Gloverville. The building will provide space for community services including housing programs and Head Start. The loan and grant were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
09.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the State of South Carolina will receive more than $10.5 million in housing grants. The grants will be administered by the Office of Community Grant Programs. The awards consist of $10,348,521 for the HOME Investment Partnership Program and $192,628 for the American Dream Downpayment Initiative. The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing for low-income households. It allows communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. The American Dream Downpayment Initiative promotes home ownership opportunities by providing downpayment and closing cost assistance to low-income and minority households. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
09.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Charleston County School District will receive a $313,195 grant and Lancaster County School District will receive a $639,188 grant to increase the participation of low-income students in Advanced Placement (AP) and pre-AP courses. The funds will be used to improve academic preparation for AP coursework and to expand the number of AP courses offered. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
09.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Elizabeth Dole and Lindsey Graham wrote to U.S. Trade Representative Susan Schwab yesterday, calling on her to defend the American textile industry from countries that engage in unfair trade practices, specifically expressing their concerns about the U.S.-Vietnam bilateral agreement. Dole and Graham have placed holds on legislation that would authorize the president to grant permanent normal trade relations status to Vietnam, which would pave the way for Vietnam to join the World Trade Organization. Dole and Graham are concerned about the potential negative impact that this agreement could have on Carolina textile jobs. “We believe that unless the government takes specific steps to ensure that the U.S. textile industry can be defended against a communist country that heavily subsidizes its textile and apparel sector, this agreement is likely to cause large-scale job losses in both of our states,” wrote Dole and Graham to Schwab. “We believe that it would be unreasonable to ask U.S. workers to compete with products manufactured under a state-run economy without at least providing an adequate mechanism for the industry to defend itself.” Dole and Graham pointed out that like China, Vietnam has a large and heavily subsidized textile sector that utilizes anti-free market principles to under-price producers in the United States. Vietnam is already one of the world’s largest exporters of textiles and apparel, and Commerce Department data confirms that Vietnam is the second largest supplier of apparel products that have been removed from quota control. Over the past five and a half years, Vietnam has increased its apparel exports by 1,186 percent in quota-free apparel categories. Dole and Graham urged Schwab to closely review all of the possible solutions to this problem and pledged to work closely with her on the issue. “The Carolinas are the heart of our nation’s textile industry… We want to ensure that this strong manufacturing tradition continues and that this industry will offer stable, good-paying jobs to our constituents well into the future,” wrote Dole and Graham. Background On May 31, the United States formalized an agreement that would pave the way for Vietnam to formally join the 149-member World Trade Organization (WTO). Congress must still vote on the WTO accession agreement for Vietnam. ###
09.18.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement: “The parties continue to share ideas with each other. Like all negotiations, this is and will continue to be a back-and-forth exchange of thoughts and proposals. I look forward to continuing to work with the White House and my Senate colleagues on addressing this important issue facing our nation. We share the President’s goal of enacting legislation preserving an effective CIA program to make us safe, upholding Geneva Convention protections for our troops, and passing constitutional muster.” #####
09.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Presidential news conference. Graham also released the contents of a letter addressed to Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice asking for clarification of the United States response should a situation arise involving a CIA paramilitary operative captured in Iran and placed on trial in that country. Graham said: “This is a time for thoughtful, reasoned discussions. What we do today will affect the nation not only in our current war but in future wars as well. “President Bush is sincere in wanting the tools necessary to protect the nation, including a viable CIA program. I share that goal and will provide those tools without eroding Geneva Convention protections necessary in this and future wars. “The Senate legislation, for the first time, clearly defines what would be criminal conduct by the CIA in the War on Terror. “It gives the CIA guidance that is long overdue. It also prevents CIA agents and their families from being sued for performing their duties on behalf of the nation. “The legislation clearly states the only law used to create civil or criminal liability for the CIA will be American law, not foreign law. “The legislation clears up confusion in American criminal law regarding detainee treatment standards and I am very proud of that fact. “Protecting CIA agents and programs from ill-defined criminal prosecution and legal liability is something all Americans should strive to achieve. The Senate bill achieves these goals without destroying Geneva Convention protections for our troops. “Weakening the Geneva Convention protections is an unnecessary step and will put our military members and others defending our nation at risk by jeopardizing the protections they currently are provided. “What is being billed as ‘clarifying’ our treaty obligations will be seen as ‘withdrawing’ from the treaty obligations. It will set precedent which could come back to haunt us. ######
09.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, DC - This morning, the United States and Russia signed an agreement that formally resolves liability issues which delayed construction of the Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel Fabrication Facility at the Savannah River Site (SRS). In 2000, the U.S. and Russia each agreed to dispose of 34 metric tons of surplus, weapons-grade plutonium by turning it into MOX fuel for use in existing commercial nuclear reactors. The MOX program is the most cost effective manner for converting excess weapons-grade plutonium into forms unusable for weapons by terrorists. Members of the South Carolina and Georgia delegations have worked tirelessly to overcome this hurdle. Having met with officials from the White House, the State Department, the Department of Energy, and the National Nuclear Security Administration the delegation made it clear that all the issues needed to be resolved so the program can move forward. "The events of today are the result of a lot of hard work and dedication by my colleagues and me," said Congressman Gresham Barrett (R-SC, 3). "This announcement is huge news for the MOX program, the Site, the state and the nation. It is further proof that the Administration joins the South Carolina and Georgia delegations in strong support of the MOX program, which is vital to our national security. I am confident that this news will alleviate any doubts that may exist in the minds of some as to the commitment behind the program. The agreement helps put all the pieces of the puzzle together and solves a major issue surrounding the delays in the MOX program. I look forward to working through the appropriation process to ensure that the US commitment is fulfilled." "This is great news for the future of SRS and the United States," said U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC). "The MOX program will play an essential national security role in the decades to come. I appreciate the dedication of the Bush Administration and the Department of State to see these negotiations through to the end. I appreciate the work of my congressional colleagues from South Carolina and Georgia for their efforts to keep this issue at the forefront. We remain committed to seeing the MOX program fully funded and operational." "This roadblock being removed shows a strong commitment on the part of both countries to move forward," said U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC). "I'm going to continue to push for the U.S. to fulfill its commitment and proceed with the funding of the MOX Fuel Fabrication Facility." "One of the reasons why the MOX facility is so important is that it will help both countries make great strides toward keeping weapons-grade plutonium out of the hands of terrorists," said U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss (R-GA). "I know the hard working professionals at Savannah River Site are ready and able to start work on the facility as soon as possible." "We have a world class facility in the Savannah River Site, and the agreement reached today is huge step forward," said U.S. Senator Johnny Isakson, (R-GA). "I am confident the Georgia and South Carolina delegations will continue to work hard to ensure that the MOX program is funded and operational as soon as possible." "In reaching an agreement today with Russia, we have taken a vital step in moving the MOX program forward. Our commitment to waste cleanup at the Savannah River Site remains strong, and I am confident that today's news will aid our efforts to expedite construction of the MOX facility and secure future funding," said Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC, 2). "This clears the final hurdle for getting the MOX facility up and going at SRS. I look forward to immediately passing whatever additional measures are necessary to bring it to completion. This is a tremendous step forward for not just the CSRA, but the entire nation in national security, independence from foreign oil, and prevention of nuclear terrorism," said Congressman Charlie Norwood (R-GA, 9). ###
09.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on legislation which passed the Senate Armed Services Committee establishing tribunals for suspected terrorists. Graham voted in support of the legislation which passed the Committee by a vote of 15-9. “First off, let me say that I have a great deal of respect for President Bush and the job he has done leading our nation in the War on Terror. My goal in the tribunal legislation is to ensure the policies we put in place can withstand judicial scrutiny, protect American troops in future conflicts, and live up to the values our nation has adhered to for generations. “A conviction against a terror suspect is no good if it is later overturned by the Supreme Court. We don’t need to resort to bizarre legal theories to convict the terrorists. Frankly, we’ve done a better job of keeping the terrorists out of court than their own lawyers with all the legal challenges which have been upheld by federal courts. “Instead of trying to reinvent the wheel, the Administration ought to rely, as much as possible, on what has been tried and true. I would like to put one of these terrorists on trial in my lifetime. On the Legislative Process: “The House of Representatives has moved legislation establishing military tribunals and it is important the Senate act as well. While the Senate Armed Services Committee has passed a version which does not have the full backing of the White House, I will continue to discuss our approach with them. At some point in the future, the House, Senate, and President will have to come to some agreement we can all accept to move the process forward. The Senate Legislation: “The Senate legislation passed today allows the military trials of terrorists to begin, ensures that American troops cannot be sued in federal court by terror suspects in our custody, and establishes a legal framework for continued prosecution of the War on Terror. It also allows the CIA program, supported by the President and me, to continue protecting America. “The CIA program is an important program and our legislation does nothing to stop or impede that program from continued operation. I disagree with any suggestion to the contrary. “I desperately want to hold terrorists accountable for the acts they have committed against the nation on and since 9/11. They need to be brought to justice. However we must ensure we do so in a manner using policies and procedures that can withstand judicial scrutiny. “One area of contention is the use of classified information provided to a terror suspect and what an acquittal in a tribunal would mean. “Generals and Admirals from the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps have shown us the way to address the issue of classified information using procedures already in military law. Under the Senate proposal, the government does not have to give classified information to the defense. The military judge can order summarized or redacted versions of the classified information to be used at trial. However, as the military lawyers have suggested the accused must be provided the evidence the jury uses to convict. Without such a provision, the trial would fail because of the inability to confront evidence. “There is one other point on which much confusion exists. “Even if a terrorist is acquitted by a military tribunal, that does not mean they will be released from military prison. They remain enemy combatants. The decision to release an enemy combatant is made by the Annual Review Board (ARB), which is already established and in operation at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. The Supreme Court and Geneva Conventions: “The Supreme Court, in a decision I found troubling, decided to apply Geneva Convention protections to the War on Terror. Their decision is binding, but they gave Congress and the Administration wide latitude on its implementation. The Convention has been strongly supported by our nation in every war since the 1940s. It is there to protect our troops and we do not need to withdraw from its terms and conditions to win the current and future wars. Conclusion: “While I agree with President Bush on the vast majority of the provisions in the legislation before the Congress establishing military tribunals, we do have some differences. The 10 percent we disagree on involves significant areas that could determine whether our work product is declared to be constitutional by the Supreme Court. “If these issues are not resolved in an appropriate manner, we could also place our troops serving abroad in unnecessary jeopardy for future wars. I stand ready, willing and able to bridge the handful of differences we have. I know our American troops, those who lost loved ones on 9/11 and in the global War on Terror, are counting on us to get it right this time.” ######
09.14.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) U.S. Senators Charles Schumer (D-NY) and Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today formally submitted their request to Senate leadership for a vote on the Schumer-Graham Free Trade Act. Last April, The Schumer-Graham legislation received 67 votes on a procedural vote and is scheduled for an up-or-down vote before September 30th. Schumer and Graham’s letter today formally requests floor time by the end of this month. “We’ve been very patient, but have seen little progress,” Senator Schumer said. “The Senate will be voting on our bill if China doesn’t make a significant move very soon. Time is running out. I hope that Hank returns with tangible results, but if the disconnect between China’s rhetoric and actions is any guide, we’ll have no choice but to call for a vote.” “Senator Schumer and I have been patient and flexible,” said Senator Graham. “We agreed to delay a vote on our legislation on three separate occasions. Most recently, in March we agreed to delay a vote for six additional months to give the Chinese additional time to revalue their currency. We have been determined and we have been reasonable. Now, the date of our promised vote is approaching and we are sorely disappointed with China’s pace of reform.” The Schumer-Graham Bill (S. 295) allows for a 180-day negotiation period between the United States and China on currency revaluation; if the negotiations are not successful, a temporary across the board tariff of 27.5% will be applied to all Chinese products entering the United States. If the President certifies to Congress within 180 days of enactment that China has made a good-faith effort to revalue its currency upward, he may delay the imposition of the tariffs for an additional 180 days. If at the end of that 180-day period the President determines that China has developed and started actual implementation of a plan to revalue its currency, the President may delay imposition of the tariffs for an additional 12 months. The text of the letter is below: September 14, 2006 The Honorable William H. Frist Senate Majority Leader 509 Hart Senate Office Building Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Harry Reid Senate Minority Leader 528 Hart Office Building Washington, DC 20510 Dear Majority Leader Frist and Minority Leader Reid: We are writing to you today to formally request specific time for floor debate and a vote on our China currency legislation, S. 295. The Senate committed to a vote under the unanimous consent agreement reached in April 2005, and the time has come for us to move forward on our bill. As you know, on April 6, 2005, we offered the text of S. 295 as an amendment to the State Department authorization bill. A motion was made to table our amendment, which failed by a 33-67 margin. Majorities of both parties, as well as majorities on both the Banking and Finance committees, voted against the tabling motion. At the time, we agreed via unanimous consent to delay the vote on S. 295 until the end of July 2005, provided that we receive two hours of debate and an up-or-down vote with no amendments. We also agreed not to offer our bill as an amendment to any other legislative vehicle. Since then, to show our willingness to be flexible and patient, we agreed to delay our vote on three separate occasions. Most recently, in March we agreed to delay a vote for six additional months to give the Chinese additional time to revalue their currency. In short, while we have been determined, we have also been reasonable. Now, the date in the agreement is approaching, and we are sorely disappointed with China’s pace of currency reform. In remarks preceding his trip to China, Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson stated that, “with [China’s] leadership comes responsibility.” China has clearly failed to live up to its international obligations. Since July 2005, when China allowed the yuan to appreciate by 2.1 percent and promised to allow market forces to work, the currency has only appreciated by an additional two percent. In this period, the trade deficit with China continued to accelerate. In August alone, our deficit with China reached $18.8 billion, 33 percent greater than at the same time last year. Despite China’s rhetoric that revaluing their currency will destabilize their economy, we have seen quite the opposite. China’s economy is currently growing at an 11 percent annual rate, and its inflation rate has only been 1.3 percent over the last year. Therefore, we respectfully request that you schedule floor time for debate and a vote on S. 295, as early during the week of September 25 as possible. In addition, given the importance and visibility of the issue, we also ask that you abide by your earlier assurance that the vote on S. 295 not be one of the last orders of business before Congress adjourns for the 2006 elections. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Charles E. Schumer Lindsey O. Graham
09.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Senate has approved $92 million for South Carolina related defense projects. Graham and DeMint secured the funding in the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill. The Senators voted for the bill, which passed 98-0. “South Carolina’s contributions to the War on Terror and the defense of our nation are unparalleled,” said Graham. “South Carolinians serve in uniform in great numbers, and our industries are on the cutting edge of technology, providing the armed forces with the best equipment made. I am proud to join with Senator DeMint to secure funding for these worthy projects and I applaud my colleagues for passing a responsible bill that will ensure America’s military remains the best trained and best equipped fighting force in the world.” "South Carolina continues to lead the nation in developing and manufacturing state of the art equipment to ensure our troops remain the best equipped force in the world," said Senator DeMint. "This bill will ensure our military has the tools necessary to secure America's homeland. I'm proud of the noble work by our men and women in uniform and of South Carolina's long history in supporting their missions." South Carolina related projects include: LOWCOUNTRY: $6 million for the purchase of Quadruple Specialty Containers produced in Charleston. $5 million for the development of the Joint Threat Warning System, an air communication surveillance system that provides direct warning to aircrafts operating over hostile territory, enhancing situational awareness and increasing aircrew survivability and the probability of mission success. Development is based in Charleston. $4 million for the development and integration of Electronic Warfare (EW)/Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) System which will provide the Marines’ ability to fight the war on terror. Development is based in Charleston. $3 million for Air Operations Combat Support (AOCS) to provide war-planners with the first automated tool to determine the available combat air assets. Development is based in Charleston. $2 million for The Masking Shunt. The Masking Shunt is a layer-2 network security appliance that the Critical Infrastructure Protection Center (CIPC) at SPAWAR as well as the Advanced Concepts and Technology Demonstration (ACTD) office in the Pentagon are interested in deploying in order to increase cyber security protection. The Masking Shunt hides Media Access Control (MAC) addresses of any pass through device. UPSTATE: $6 million to upgrade Combat Casualty Care Equipment, including personnel kits and on-board kits for tactical vehicles. The main production facility is located in Greenville. $6 million for Next Generation Manufacturing Technologies Initiative. This program will advance the use of fuel cell technology from the laboratory to commercial manufacturing in order to assure a reliable supply of electrical energy to warfighter forces in the field. $2 million to research and develop an Active Coating Technology on Roto-craft (ACTOR) that allows the Army to extend development of material coatings from ground vehicles to helicopters. This technology helps to adapt in real time to the surrounding situation and environment. The program will be based at Clemson University. $2 million for development of the Advanced Warfighter Sustainment Systems for the 21st Century (AWSS-21). AWSS-21 will provide better packaged and more nutritious food to our soldiers in the field. Research is conducted at Clemson University and in Gray Court. $2 million for Moldable Fabric Armor which will provide an extremely tough yarn designed to be woven into fabric. These facilities are located throughout the Upstate. MIDLANDS: $11.614 million for the purchase of M249 SAW machine guns for the Army or Marines. The M249 is produced in Columbia. $13.175 million for the purchase of M240 medium machine guns for the Army or Marines. The M240 is produced in Columbia. $3 million for Antiballistic Windshield Armor (AWA). This funding will increase the safety and protection of our troops in light tactical wheeled vehicles. This work will be done in Bamberg. $2.4 million for the Special Operations Forces Combat Assault Rifle (SCAR). The SCAR will be produced in Columbia. $2 million for the University of South Carolina for Nuclear, Biological and Chemical (NBC) Detection which will support the development of a system to protect U.S. forces from threats concealed in buildings, cargo containers, trucks or other vehicles. $1 million for Connect and Join. This funding will provide a unique communication tool that enables deployed service members to stay closely connected with their families back home. The service and technology will be carried out in Columbia. PIEDMONT: $6 million for the purchase of All Terrain Military Utility Vehicles (M-Gator) for the Army. $3 million to purchase portable tent lighting produced in Clover. $3 million for the development of high modulus carbon fibers in York. This will help supply domestic sources of carbon fiber for production of efficient manned and unmanned air and space vehicles in the military. Statewide $3.5 million for research and development of high temperature superconducting generators. Research is being conducted at the University of South Carolina and in Greenville. $3 million for further deployment of the South Carolina Army National Guard’s Vibration Management Enhancement Program, a maintenance diagnostic system, on Guard helicopters. $2.5 million for the development of an Advanced Electric Drive system for military vehicles. Development is done at facilities throughout South Carolina. The bill will now go to conference with the U.S. House of Representatives. ####
09.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Benedict College and Morris College will each receive a $600,000 grant to help address community development needs. The funds will be used to assist the schools in expanding their role and effectiveness in community development activities including neighborhood revitalization, housing development for low- and moderate-income persons, and economic development. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
09.11.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the five year anniversary of the 9/11 attacks on America. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to the families who lost loved ones on 9/11. “As we remember the tragic events of that terrible day, we should also keep in mind the families of the nearly 3,000 military members and civilians who have died fighting the global War on Terror. We also should be thankful for our men and women in military uniform and the law enforcement officials who continue to protect our nation. “In the last five years, many of the Al-Qaeda leaders who planned the 9/11 attacks have seen their world dramatically change. Many have been killed or captured by the brave men and women of the United States military. Those in our custody will be brought to justice by an American court system. And we will hunt down the remaining terrorists and bring them to justice no matter how long it takes. “Since 9/11 we have taken the fight to the terrorists. We are fighting them in Iraq and Afghanistan instead of at home. The terrorists understand what is on the line -- it is why they are so brutal and vicious. They know if a democracy can emerge from a dictatorship in Iraq and we bring freedom to Afghanistan, it will be a mighty blow to their efforts to spread evil throughout the Middle East and around the globe. “I urge all Americans to understand this war – unlike previous ones – has no capitals to capture, navies to sink, or peace treaties to be signed. This is a battle of ideology – good versus evil – that will be won by the side that exhibits the greatest resolve. Our will to win must be greater than the will of the terrorists.” #####
09.08.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on testimony before the House Armed Services Committee made by generals and admirals from the United States Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps. The military leaders were testifying about the structure and procedure of tribunals to try terror suspects. “The concerns expressed by the generals and admirals about how we should conduct the trials of terrorists are very serious. I hope Members of Congress will agree.” ##### Statements from Military Leaders before the House Armed Services Committee September 7, 2006 Brigadier General James C. Walker, U.S. Marine Corps, Staff Judge Advocate * “I am not aware of any situation in the world where there is a system of jurisprudence that is recognized by civilized people where an individual can be tried and convicted without seeing the evidence against him. And I don't think that the United States needs to become the first in that scenario.” * “I personally remain concerned about any process which would permit the introduction of evidence against an accused outside of his presence. I simply believe the right to see the evidence against you and to be present when evidence is presented are fundamental to a full and fair trial and are also part of those judicial guarantees which are recognized as indispensable by civilized people.” * “…..I concur with my colleagues that if we get to a point where the sole evidence against an accused is classified, he must be able to see that evidence. That's just essentially one of those elements of a full and fair trial.” * “We must maintain our nation's ability to deal with terrorists and with unlawful enemy combatants, but at the same time we must also provide those judicial guarantees which are recognized as indispensable by civilized people.” * “While we seek that balance, we also must remember the concept of reciprocity: What we do and how we treat these individuals can, in the future, have a direct impact on our service men and women overseas.” Major General Scott Black, United States Army, Judge Advocate General * “I can't imagine any military judge believing that an accused has had a full and fair hearing if all the government's evidence that was introduced was all classified and the accused was not able to see any of it.” * “The Hamdan decision has reinforced our need to ensure military commissions are reflective of American values such as due process and the rule of law.” * “Our task has been to balance the utility of the military commissions with these values that are foundational to our democratic society.” * “I am concerned, one, that the package does not contain a provision that would prohibit the admission of evidence outside of the presence of the accused when that evidence is the sole evidence admitted to establish a material fact, if you follow. If it's the only piece of evidence that's necessary to convict, then I remain concerned about excluding the accused.” Major General Charles Dunlap, United States Air Force, Deputy Judge Advocate General * “A process fully compliant with Common Article 3 will enhance our standing internationally and empower our allies to embrace the legal reasoning and architecture behind the prosecution of military commission cases. Doing so is plainly in our war fighting interest.” * “But my bottom line, my personal opinion, sir, is that we cannot have a process whereby the finder of fact -- not the judge deciding, but the finder of fact -- gets evidence that the accused never sees and never has the opportunity to defend against…” Rear Admiral Bruce MacDonald, United State Navy, Judge Advocate General * “…there are some issues, particularly the use of classified evidence, where I would stand by the approach to that taken by the Uniform Code of Military Justice.” * “With respect to coerced statements, it would be my position that I would recommend that the committee look at not allowing coerced statements; that statements that are obtained under torture are excluded under the current commission rules. However, statements obtained through coercion, if they meet a reliability and probative test, are admitted. * “I would recommend that the committee look to the Detainee Treatment Act and the cruel and inhuman and degrading treatment standard and apply that standard as well to statements that may or may not be coerced. And I would leave that determination to the military judge in charge of the commission to balance those competing interests.”
09.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced South Carolina will receive more than $17.4 million in federal funds to enhance capacity to respond to bioterrorism and other public health emergencies. The funds will be used to improve infectious disease surveillance and investigation, enhance the preparedness of hospitals and the health care system to deal with large numbers of casualties, expand public health laboratory and communications capacities and improve connectivity between hospitals, and city, local and state health departments to enhance disease reporting. The funds will also be used to exercise existing response plans, test capabilities and evaluate improvements. The funding is awarded via two separate but interrelated cooperative agreements. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is providing $10,852,835 to develop emergency-ready public health departments by upgrading, improving, and sustaining their preparedness and response capabilities for “all-hazards” public health emergencies, including terrorism and other naturally-occurring public health emergencies. HHS’ Health Resources and Services Administration is providing $6,632,258 to develop medical surge capacity and capability to deal with mass casualty events. This includes the expansion of hospital beds, development of isolation capacity, identifying additional health care personnel, establishing hospital-based pharmaceutical caches, and providing mental health services, trauma and burn care, communications and personal protective equipment. ####
09.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Lindsey Graham Interviewed on Fox News Channel Speakers: U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) Jon Scott, Fox News Channel SCOTT: The president drew cheers yesterday when he named some of the suspected terrorists who have been held at Guantanamo Bay -- transferred to Guantanamo Bay now to await trial. The president also announced a plan that calls, in part, for evidence to be withheld from defendants. Senator Lindsey Graham says he fears that would set a dangerous precedent the rest of the world would follow. He is among three Republican senators offering a revised proposal, one that guarantees that terrorist suspects get to see every bit of evidence gathered against them. Senator Graham joins us now. Senator, how big are your differences with the White House on this issue? GRAHAM: Really not that big. And there's a lot of confusion about this. There's two circumstances involving classified information. The defense can request classified information from the prosecution to prepare their case. I support the military lawyer's position here, the active duty lawyers, who say the government should not have to give to the defense classified information not relevant to the case and the judge can exclude any classified information the judge believes would harm national security. What they're talking about that's new and different, that I think is a bad idea, is for the government to give to the jury classified information about innocence or guilt, and the accused never know -- never see what the jury sees, and he would be convicted not knowing what the evidence against him or her was. That could come back to haunt us. That's not necessary. I've talked to the prosecutors at Guantanamo Bay. They don't need that. And, to me, that is a bridge too far. You say "no" to classified information to terrorists that would hurt national security, but if you're going to put somebody in jail, they need to confront the evidence against them. And that is what I stand for. That's what the military lawyers stand for. And that's the way we've been doing it for 200 years. SCOTT: But, for instance, you say if it's relevant to their case they should be allowed to see it. Let's say some undercover informant who is, you know -- is sort of becoming a traitor to his own organization, reveals some information. That would have to be revealed to these suspects, wouldn't it? GRAHAM: No, no, no, no. The military rules of evidence cover this very situation. A confidential informant does not have to be disclosed in the prosecution of the case if it would create serious risk or injury to the informant or it would compromise national security. The terrorists could ask for satellite positioning. The judge would review their request and would say national security interest overcome your need to know about satellites. We're not going to give the terrorists the information to harm this nation. The judge will decide what's relevant and what's not. That's the way we do it in our military legal system. On the other hand, if we create a legal system, where the accused goes to jail never knowing what the evidence against him was, what the jury looked at, then that would be a departure that's unnecessary, that would hurt our guys if they are tried in a foreign land. That's what the military lawyers say; it makes sense to me. SCOTT: The critics of the administration have said that it has used torture in obtaining information from some of these people. Are you concerned that some of these people have been tortured? GRAHAM: No. I understand very well what the Department of Defense has come out with in terms of the Army Field Manual. The Army Field Manual is a model for the world. The interrogation techniques that we have at Gitmo, I think, are the way to go. The way Gitmo is being run as a jail is probably the best-run jail in the world. The American government doesn't torture people. Tortured evidence is unreliable. We do have aggressive interrogation techniques that fit within the rule of law. So I look forward to working with the administration to authorize a military commission that can bring these guys to trial. We've got some of the nastiest people in the world down there for four years. None of them have been going to trial. The Supreme Court struck down the military commissions. I want to get them reauthorized, put these guys in trial. It want interrogation techniques that are effective that will protect us, that live within our value system, and we can do that working together, and we should have done it two years ago. SCOTT: All right. Senator Lindsey Graham, thank you. GRAHAM: Thank you.
09.06.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on release of the new Army Field Manual and President Bush’s proposal for military tribunals. On Army Field Manual: “I’m extremely pleased with the Army Field Manual. In my opinion it is a model for the international community when it comes to detaining and interrogating unlawful enemy combatants. It’s clear the Bush Administration listened to and responded to the input from the Congress, military officials and legal scholars. The revised Army Field Manual exceeded my expectations. I appreciate and applaud the Administration for their work on this issue.” On Military Tribunals: “The next challenge we face is the establishment of military commissions to try terror suspects. We need to ensure the commissions can withstand judicial scrutiny, hold terrorists accountable for their actions, and make the American people proud of our justice system. “It is imperative Congress and the President work together to authorize military commissions and allow trials to move forward. I hope we can complete this by the end of September as it is in our national interest to conduct these trials without further delay. It is also important the military commissions comply with the Supreme Court’s Hamdan decision and be modeled, where applicable, after the military court martial system. There will need to be some modifications made as the needs of the commission are different from a court martial. “I believe what differences we may have between the current Bush Administration proposal and the Senate Armed Services Committee draft proposal can be overcome and that agreement will soon be reached. I look forward to being part of that process and am pleased with the working relationship I have formed with the Administration on this issue. “I do not think we can afford to again cut legal corners that will result in federal court rejection of our work product. I’m hopeful that spirit will prevail among all the parties. If we approach commissions with the same attitude we had on the Army Field Manual, we will have a successful outcome. “One area of contention we must address is how classified information can be used in a military commission. “I strongly support the government’s ability to withhold classified information vital to our national security from accused terrorists. The military justice system already has legal procedures in place dealing with the admissibility of classified information. Military lawyers have experience in protecting classified information and our national security. We can and should use their advice and experience on how to deal with classified information in creating the commission system. The Senate proposal contains important national security safeguards to protect classified information and relies on the advice and counsel of JAGs from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines. “I believe it would be a mistake to allow the jury to see classified evidence the accused never sees. After many consultations with military legal officers (JAGs) in the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marines, I do not believe it is necessary to have a trial where the accused cannot see the evidence against them. I fear that creating such a procedure would not be well-received by the courts. The military legal officers (JAGs) serving in uniform have also expressed concern that this could establish a precedent that could be used against our own troops. I share this concern.” #####
09.06.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Sandhills Medical Foundation in Jefferson will receive a $400,000 Ryan White CARE Act grant to implement an HIV/AIDS oral health initiative. The funds will be used to provide oral health care to persons living with HIV or AIDS in underserved areas where oral health services are inadequate or do not exist. Sandhills Medical Foundation is one of fifteen sites selected nationwide to implement a demonstration project using novel approaches to provide care. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
09.05.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the South Carolina Office of Rural Health will receive a $98,368 grant to provide technical assistance to rural medical facilities. All qualified EMS and rural medical facilities will be eligible to apply for assistance, but special focus will be given to the 104 Rural Health Clinics located in medically underserved communities. Technical assistance workshops will focus on: billing, coding, and practice management; coding training and certification for rural physician and EMS personnel; human resources training; and loans to rural health care providers for renovation, expansion, acquisition, or equipment purchase. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
09.05.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Georgetown County United Way will receive a $2,650,870 grant to support early childhood reading. The funds will be used by United Way of Georgetown County along with coalition partners First Steps of Georgetown and Williamsburg Counties, Little Smurfs Child Care Center, and the Georgetown and Williamsburg School Districts to implement the Building Literacy Opportunities for Coastal Kindergartens (BLOCK) program. BLOCK helps provide enhanced learning opportunities for students in rural, poverty-stricken areas of coastal South Carolina. The program seeks to improve students’ oral language, alphabet knowledge, phonological awareness, and print awareness skills. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) will receive two grants for nearly $1 million to improve future capacity to conduct DNA tests and to help reduce the backlog of DNA analysis cases. SLED will receive a $666,200 grant to improve DNA-testing infrastructure and analysis capacity at government-owned labs to prevent future DNA backlogs. In addition, SLED will receive a $332,766 grant to analyze backlogged forensic DNA casework in government-owned labs and private vendors. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced community health centers in Little River and Ridgeland will receive Community Health Center grants totaling more than $370,000. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grants will allow both centers to expand services to their surrounding communities. Little River Little River Medical Center will receive a $270,907 grant. Ridgeland Beaufort-Jasper Comprehensive Health Services will receive a $102,248 grant. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
08.30.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced nearly $300,000 in Drug-Free Community (DFC) Grants for Columbia, Lancaster, and Sumter. The DFC Program provides grants to community organizations that serve as catalysts for citizen participation in local drug prevention efforts. Columbia Richland One Community Coalition will receive a $99,997 grant. Lancaster Lancaster County Prevention Coalition will receive a $98,021 grant. Sumter Sumter Citizens Coalition will receive a $99,985 grant. The grants are awarded by the Office of National Drug Control Policy. ####
08.30.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $500,000 for emergency response initiatives in Beaufort and Kershaw schools. Beaufort County School District will receive a $294,771 grant and Kershaw County School District will receive $211,460. Emergency Response and Crisis Management Grants provide funds to local education agencies to improve and strengthen emergency response plans in all four areas of crisis response: prevention/mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced Orangeburg County will receive a $54,409 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant. The funds will be used to purchase security cameras to monitor the Orangeburg County Courthouse. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the South Carolina Department of Public Safety will receive a $616,000 Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention grant to improve our state’s juvenile justice system. The funds may be used for a variety of programs and activities including: planning and administration, compliance monitoring, juvenile justice issues for American Indian tribes, substance abuse prevention, crime prevention, gang involvement prevention, identification of at risk youth, treatment programs, and aftercare. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.10.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $635,000 in grants to fire departments in Cordova, Gaffney, Goose Creek, Hampton, Vance, and Williamston. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Cordova Cordova Fire Department will receive $106,593. Gaffney Gaffney Fire Department will receive $160,466. Goose Creek Goose Creek Rural Fire Department will receive $93,216. Hampton Hampton Station 50 will receive $159,999. Vance Vance Volunteer Fire Department will receive $91,110. Williamston Williamston Fire Department will receive $26,410. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.10.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the foiled terror plot to blow up flights from Great Britain to the United States. “To win the War on Terror, our will as a nation must be greater than the will of the terrorists. This is another reminder our enemy remains out there -- plotting and scheming -- to do harm to us and other freedom-loving people around the world. "I want to congratulate the intelligence and law enforcement agencies in Great Britain and the United States for working to stop this terror plot. Lives were saved because of their work. “Our enemies’ desire to harm us has not changed. The evil they represent needs to be confronted. “We need to keep the terrorists on the run and win the War on Terror being fought in Iraq. The terrorists understand what is on the line -- it is why they are so brutal and vicious. They know if a democracy can emerge from a dictatorship, it will be a mighty blow to their efforts to spread evil throughout the Middle East and around the globe. “As a nation, we should learn two lessons from today's events. Stopping this plot shows the need for us to have good intelligence, well-trained law enforcement officers and agencies, and valuable allies like Britain. Second, the enemy has not gone away. While they may have changed methods and forms, they still have the same desire to kill Americans and other freedom-loving people. They must be defeated.” ####
08.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $8.1 million in housing grants in Aiken, Charleston, Columbia, Florence, Lexington, and Myrtle Beach. Aiken The City of Aiken will receive a $220,161 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). Charleston Charleston County will receive a $2,080,165 CDBG award, $974,131 for the HOME Investment Partnership Program (HOME), an $88,890 Emergency Shelter Grant (ESG), and $18,392 for the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI). Columbia The City of Columbia will receive a $1,350,639 CDBG award, $1,041,000 for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program, and $826,501 for the HOME Program. Florence The City of Florence will receive a $347,365 CDBG award. Lexington Lexington County will receive a $1,014,447 CDBG award. Myrtle Beach Myrtle Beach will receive a $206,338 CDBG award. The Community Development Block Grant Program develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. The Emergency Shelter Grant program improves the quality and number of emergency homeless shelters. The American Dream Down Payment Initiative promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to lower-income and minority households. The Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS program provides housing assistance and related support services to state and local governments. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
08.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Robert Sumwalt of Columbia has been confirmed by the Senate to serve on the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB). On Graham’s recommendation, President Bush nominated Sumwalt in June, 2006. He was confirmed unanimously by the Senate last night. “Robert Sumwalt has a distinguished career in the field of aviation safety,” said Graham. “He is uniquely qualified for this position. I am pleased President Bush nominated him, and I was proud to support his nomination. Robert represents the best of South Carolina and will serve his nation with distinction.” Sumwalt worked for 24 years as a pilot with US Airways, and currently manages the aviation department at SCANA Corporation in South Carolina. Sumwalt has received extensive education and training in aviation safety and aircraft accident investigation at the University of Southern California. A co-founder of the Air Line Pilots Association Critical Incident Response Program, he also served as a member of the NTSB’s human performance group in the USAir 427 accident investigation. In 2003, Sumwalt joined the faculty at Southern Cal’s Aviation Safety and Security Program. In addition, he frequently conducts aviation safety, crew resource management, and human factors seminars. He is also a speaker at numerous domestic and international aviation safety conferences. From 1991 to 1999, Sumwalt worked as a research consultant to the National Aeronautic and Space Administration (NASA) Aviation Safety Reporting System. He has also authored several books on aviation safety. Sumwalt will serve the remainder of the existing term which expires at the end of this year, and a subsequent term which ends December 31, 2011. The NTSB is an independent Federal agency charged by Congress with investigating every civil aviation accident in the United States and significant accidents in the other modes of transportation -- railroad, highway, marine and pipeline -- and issuing safety recommendations aimed at preventing future accidents. ####
08.03.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced an amendment that will prevent American servicemen and women from being charged and tried in the Iraqi criminal justice system. The provision, offered as an amendment to the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Appropriations Bill, passed 97-0. Graham sponsored the amendment along with Senator Barbara Boxer (D-California). Graham noted that while the vast majority of U.S. troops are serving honorably and without incident, some Iraqi officials have called for the right to charge and prosecute Americans for alleged crimes against Iraqis. This provision clearly rejects that line of thought and places disciplinary responsibility solely on the American military. Graham made the following statement. “The last thing our troops in Iraq need to worry about is being prosecuted by an Iraqi court under a system of justice that is foreign to American values. This amendment will ensure that no American military personnel serving in Iraq could be prosecuted by Iraqi courts or charged by Iraqi officials. “We have had troops stationed throughout the globe for decades and it is common practice for the American military to retain jurisdiction over any alleged crime committed by American servicemen overseas. The military takes seriously its obligation to discipline its force and to hold American troops accountable when they engage in criminal misconduct abroad. We have a great track record in vigorously prosecuting crimes against foreign nationals by military personnel and an equally good track record of providing a full and fair trial to our men and women in uniform. “I can assure the Iraqi people that any misconduct engaged in by American military personnel will be seriously pursued and vigorously prosecuted. I can assure the American people that any serviceman or woman charged with a crime will get a full and fair trial. “It is important for the United States Senate, and Congress as a whole, to clearly state that no American serviceman or woman serving in Iraq will ever be subject to the Iraqi criminal justice system. I hope this will relieve the concerns of the family members of those serving in Iraq.” ####
08.02.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of an amendment offered by U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) which provides $1.8 billion in funding for the construction of at least 370 miles of triple-layered fencing and 461 miles of vehicle barriers at strategic locations along the southwest border. The amendment was attached to the Senate Defense Appropriation bill which authorizes funding for the Department of Defense. “The first issue to address in immigration reform is border security,” said Graham. “Without strong physical border security no immigration reform will be successful in stopping the flood of illegal crossings. The porous nature of our border doesn’t just pose immigration problems, but national security ones as well. Additional border fencing is a small price to pay when it comes to protecting our national security and relieving the pressure we face from illegal immigration.” Graham noted that border fencing and better physical security of our borders coupled with establishing a guestworker program and a worker verification system are the key components in passing comprehensive immigration reform. Graham has continued to meet with senators and members of the House of Representatives in an effort to find common-ground on immigration reform. He has also expressed interest in immigration reform proposals based on some of the principles outlined in legislation proposed by U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Texas) and Representative Mike Pence (R-Indiana). “We need to comprehensively address immigration reform and I think we ought to do it before the November elections,” said Graham. “With Presidential leadership and the ongoing talks between members of the House and Senate, I’m optimistic we can get it done. The American people expect us to get this done and we shouldn’t let them down.” #####
08.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement on legislation to expand oil and gas drilling in the Gulf of Mexico. Graham is a supporter of the legislation. He said: “The legislation strikes a good balanced between needed energy exploration and sound environmental policy. Any drilling that takes place will be over 100 miles off the Gulf Coast of Florida and can be accomplished without disturbing the coastal areas. The amount of energy that could be extracted is significant and would help make our nation less dependent on foreign sources of oil. “There’s no doubt that as a nation we need to become more energy independent. This is another step forward and I hope the House of Representatives will agree to the Senate’s proposal.” #####
07.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the town of Branchville will receive a $1.1 million grant and a $600,000 loan for water system improvements. The funds will be used to install water distribution lines from Branchville on Highway 21 to the Cattle Creek Road area of Orangeburg County. The project includes approximately 81,500 feet of water line, 54 hydrants, and a 250,000-gallon elevated storage tank. There is currently no public water available in the project area. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
07.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $3.1 million in TRIO Talent Search Program grants for South Carolina colleges and universities. The Talent Search Program helps individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds prepare for higher education by providing academic, career, and financial counseling. The program also encourages high school dropouts to re-enroll and complete their education. Grant recipients include: Claflin University- $220,000 Horry-Georgetown Technical College- $336,117 Midlands Technical College- $345,561 South Carolina State University- $220,000 Technical College of the Lowcountry- $330,804 Tri-County Technical College- $380,134 Trident Technical College- $382,216 University of South Carolina- $329,914 Williamsburg Technical College- $278,634 York Technical College- $301,656 The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
07.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) yesterday hosted a meeting with Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman, Office of Management and Budget Director Rob Portman, Senators Jim DeMint, Saxby Chambliss, Johnny Isakson and Representatives Gresham Barrett, Joe Wilson, and Charlie Norwood. The group gathered to discuss Savannah River Site issues. They made the following statements following the meeting. “Future budget certainty for the Site is a great concern for those in the region,” said Graham. “Every year we are confronted with major budget cuts and find ourselves fighting for level funding. I felt it was important to bring the key players in the room to discuss long-term funding strategies for cleanup and future missions. We had a very productive meeting and I appreciate Secretary Bodman and Director Portman’s work in helping move the MOX program and cleanup efforts forward. We discussed various technical, regulatory, and funding issues affecting current and future operations of the Site. We all share the same goal of moving forward with the MOX program and continuing our cleanup efforts in the most efficient, safe, technically sound, and cost-effective manner possible. I think today’s meeting was a positive development and will help us achieve our common goals in the future.” “I believe our message was well received by Secretary Bodman and Director Portman,” said Chambliss. “They both understand the national importance of the Savannah River Site. The meeting provided us an opportunity to present the case for a stable, robust funding stream for the Savannah River Site. I was pleased to hear of the Administration’s strong support for moving forward with the MOX program and I look forward to working with my colleagues to ensure this critical program is funded.” “Secretary Bodman has clearly focused much of his time on MOX and the Site’s cleanup, and I’m encouraged he says the Site is one of his highest priorities,” said DeMint. “Director Portman’s experience on these issues and willingness to work with the state delegations makes me optimistic we can put the Site on a stable and predictable path.” “I was pleased to join with my colleagues from Georgia and South Carolina in presenting a unified message on the Savannah River Site cleanup,” said Isakson. “We had a very productive meeting and reiterated the importance of the MOX program and the need to continue our cleanup efforts.” "I appreciate Senator Graham coordinating this meeting and bringing all parties to the table,” said Wilson. “The future of the Savannah River Site is of vital importance to the people of the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. While we continue to face budgetary and logistical issues, we remain focused on moving forward with the MOX program and expediting waste cleanup. Secretary Bodman and Director Portman are in full cooperation, and I am confident this meeting was a step in the right direction." "It was necessary to bring everyone together and talk about long-term strategies for the site, and I appreciate Senator Graham taking the lead and making that happen," said Barrett. "I feel good about the direction we are headed. We are all on the same page as it relates to moving MOX forward and ensuring the clean-up efforts continue in a way that is both safe and cost-effective. There is no doubt that the SRS has a lot to offer South Carolina and the country. Today's meeting was a great step in making sure we move forward in a smart manner." #####
07.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the parental notification law which passed the U.S. Senate late yesterday. The legislation would make it a federal crime to take a pregnant minor across state lines to obtain an abortion and avoid parental consent or notification requirements. Graham voted in support of the legislation which passed the Senate 65-34 and will now go to conference with the House of Representatives. President Bush urged the House and Senate to work out the differences and send him a bill for his signature. Graham said: “Parents should be involved in decisions regarding the health of their children, particularly a major issue such as abortion. In some cases, non-parents will assist a minor in leaving their home state to obtain an abortion in another state. The aim is to avoid the home state’s parental notification laws. “The legislation strengthens the role of parents and makes it tougher to avoid state laws relating to parental notification. It also reaffirms that parents are the primary responsible party for their underage children. “I was pleased with the strong Senate vote and hope we can put a bill on the President’s desk for his signature in the coming weeks.” #####
07.25.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the comprehensive immigration reform plan introduced by U.S. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) and Representative Mike Pence (R-IN). According to a preview story in today’s Washington Post, the plan allows most of the 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States a chance to work here legally, but only after the government certifies the U.S. borders have been sufficiently secured. Illegal immigrants would “self-deport” to their home countries within two years of the bill’s enactment and apply for a new kind of visa allowing them to quickly return to the United States and legally work. After 17 years they could apply for citizenship while remaining in the United States. He made the following statement: “I am very pleased Senator Hutchison and Representative Pence have put a comprehensive solution to our nation’s immigration problems on the table. If we will engage in problem solving, instead of political blame, we can make tremendous progress on this issue. “I consider the Hutchison-Pence proposal to be another step in the right direction. I look forward to reviewing the details of their plan and discussing with them how we can move this very important issue forward. “With continued presidential leadership, I believe the odds are in favor of Congress passing a comprehensive solution which secures our borders, establishes workable employer enforcement mechanisms, and institutes a procedure to deal with the estimated 11 million undocumented workers in the United States.” #####
07.25.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the South Carolina Department of Education will receive a $504,898 Partnerships in Character Education Grant. Funds will be used to design and implement character education programs that teach character elements such as caring, civic virtue, citizenship, justice, fairness, respect, responsibility, trustworthiness, and charity. In addition, programs seek to improve student attendance and academic performance, parental involvement, teacher development, and community involvement. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
07.25.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Lancaster County School District will receive a $459,423 Partnerships in Character Education Grant. Funds will be used to design and implement character education programs that teach character elements such as caring, civic virtue, citizenship, justice, fairness, respect, responsibility, trustworthiness, and charity. In addition, programs seek to improve student attendance and academic performance, parental involvement, teacher development, and community involvement. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
07.21.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced health care organizations in Charleston, Columbia, and Greenville will receive nearly $1.7 million to provide primary health care for individuals diagnosed with HIV. Charleston Roper St. Francis Foundation will receive a $432,802 grant. Columbia Richland Community Health Care Association will receive a $771,720 grant. Greenville New Horizon Family Health Services will receive a $487,758 grant. The Ryan White Title III: Early Intervention Services grants can be used to provide patients: Risk-reduction counseling on prevention, antibody testing, medical evaluation, and clinical care; Antiretroviral therapies; protection against opportunistic infections; and ongoing medical, oral health, nutritional, psychological, and other services for HIV-infected clients; Case management to ensure access to services and continuity of care for HIV-infected clients; Attention to other health problems that occur frequently with HIV infection, including tuberculosis and substance abuse. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
07.21.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $8.3 million in housing grants in Anderson, Beaufort, Charleston, Greenville, and Spartanburg. Anderson The City of Anderson will receive a $771,427 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). Beaufort Beaufort County will receive a $750,000 for the HOME Investment Partnership Program (HOME), and $12,156 for the American Dream Downpayment Initiative (ADDI). Charleston The City of Charleston will receive a $1,096,575 CDBG award, $832,065 for the HOME Program, and $397,000 for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) Program. Greenville The City of Greenville will receive a $1,123,708 CDBG award, and $379,544 for the HOME Program. Spartanburg The City of Spartanburg will receive a $789,283 CDBG award, and $328,868 for the HOME Program. Spartanburg County will receive a $1,329,187 CDBG award, $530,546 for the HOME Program, and $9,929 for the ADDI. The Community Development Block Grant Program develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. The American Dream Down Payment Initiative promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to lower-income and minority households. The Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS program provides housing assistance and related support services to state and local governments The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
07.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today took to the floor of the U.S. Senate in support of reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. “South Carolina has made great strides forward in terms of African-American voting participation and representation at all levels of state and local government,” said Graham. “I’m proud of the progress that has been made in years past and those who made it happen. During some very turbulent times, they shed blood, sweat and tears to bring about major change in our nation. I owe them a debt of gratitude, like others in my generation.” Graham noted that he was a child of the south and grew up in segregated schools for part of his life. But the civil rights movement enriched the country by allowing people to interact in ways that would have been impossible if segregation had continued. “South Carolina has come a long way in the past few decades and we have a lot to be proud of,” said Graham. “But just like every other part of the country, we still have a ways to go. I hope twenty-five years from now it can be said that there will be no need for a Voting Rights Act because things have continued to change for the better. If we continue making progress like we have in the past twenty-five years, we can make it happen.” #####
07.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Dillon School District Two will receive a $212,417 grant to promote a new literacy program. The funds will be used to initiate the Literacy for a Lifetime: Creating Literacy Communities program. The program will help to improve literacy and academic achievement by creating student book clubs in grades K-12, hosting visiting authors at schools, updating the library collections, hosting family literacy nights, and providing professional development for library media specialists and teachers. In addition, the program will provide instruction for teen mothers emphasizing the importance of reading to their children. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
07.18.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the Senate’s stem cell research vote. “I completely understand and appreciate the seriousness of the debate and how people of good will and motives may disagree on the proper course for our nation to chart. “After careful consideration, I come out on the side of not using taxpayer dollars to condone the destruction of viable embryos for research purposes. I feel very uncomfortable using taxpayer dollars to fund research on viable embryos when there are other alternatives available. “I remain concerned we are heading down a slippery slope, in terms of medical ethics, that may have no end. The argument that some of the embryos will be discarded if not used for research does not address the fundamental question of whether the federal government should condone such practices with taxpayer funding. “At this moment in time of scientific development and as the moral debate continues to move forward, I believe the answer should be a no vote on sanctioning the destruction of viable embryos. All of us, no matter our differences were once viable embryos. “Also, if the President carries through on his veto threat, I will vote to sustain.” #####
07.18.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON– U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham, Jim DeMint, and U.S. Representative Henry Brown today announced the State of South Carolina will receive a $3,655,499 Pre-disaster Mitigation Grant to help the City of Charleston with a seismic and wind retrofit of the historic Dock Street Theatre. The grant represents a federal share of the total project cost of $4,949,940. The remainder will come from non-federal sources. “I am pleased that the City of Charleston is taking proactive steps to help protect one of the state and nation’s most historic structures,” said Graham. “The preventative repairs are designed to help protect the building in the event of a natural disaster.” “The historic Dock Street Theatre has been a part of Charleston history for hundreds of years,” said Senator DeMint, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Disaster Prevention and Prediction Subcommittee. “I’m pleased this important part of South Carolina’s culture will be preserved for generations to come.” "The Dock Street Theater is a jewel in a city that is so richly blessed with historically significant architectural treasures,” said Brown. “I am pleased that FEMA recognizes the importance of preserving this building, the first designed solely for theatrical performances in America. This grant will help ensure that future generations will have the opportunity to appreciate the rich cultural history enjoyed by Charleston's residents and visitors since the 1700s." The funds will be used for structurally strengthening the walls and roof, compaction grouting, and carbon fiber strengthening of the un-reinforced masonry structure, and installing window shutters. The project is a collaboration with the State of South Carolina’s Department of Archives and History and is in keeping with the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency. ####
07.18.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina State University will receive a $354,908 grant to support its GEAR UP program. GEAR UP is a national grant program to support early college preparation and awareness activities for low-income students. The program assists students in the Allendale County and Orangeburg School District 3 in meeting South Carolina State Performance Standards, complete a college preparatory course of study, train teachers, increase parental and community involvement, and increase the awareness of financial aid resources. The program begins to work with students in the 7th grade and continues through high school graduation. Services provided include tutoring, mentoring, counseling, workshops, field trips, and college visitations. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
07.17.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of William J. Haynes to the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals. “I understand several Senators on the Judiciary Committee, including the Chairman, have submitted additional questions to Mr. Haynes. It is my belief these questions should be answered in a relatively quick manner by Mr. Haynes. “After all relevant information is received and reviewed, I stand ready to vote.”
07.14.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) today announced the Senate has approved a resolution recognizing the week of September 10, 2006 as “National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week.” The resolution, introduced by Graham and Chambliss, was passed unanimously and calls on Americans to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs to demonstrate support for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU). The Senators made the following statement: “Historically Black Colleges and Universities provide quality educational experiences and play a vital role in an increasingly complex and highly technological society. HBCUs have a rich heritage and have played a prominent role in the history of the United States. Further, they have allowed many disadvantaged students to attain their full potential through higher education. We are pleased the Senate has come together in a bipartisan fashion to recognize the contributions and accomplishments of these institutions.” South Carolina is home to 8 Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Georgia is home to 10. A complete list can be found at http://www.ed.gov/about/inits/list/whhbcu/edlite-list.html ####
07.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Horry County School District will receive a $961,579 Safe Schools/Healthy Students grant. The Safe Schools/Healthy Students Initiative is a national grant program that provides federal funds to create safe and drug-free schools, develop social skills, and promote healthy childhood development. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
06.29.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Jon Kyl (R-AZ) today issued the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling on the Hamdan case: “We are disappointed with the Supreme Court’s decision. However, we believe the problems cited by the Court can and should be fixed. "It is inappropriate to try terrorists in civilian courts. It threatens our national security and places the safety of jurors in danger. For those reasons and others, we believe terrorists should be tried before military commissions. "In his opinion, Justice Breyer set forth the path to a solution of this problem. He wrote, ‘Nothing prevents the president from returning to Congress to seek the authority he believes necessary.’ "We intend to pursue legislation in the Senate granting the Executive Branch the authority to ensure that terrorists can be tried by competent military commissions. Working together, Congress and the administration can draft a fair, suitable, and constitutionally permissible tribunal statute." # # #
06.27.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he looks forward to voting in support of the flag protection amendment today. The amendment restores the authority of Congress to pass a flag desecration law if it chooses. The amendment is very close to garnering the 67 votes necessary for a constitutional amendment to pass the Senate. Graham noted the amendment is necessary because of a 1989 Supreme Court 5-4 ruling that said flag burning was politically expressive conduct and permitted under the First Amendment. “I enthusiastically support the constitutional amendment allowing elected officials to protect the American flag. Asking Americans to respect the flag of our nation is not an undue hardship. It also does not impede the rights of any Americans to strongly express their displeasure on any issue. “Unfortunately, because of a Supreme Court decision, a constitutional amendment is the only mechanism to change the result. If passed by two-thirds of the Congress, I believe this amendment will be ratified by the states. “I support the right of free speech however the physical desecration of our flag is not free speech. It’s an unnecessary destruction of one of our nation’s most important symbols. The constitutional amendment will restore the right of the legislature to protect the flag and passage of this amendment is long overdue.” ######
06.27.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – The United State Senate unanimously approved S. 2650 Tuesday a bill to designate the Federal courthouse to be constructed in Greenville, South Carolina, as the “Carroll A. Campbell, Jr. Federal Courthouse.” “I truly appreciate and admire all Carroll Campbell has done for our state and naming the new Greenville courthouse after him is a fitting tribute,” said U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). “Governor Campbell reshaped South Carolina politics and was a trailblazer on many fronts. He was the first Governor to make an aggressive, successful effort to recruit large numbers of international businesses to our state and created a model we still follow today. He also helped reform and improve the way state government works for our citizens. His lifetime of work will continue to pay dividends to our state for years to come.” “I’m proud the Senate paid tribute to a man whose distinguished service as both governor and congressman helped usher in a new era of purpose and prosperity for the Palmetto State. Carroll and Iris were good friends and mentors to Debbie and me when I entered Congress. He never passed my office without stopping in to say hello and offer a well-timed word of advice. Carroll was an optimist and a visionary, and the building that will bear his name will not only serve as a gateway to Greenville but to all that is possible in South Carolina” said Senator Jim DeMint. U.S. Rep. Bob Inglis introduced a companion bill, H.R.5546, in the House on June 7, 2006. The legislation was cosponsored by all members of the South Carolina delegation. ###
06.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Senate has approved an amendment that will revamp the retirement system and further improve access to the military healthcare system, TRICARE, for Reservists and Guardsmen. The amendment was offered by Graham, along with Senators Saxby Chambliss (R-Georgia) and Hillary Clinton (D-New York), to the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Authorization Bill. The bill passed 96-0. “Guardsmen and Reservists are citizen-soldiers,” said Graham. “Increasingly they are being called up, taken away from their work and families, and being sent to far-away lands for long tours of duty. We need to ensure the benefits they are receiving are equal to the sacrifice they are making to protect our country and interests around the world.” Graham has taken the lead role in championing expanded TRICARE access in the Senate. This latest amendment builds on the success Graham had last year when Congress overhauled the TRICARE system, greatly expanding access for members of the Selected Reserve. Under the expansion passed last year, all members of the Selected Reserve are eligible to enroll in the military health care program for a monthly premium based on their service and employment status. The amendment passed by the Senate last week improves this system by reducing the co-payment for those who have not been deployed, are eligible for other private insurance, but want continuous access to TRICARE. It reduces the cost share for the Reservist from 85% to 75% with the government paying the remainder. Employees of small businesses would become eligible for a 50/50 cost share under Tier 2. In addition, to provide further savings to Reservists, Senator Graham introduced a separate bill allowing members to pay their TRICARE premiums on a pre-tax basis like all other federal employees. “I will continue to work to improve benefits available to members of the Guard and Reserve,” said Graham. “The nation will continue to need their services in fighting the War on Terror.” Another significant provision included in the amendment would lower the retirement age for members of the United States National Guard and Reserve based on the number of days the member is called to active duty. The retirement age requirement would be reduced by 3 months for every 90 days of continuous active service a Reservist performs in support of a contingency operation or in a war zone. The minimum age to collect retirement pay is set at 50. This provision is retroactive to September 2001. “Reservists and Guardsmen have been deployed at historic rates,” said Graham. “Rewarding them by allowing them to retire earlier than the current system allows is a tremendous incentive for retention. The incentive for early retirement combined with more affordable health care will dramatically improve the quality of life for our Reserve community and their families. I am proud these two provisions have received unanimous, bipartisan support.” Graham noted that the Senate also approved an amendment he authored to give military commanders a more fair and efficient means of discipline on the battlefield. The provision clarifies the Uniform Code of Military Justice to place civilian contractors accompanying the Armed Forces in the field under court-martial jurisdiction during contingency operations as well as in times of declared war. The Defense Authorization Bill approves more than $517 billion in budget authority for national security and defense programs at the U.S. Departments of Defense and Energy. The bill includes more than $50 billion in funding for ongoing operations in the War on Terror. The bill will now go to conference with the House of Representatives. #### TRICARE System Under Current Law Tier 1: Members of the Selected Reserve who are called to active duty qualify for TRICARE Reserve Select (TRS). Under this program a Reservist who agrees to stay in the Service accumulates one year of TRS coverage for every 90 days of active duty service. Monthly premiums during the years of accumulated eligibility are only 28 percent of the program cost. The government picks up the remaining 72 percent. As has always been the case, coverage is free of charge while on active duty. The system permits accumulation of earned periods of coverage for frequently deployed personnel. In addition, Reservist’s family members receive 6 months of transitional coverage following the death of the Reserve member, if the member dies while in an inactive status. Tier 2: Members of the Selected Reserve who are not called to active duty, and who otherwise do not qualify for health insurance due to unemployment or lack of employer-provided coverage, are eligible to enroll in TRICARE for a 50 percent cost-sharing premium. The government will pay the remaining 50 percent. Tier 3: Members of the Selected Reserve who do not fit into either of the above categories (have not been deployed and have access to other private health insurance) but would like to participate continuously in TRICARE are eligible to do so for an 85 percent cost share. Employers are allowed and encouraged to contribute to the reservist’s share. The government contributes 15 percent of the cost.
06.22.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted against two Democratic attempts to establish a timetable for withdrawing troops from Iraq. The provisions, introduced as amendments to the Fiscal Year 2007 Defense Authorization Bill, both failed. After the votes, Graham made the following statement: “If the United States Senate sets a timetable for withdrawal, it will be viewed as a rebuke of the Iraqi government and a vote of no-confidence in the Iraqi people. The Iraqis are coming together and creating a new democracy out of the ashes of a dictatorship. For us to say we are going to leave at a date certain will weaken the Iraqi government and empower the terrorists. “There will be a timetable for us to leave, but it will be collaboration between our two nations and our coalition partners. It will be a timetable to help empower the Iraqi government and people while diminishing the terrorists. I hope the American people and Congress will be patient. “I’m proud of the job the American military has done in Iraq. We should all be very grateful for their service to our nation. I’m also proud of the Iraqi people and their government. With the death of Zarqawi and the creation of an Iraqi National Government, we’re beginning to make progress against the terrorists. “When we have asked something of the Iraqis they have delivered and done so under some of the most difficult of circumstances. It’s tough to run for office in America, but its nothing compared to what elected officials in Iraq have to go through. Their leaders are targeted by the insurgents and terrorists who come after them and their families. “My hat goes off to the Iraqis who have joined the police force, military, and served in elected office. I admire them and I am very proud the United States is standing by their side. I have every confidence the Iraqis will want us to leave at some point. But they understand, like we do, their capacity to defend the nation from the wolves of terrorism is limited right now. “I want to leave behind a democratic government where Iraqis can live together under the rule of law and settle their differences at the ballot box and courtroom. Our Iraqi friends have come a long way. They’re not lazy or indifferent. They are making history, fighting and dying along side us for their own freedom. Let’s not set a timetable that diminishes the sacrifices our nations have made. “History will judge us not when we left Iraq, but what we left behind.” ####
06.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has signed on in support of the Stop Over-Spending Act of 2006. The legislation, introduced by Budget Committee Chairman Judd Gregg (R-NH), seeks to make structural changes to how Washington spends taxpayer dollars. “This legislation will place long overdue spending restraints on the Congress,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Budget Committee. “We need to be more efficient in how we spend taxpayer dollars. This bill empowers people in Congress who want to control spending and reduce the size of government. It is the worst nightmare of those who want to continue to waste taxpayer dollars.” Among the major provisions of the legislation: Creation of a line-item veto tool that allows a President to target wasteful spending, ask that it be rescinded, and send it up to Congress for expedited consideration. Creation of a new and improved Gramm-Rudman-Hollings mechanism to balance the budget by 2012. It includes procedures to automatically slow the rate of growth for mandatory programs if Congress fails to meet deficit reduction targets. Reinstatement of statutory caps on discretionary spending – and new tools to prevent the use of all-too-convenient ‘emergency’ spending -- enforceable by an across the board sequester if Congress fails to adhere to the caps. Creation of a budgetary point of order against new mandatory if the Medicare program is projected to become insolvent in 7 years or less. Due to skyrocketing health care costs and an aging population, Medicare is projected to be the first of the large entitlement programs to become insolvent. Creation of two new bi-partisan commissions: one to study the accountability and efficiency of government programs (in a manner similar to the BRAC Commission), and the other to examine and provide solutions to the impending entitlement crisis. “Two-thirds of the federal budget is on autopilot as either interest on the national debt or mandatory spending,” said Graham. “Unfortunately, political malpractice is afoot when it comes to entitlements as many Senators don’t want to address the ticking time bomb. “I enthusiastically support budget reform which will bring about real change and bring about something that has been lost -- fiscal discipline,” said Graham. “I thank Chairman Gregg for his strong leadership and his willingness to push forward with a comprehensive reform bill. I look forward to working with my colleagues to restore responsibility to the budget process.” ####
06.14.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 I agree with President Bush, our current immigration laws are complex and unworkable. The physical security along our border is porous and in some areas, nearly non-existent. Combine these factors with spotty or lax enforcement of employment laws, and we have created the immigration situation we find ourselves in today. South Carolinians are rightly frustrated with our immigration system. They know the system is broken and we all pay the price. This is a concern I share. It is also why Congress and President Bush should continue to work together to bring some order to the chaos that exists right now. Here is a brief rundown of my views on immigration reform and how the Senate began to address these issues. I hope in the coming months the House of Representatives, Senate and President can come to some agreement on immigration reform. Each day we delay in securing our border, creating a workable employer verification system and creating a process to deal with the undocumented workers already in the United States only makes our immigration problems worse. Border Security The first issue to address in immigration reform must be border security. Over the last decade, the number of illegal border crossings has dramatically increased. Without better border security, any immigration reform is sure to fail. One reason I supported the Senate immigration reform bill is because it addresses the long-overdue and much-needed effort to regain control of our perimeters. Among the major provisions, it authorizes the hiring of an additional 14,000 Border Patrol agents over the next five years. It also calls for the construction of at least 370 miles of triple-layer fencing and 500 miles of vehicle barriers to be placed in high-traffic border crossing areas where people can literally walk into the United States. In more remote locations, it calls for the creation of a ‘virtual’ fence. This fence would use some of our most advanced technology such as unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), remote surveillance camera systems, motion detectors, and other technological devices to enhance the effectiveness of our Border Patrol. It also ends the ‘Catch and Release’ program where illegal immigrants detained by the Border Patrol are released and ordered to report to court at a future date. Needless to say, very few complied with the order, returned to court, and faced deportation. Now, because the Senate bill authorizes the construction of 20 new detention facilities capable of housing 20,000 detainees, we will be able to detain, house, and eventually deport them back to their home country when they are apprehended. While I support strengthening our border, I also realize that better border security alone will not adequately address our nation’s immigration problems. Almost half of the illegal immigrants in the United States today have overstayed their legally issued visas, and never crossed the border illegally. These illegal immigrants came to the United States as tourists, students or workers and never left the country. We must also remember that many rely on being able to legally cross our borders to continue in their businesses and day to day lives. Not all southern border crossings are illegal or pose a threat to the security of the United States. In fact, there are 350 million legal crossings between the United States and Mexico each year in the exchange of good and services. Each day nearly 1 million people legally cross at one of the entry points on the United States-Mexico border. Employee Verification and Employer Enforcement While the first issue to address in immigration reform must be border security, this alone provides a false sense of security and must be coupled with a workable employee verification system. Immigration is about jobs. We need to control who gets jobs, and how they get them. Creating an effective worker verification system that lets employers know whether a job applicant can legally work in the United States is a key element for successful immigration reform. The rampant fraud associated with the use of Social Security numbers and drivers licenses has put employers in a no-win situation for determining whether a person can legally work in the United States. If an employer questions the applicant’s documents too closely, they can face charges of discrimination. If they are too lax, they can be cited for not checking closely enough and hiring an illegal worker. In one case, an American company was under investigation by the United States Department of Justice for committing both offenses at the same time. This is why the Senate’s plan to institute a tamper-proof biometric worker verification card is so important. Under the plan, guest workers would be issued the card which contains biometric identifiers, such as digital fingerprints. This would enable employers to differentiate between legal and illegal workers before hiring them. After reforming the system and giving employers ample opportunity to comply with the new system, we must exercise the will to punish those who intentionally break the law. The Senate bill authorizes the hiring of 5,000 new interior enforcement investigators over the next 5 years to uphold our employment laws. We have been too lax in the enforcement of our well-intentioned but inadequate and confusing employment laws. As a result, the illegal workforce has become firmly entrenched in some of our state’s largest and most important industries such as agriculture, construction and tourism. Employers in many industries, including those crucial to South Carolina’s economy, need workers and want to hire them legally. We must provide the tools they need to not only comply with the law, but also to stay in business. Creating a workable employee verification system will also free up the enforcement officers to go after the unscrupulous businesses who knowingly violate our employment laws. They should be forced to comply with the stricter standards and penalties contained in the Senate bill, or face the consequences and end up behind bars. Undocumented Workers We must come up with an honest and rational solution on how to treat the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants already in our country. Like President Bush, I don’t think we are capable of, nor have the national will to, deport 11 million people. Further, an immediate roundup and deportation of this workforce would have negative consequences for our economy, potentially sending it into a tailspin. This ‘solution’ is not practical and therefore is simply not an option. The Senate compromise brings illegal immigrants already in the United States more than two years out of the shadows and requires them to meet rigorous standards in order to remain in our country. In essence, they are placed on 11 years of probation. The terms are strict but fair. They include: • Undocumented workers must come out of the shadows and register with the government; • Pay $3,200 in fines and penalties; • Be proficient in the English language; • Stay employed; • Undergo 2 comprehensive background checks to ensure they do not have a criminal record or pose a danger to society; • Pay all back taxes; • Register with the military Selective Service; • Attend American civics and government classes Failure to meet any of these requirements would result in deportation. Not every undocumented worker who applies for the program will meet the requirements. Those who don’t measure up to the standards we put in place will face deportation. Those who do meet the terms above – over a 6 year period – would be allowed to go to the back of the line to apply for citizenship. On average, waiting to become an American citizen after the application is filed takes 5 years. This means that from the time an undocumented worker enters this program until they become a citizen, there would be at least an 11 year wait. If we have not cleared the current immigration backlog in that period, the immigrant won’t be able to apply for citizenship until we do. The program is not amnesty. Amnesty is what President Carter gave to Vietnam draft dodgers who fled to Canada. This approach represents a rational middle ground between those who want to grant an automatic path to citizenship for all undocumented workers and those who want every one to leave. In addition, it is important to note that the Senate passed immigration bill does not make illegal aliens eligible to receive Social Security benefits. Our immigration system has been in disarray for so long there are generations of families with legal and illegal members. Some families have parents here illegally and children that are American citizens. Some husbands are illegal while the wives are legal. More importantly, there are many members of our military, particularly young Hispanic Marines, serving in Iraq and Afghanistan who are legal citizens by virtue of being born in America. They have chosen to fight and die for our country. Creating felons out of their parents, illegally in the country, is not the way to thank them for their service, and will not make America a better place. Conclusion Immigration is a complex issue. One aspect that has been particularly contentious among all Americans is constructing a fence to run the full length of the United States-Mexico border. Many South Carolinians support additional fencing and I agree with them. However, this idea is not universally accepted – even among border state legislators who would be most affected. The state of Texas shares a 1,200 mile border with Mexico and is the site of many legal and illegal border crossings. However, the Republican Senators from Texas split over the issue of creating a border fence. One Senator is open to the idea while the other views it as impractical. This split illustrates how difficult it can be to reach consensus on these issues even among legislators who normally agree. As Americans, we need to keep in mind the debate surrounding immigration is not a new one. As a nation of immigrants, we have had disagreements about how many immigrants we should absorb, their original nationality, and the impact they were having on the United States. Immigration is part of our history and among the founding principles of this nation. I strongly believe that working together we can address our immigration problems and allow our country to move toward a more prosperous future.
06.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $750,000 for counseling services in Lancaster and McCormick County elementary schools. Lancaster County School District will receive a $353,571 grant. McCormick County School District will receive a $396,020 grant. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
06.08.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the death of Zarqawi and the current situation in Iraq. Graham said: “The death of Zarqawi, along with some of his top operatives, is very welcome news. It also strikes a major blow to al-Qaeda in Iraq. “Zarqawi’s death shows our troops are working well with the Iraqi security forces and our intelligence gathering capabilities have improved. Today, we should also be very proud of our American troops, the finest in the world, who played a vital role in hunting down this ruthless killer. Because of their work, justice has now been served. “The situation in Iraq has shown some improvement. The recent appointments of a new Minister of Defense and a Minister of the Interior are welcome news as these are important posts controlling the armed forces and police. Filling these positions represent a significant breakthrough on the political scene in Iraq. “I’m hopeful the combination of Zarqawi’s death and the appointment of Ministers for these key positions will give us momentum for more political and military success in Iraq.” #####
06.08.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the death of Zarqawi and the current situation in Iraq. Graham said: “The death of Zarqawi, along with some of his top operatives, is very welcome news. It also strikes a major blow to al-Qaeda in Iraq. “Zarqawi’s death shows our troops are working well with the Iraqi security forces and our intelligence gathering capabilities have improved. Today, we should also be very proud of our American troops, the finest in the world, who played a vital role in hunting down this ruthless killer. Because of their work, justice has now been served. “The situation in Iraq has shown some improvement. The recent appointments of a new Minister of Defense and a Minister of the Interior are welcome news as these are important posts controlling the armed forces and police. Filling these positions represent a significant breakthrough on the political scene in Iraq. “I’m hopeful the combination of Zarqawi’s death and the appointment of Ministers for these key positions will give us momentum for more political and military success in Iraq.” #####
06.05.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will vote this week in support of a constitutional amendment protecting the traditional definition of marriage as the union of one man and one woman. The vote is scheduled to occur on Wednesday. “I believe in the traditional definition of marriage as being between one man and one woman,” said Graham. “Traditional marriage is an institution worth protecting and this amendment will accomplish that goal. A constitutional amendment is the only effective way to cut off the growing trend among judges to create a constitutional right to same-sex marriage.” Graham noted nine states – California, Connecticut, Iowa, Maryland, Nebraska, New Jersey, New York, Oklahoma and Washington – are facing lawsuits challenging the state’s traditional marriage laws. In four of those (California, Maryland, New York and Washington), courts have found a right to same-sex marriage in state constitutional provisions related to equal protection and due process. In each case, the court relied in part on the historic 2003 Massachusetts Supreme Court decision legalizing gay marriage in that state. On the federal level, a Nebraska federal district court found a 2005 constitutional amendment passed by 70 percent of the voters to be unconstitutional. The case has been appealed to the 8th Circuit Court of Appeals. There are also lawsuits challenging the traditional definition of marriage in federal courts currently pending in four states. “There have been a series of court decisions at the state and federal level where judges have held there is a constitutional right for same-sex marriage,” said Graham. “If marriage is ever to be redefined, it needs to be done by the people’s elected representatives, not a handful of activist judges.” #####
06.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $24 million dollars for public housing authorities in South Carolina. The Capital Fund formula grants are awarded on an annual basis and may be used for a variety of activities including modernization, development, financing, and management. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Recipients include: Charleston County Housing and Redevelopment Authority- $433,575 Housing Authority of Abbeville- $188,954 Housing Authority of Aiken- $507,259 Housing Authority of Anderson- $408,016 Housing Authority of Atlantic Beach- $72,781 Housing Authority of Beaufort- $430,224 Housing Authority of Bennettsville- $208,263 Housing Authority of Charleston- $2,009,420 Housing Authority of Cayce- $57,070 Housing Authority of Cheraw- $326,836 Housing Authority of Chester- $178,322 Housing Authority of Columbia- $3,466,335 Housing Authority of Conway- $396,619 Housing Authority of Darlington- $243,721 Housing Authority of Easley- $148,815 Housing Authority of Florence- $1,179,856 Housing Authority of Fort Mill- $194,897 Housing Authority of Gaffney- $425,022 Housing Authority of Georgetown- $431,460 Housing Authority of Greenville- $1,751,444 Housing Authority of Greenwood- $340,559 Housing Authority of Greer- $233,849 Housing Authority of Hartsville- $157,236 Housing Authority of Kingstree- $200,443 Housing Authority of Lake City- $447,776 Housing Authority of Lancaster- $204,131 Housing Authority of Laurens- $182,087 Housing Authority of Marion- $545,497 Housing Authority of McColl- $45,825 Housing Authority of Mullins- $260,772 Housing Authority of North Charleston- $803,856 Housing Authority of Newberry- $518,767 Housing Authority of Rock Hill- $543, 321 Housing Authority of Spartanburg- $2,023,956 Housing Authority of Sumter- $517,235 Housing Authority of Union- $421,879 Housing Authority of Woodruff- $146,008 Housing Authority of York- $169,656 Marlboro County Housing and Redevelopment Authority- $75,182 South Carolina Regional Housing Authority No. 1- $2,044,679 South Carolina Regional Housing Authority No. 3- $1,254,413 ####
06.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Western Carolina Higher Education Commission-Salkehatchie Leadership Institute in Allendale will receive a $327,460 grant. The grant will be used to continue a previous grant project, now known as the Salkehatchie Arts Partnership, developing an inventory of artisans and craftspeople in Allendale, Bamberg, Barnwell, Colleton, and Hampton counties. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the project is expected to assist 15 small, rural businesses and potentially create 20 new jobs. The grant was awarded by the USDA. ####
06.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Johnsonville will receive a $949,400 grant and a $3,092,000 loan for water system improvements. The funds will be used to install approximately 28 miles of water line, a well, a 300,000 gallon elevated storage tank, and a SCADA system. In addition, the funds will be used to replace galvanized water lines, valves, and meters. The loan and grant were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
05.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina will receive $1.8 million for alcohol abuse treatment research. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
05.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced South Carolina will receive more than $14.6 million for homeland security initiatives throughout the state. South Carolina will receive: $10,040,000 from the State Homeland Security Program. These funds support the implementation of activities to build the capability to prevent, protect against, respond to, and recover from acts of terrorism and other catastrophic events. $4,100,000 from the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program. These funds support law enforcement and public safety activities to prevent terrorist attacks through activities such as intelligence gathering, information sharing, and target hardening. $307,104 from the Citizen Corp Program. These funds are used to support activities that promote citizen preparedness and engage citizens in all-hazards prevention, protection, response, and recovery. $232,330 from the Metropolitan Medical Response System. These funds support planning and preparation activities for large-scale medical response for any catastrophic event. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
05.30.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the resignation of John Snow as Treasury Secretary and the nomination of Henry M. Paulson, Jr. to fill the position. “John Snow served his nation well as Treasury Secretary. He has a deep understanding of our nation’s economy and was an able advocate for American interests abroad. Our economy has flourished in recent years due, in large measure, to Secretary Snow’s work. “It has been one of the highlights of my time in the Senate to work closely with him on the China currency issue. John is someone whose word is his bond. “As for Mr. Paulson, President Bush has chosen wisely in selecting him for this position. He enjoys a great reputation throughout the world’s financial markets and investor community. I hope he will continue working in partnership with the Congress to keep pressure on China to accurately value its currency.” #####
05.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted to confirm General Michael Hayden to be Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Hayden was confirmed by a vote of 78-15. After the vote Graham made the following statement: “General Hayden brings an unrivaled depth of experience to the CIA from his time at the National Security Agency and his years of military service. I believe he is the right man at the right time to continue to rebuild the CIA in a fashion that will better protect our nation in the War on Terror. “He is replacing a good man in Porter Goss. I am confident he will build on the successes and reforms instituted by Director Goss, while at the same time remaining his own man. “President Bush has chosen wisely in his selection of General Hayden. All of his experience throughout the years in the intelligence community will help to make America more secure.” ####
05.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement of support for Susan Schwab, President Bush’s nominee for United States Trade Representative (USTR). “I strongly support the nomination of Susan Schwab to serve as our United States Trade Representative. She is an excellent choice and will serve our nation with distinction. “The USTR has become more important than ever in terms of protecting American economic interests from unfair overseas practices. Ms. Schwab understands that it is now time for America to push back against Chinese trade manipulation and other unfair practices. She will be aggressive advocate for American business interests and will continue to build on the success of Rob Portman. “I look forward to seeing her confirmed and will continue to encourage my Senate colleagues to allow a quick vote on this matter. There is overwhelming support for her nomination and the sooner we act on this nomination the better.” ####
05.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit. Kavanaugh was confirmed by a vote of 57-36. After the vote Graham made the following statement: “Brett Kavanaugh is an outstanding selection by President Bush to serve on the D.C. Circuit Court. He served in the Bush administration, was an advocate before the Supreme Court for the Solicitor General’s office, and was chosen to be a Supreme Court clerk. He has excelled academically and professionally. “Mr. Kavanaugh is a solid conservative with a deep understanding of our legal system. He also has real world legal experience that will serve our nation for years to come. I’m pleased the Senate has confirmed him to this important position at such a crucial time in American legal history.” ####
05.25.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today was pleased the Senate passed comprehensive immigration reform. The vote in the Senate was 62-36. “Our borders are broken,” said Graham. “We don’t have control over who comes into the country and how they get jobs. Today we made progress in addressing the immigration problems facing our nation. “The support shown today in the Senate is consistent with the American people’s desire to find a comprehensive solution to our immigration problems,” said Graham. “They want better border security, tougher employer enforcement provisions, and a process to deal with the estimated 11 million undocumented workers currently in the United States. “I want to thank President Bush for pushing the Senate and nation forward to address this important issue,” said Graham. “President Bush’s advocating the need to have a comprehensive solution has been well-received. We will need for him to continue to be involved to help push us to an agreement with the House of Representatives. Senator Frist also deserves a great deal of credit for designing a process that allowed sincere and honest debate.” Graham noted the Senate bill was strengthened by the adoption of several amendments. These include: * English is declared the national language of the United States. * Construction of at least 370 miles of triple-layer fencing and 500 miles of vehicle barriers at strategic locations along the U.S. – Mexico border. The new fencing will primarily be constructed in urban areas where today immigrants can literally walk into the United States. * The fines for undocumented workers to enter a guest worker program were raised from $2,000 to $3,200. (NOTE: The provisions requiring undocumented workers to register with the government, be proficient in English, show proof of employment, undergo two comprehensive background checks to ensure they do not have a criminal record or pose a danger to society, pay back taxes and attend a class on American civics were unchanged and remain in the Senate bill.) * The use of up to 6,000 of National Guard troops to help secure our nation’s southern border. “There is broad agreement among Americans that we must do more to protect our nation’s border,” said Graham. “There is also broad agreement that we need a system in place to match employers with willing guest workers in those positions where no American worker is readily available. The big question, and the one which generates the most controversy, is how do you deal with the estimated 11 million undocumented workers already in the United States? “Our nation does not have the means or the will to deport 11 million people,” said Graham. “This solution is not practical and is not a reasonable option. The Senate bill comes up with a just punishment and probationary system, while not perfect, that begins to bring some order to the chaos that exists right now.” #####
05.24.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the cloture vote on immigration. The 73-25 vote moves immigration reform toward final Senate passage. He also commented on the immigration reform proposal made by Congressman Pence. Graham said: “The overwhelming bipartisan vote for cloture ensures final passage will occur and immigration reform will not be filibustered. It’s a validation the process was fair to all. Senator Frist and Reid deserve great credit for designing a process that allowed sincere and honest debate on immigration reform to occur. Bipartisanship was the big winner. “The overwhelming vote is in-line with the American peoples desire to find a comprehensive solution to the problem. It’s also a rejection of a small minority who believe inaction is an appropriate response. “President Bush also deserves credit for pushing the Senate forward to address this important issue. President Bush’s advocating the need to have a comprehensive solution has been well-received. Those who believe it is better to do nothing are misjudging the desire of the American people who want better border security, employer enforcement and a way to deal with the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants already in the United States. “Looking ahead, I’m also very encouraged by the constructive proposals being made by conservative leaders in the House of Representatives like Congressman Pence. I believe many Republicans in the House understand it is time to comprehensively address this problem. After the Senate completes work on its bill, I look forward to working with the House to comprehensively address this important issue.” #####
05.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of an amendment making English the national language of the United States. The amendment was offered by U.S. Senator James Inhofe (R-OK) and passed the Senate by a vote of 63-34. “At every turn, we ought to reinforce the fact that for successful assimilation to take place, immigrants should become proficient in English,” said Graham. “English is the language of the United States.” Graham noted a major feature of the Senate’s comprehensive immigration reform bill includes a provision requiring undocumented workers to be proficient in English before they can apply for citizenship. An immigration reform bill passed by the House of Representatives does not contain a similar provision. In addition to the English proficiency requirement, undocumented workers must also register with the government, show proof of employment, pay $2,000 in fines, undergo two extensive and comprehensive background checks to ensure they do not have a criminal record or pose a danger to society, pay back taxes, and attend a class on American civics. Failure to meet any of these requirements over an eleven-year period would result in deportation. “Failure to learn English should disqualify any undocumented worker from participating in the reform proposals we are debating in the Senate,” said Graham. “It’s essential that undocumented workers who come out of the shadows become proficient in English. Failure to do so will lead to their deportation from the United States.” #####
05.18.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of the Federal Marriage Amendment to the Constitution. The amendment passed the Senate Judiciary Committee by a 10-8 vote. It is scheduled to come before the full Senate this summer. Graham said: “Traditional marriage is now under attack. That’s why I support a constitutional amendment defining marriage as being between one man and one woman. “Marriage is one of the oldest and strongest institutions in our culture. If someone wants to change what marriage means, it should come about through the constitutional process and actions of the peoples’ elected representatives, not the courts.” #####
05.17.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today supported construction of at least 370 miles of triple-layer fencing and 500 miles of vehicle barriers at strategic locations along the U.S. – Mexico border. The new fencing will primarily be constructed in urban areas where today immigrants can literally walk into the United States. “The first issue to address in immigration reform must be border security,” said Graham. “Our borders are clearly broken. Over the last decade, the number of people illegally crossing the border has dramatically increased. There’s no doubt we must do more to improve the security of our border and I’m glad our comprehensive immigration reform legislation addresses this important issue.” The amendment was offered by U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) and passed the Senate by a vote of 83-16. Graham noted the triple-layer fencing would be similar to the San Diego Border Fence, a state-of-the-art nearly impenetrable barrier which has made illegal entry into the U.S. much more difficult. “San Diego was once a haven for illegal crossings but the barrier nearly stopped the flood of border crossings from Mexico,” said Graham. “It worked and I believe we should expand it to protect additional miles of our border, particularly the urban border areas.” Graham noted that in addition to the Sessions amendment, the immigration reform bill has other provisions which toughen border security. They include the hiring of an additional 12,000 Border Patrol agents over the next five years and creation of a ‘virtual’ fence relying on cameras, motion detectors, and other technological devices to prevent illegal crossings in remote locations. The legislation also calls for the creation of additional fencing and barriers. “We must physically secure our border and that means more fencing, more barriers, and the use of more technology at our border,” said Graham. “Tougher border security is a vital and necessary component in comprehensive immigration reform. I’m pleased the Senate agreed to this amendment and look forward to tightening security along our nation’s borders.” #####
05.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Spartanburg Technical College will receive a $1.25 million economic development grant. The funds will be used to help build a business and industry technical training facility to serve existing and new private industry locating in Spartanburg. According to figures supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the project is expected to create 545 jobs and generate $100 million in private investment. “This is great news for Spartanburg,” said Graham. “This new facility will help Spartanburg Tech train and prepare a 21st Century workforce for competition in the global economy. Investments like this are a key ingredient in driving future economic development and making South Carolina a great place to do business.” “This investment will take advantage of the competitive strengths of South Carolina’s marketplace and increase the number of high-skill employment opportunities in our state,” said Graham. “I appreciate the leadership of President Bush and Secretary Gutierrez in helping America’s communities grow their economies and enable our workforce.” The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration. ####
05.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 South Carolinians are frustrated with our immigration system. They know the system is broken and we all pay the price. It’s a concern I share, along with President Bush, who I recently met with at the White House to discuss this issue. As a former border-state governor, he clearly understands the seriousness of the immigration problem facing our nation and the need to comprehensively address the problem. So how do we get a handle on a situation currently out-of-control? First, we must secure our borders. Over the last decade, the number of people illegally crossing the border has dramatically increased. Without better border security any congressional immigration reform is going to fail. Under the Senate immigration compromise I support, we will authorize the hiring of 12,000 new Border Patrol agents over the next 5 years. We also create fences and walls in certain high-traffic areas to prevent illegal crossing. In other areas, we create a ‘virtual’ fence which relies on cameras, motion detectors and other technological devices. I authored a provision, accepted in committee, which gets more individuals with military backgrounds into the Border Patrol. Due to modernization, in the coming years we’re expected to have a reduced number of people serving in some areas of the military. These veterans, with years of military experience and training, are excellent candidates to serve in our expanded Border Patrol. Second, increase employer enforcement and verification of legal workers. Comprehensive immigration reform should simplify our laws to solve the problems facing employers. In the compromise, we establish an efficient worker verification system that lets employers know if the person standing before them can legally work in the United States. Particularly important is preventing the rampant fraud in our current system where Social Security numbers and drivers licenses are fraudulently procured. Replacing that system with a tamper-proof verification card containing fingerprints and other identifying data of guest workers would be beneficial. After reforming the system and giving employers the opportunity to comply with new laws, it’s imperative we have the national will to punish employers who intentionally break the law. We have been too lax in enforcement of our employment laws. With winks-and-nods people looked the other way as illegal immigrants filled positions. As a result the illegal workforce has become firmly entrenched in some of our state’s largest and most important industries such as agriculture, construction, and tourism. Third, address the estimated eleven million illegal immigrants in the U.S. We must come up with an honest and rational solution on how to treat those who are already in this country illegally. Like President Bush, I don’t think we’re physically able remove eleven million illegal immigrants. We do not have the resources or detention space to do this. Also, an immediate roundup and deportation of this workforce would send our economy into a tailspin. This ‘solution’ is simply not an option. The Senate compromise brings illegal immigrants already in the U.S. more than two years out of the shadows and requires them to meet rigorous standards in order to remain in our country. In essence, we place them on 11 years of probation. The terms are strict but fair. They will have to register with the government, be proficient in English, show proof of employment, pay $2,000 in fines, undergo 2 extensive and comprehensive background checks to ensure they do not have a criminal record or pose a danger to society, pay back taxes, and attend a class on American civics. Failure to meet any of these requirements would result in deportation. Guest-workers must meet very strict criteria over an eleven year period before going to the back of the line to apply for citizenship. The program isn’t amnesty. Amnesty is what President Carter gave to draft dodgers who fled to Canada. Our immigration system has been in disarray for so long there are generations of families with legal and illegal members. Some families have parents here illegally and children that are American citizens. Some husbands are illegal while the wives are legal. More importantly, there are many military members, particularly young Hispanic Marines serving in Iraq and Afghanistan who are legal citizens by virtue of being born in America. They have chosen to fight and die for their country. Creating felons out of their parents, illegally in the country, is not going to make America a better place. The last days of the Senate session before Easter recess represented the best and worst of the United States Senate. Our comprehensive immigration reform bill combining border security, employer verification, and guest-worker provisions would have garnered near 70 votes on the Senate floor. The substance of the deal held, only to be hijacked by the unfair procedural tactics of Democratic Leader Harry Reid. It’s now time for the Senate to get back to work.
05.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he supports the temporary use of National Guard troops to help secure our nation’s southern border. Graham is Chairman of the Subcommittee on Personnel of the Senate Armed Services Committee.“As a short-term measure, I support the use of National Guard troops at the border,” said Graham. “The Guard can act as a force multiplier freeing up more Border Patrol agents to pursue and apprehend those illegally crossing into the United States. This use of the Guard, on a temporary basis, makes sense and will be a shot in the arm to our border security efforts.”“However, putting National Guard troops at the border is not a long-term strategy,” said Graham. “It should only be used until we can get an expanded Border Patrol up and running. An expanded Border Patrol, along with the use of additional fences, walls, and technology, are key ingredients in regaining control of our broken southern border.”Graham noted the compromise immigration reform bill before the Senate authorizes the hiring of an additional 12,000 Border Patrol agents over the next five years. The compromise also calls for the building of fences and walls in certain high-traffic areas to prevent illegal crossings. In other areas, a ‘virtual’ fence relying on cameras, motion detectors, and other technological devices will be created.Graham also authored a provision, accepted in committee, which gets more individuals with military backgrounds into the Border Patrol. Due to modernization, in the coming years we’re expected to have a reduced number of people serving in some areas of the military. These veterans, with years of military experience and training, are excellent candidates to serve in our expanded Border Patrol. “Protecting the border is basically a law enforcement function,” said Graham. “While we do have military police units in the Guard, many of them have been activated several times in the War on Terror. I worry the Guard doesn’t have the manpower to handle a long-term deployment protecting the border. “The Guard is already on call to assist with future hurricane relief efforts and would be needed if another terrorist attack occurred on American soil,” said Graham. “If this mission were to last more than eighteen to twenty-four months, we could end up doing more harm than good by making it more difficult to recruit and retain Guard members.”#####
05.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Genetics Endowment of South Carolina, Inc., in Greenwood will receive a $370,000 grant for infrastructure improvements. The funds will be used to help build roadway and storm-water infrastructure for the development of a 189-acre technology park that will serve new private technology and research development firms locating in Greenwood. According to figures supplied by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the investment will help attract $12 million in private investment and create 43 jobs for local citizens. “This is an investment in the future,” said Graham. “Infrastructure improvements are a vital part of competing for future business recruitment and economic development opportunities.” “This investment will take advantage of the competitive strengths of South Carolina’s marketplace and increase the number of high-skill employment opportunities in our state,” said Graham. “I appreciate the leadership of President Bush and Secretary Gutierrez in helping America’s communities grow their economies and enable our workforce.” The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration. ####
05.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on President Bush’s decision to address the nation on immigration reform and upcoming Senate debate. Bush is scheduled to address the nation on Monday and Senate debate will begin next week. Graham said: “Like most Americans I anxiously await the President’s speech on immigration. President Bush deserves credit for making this issue part of the national debate. With his leadership, I think we can pass comprehensive immigration reform into law this year. I also strongly believe the President’s recent Oval Office meeting with a bipartisan group of Senators helped create a climate to move immigration reform forward. “Senator Frist also deserves credit for his work on this issue. We have broken borders, unworkable laws, and an estimated 11 million illegal immigrants currently in the country. The fact the Senate is able to bring such a controversial piece of legislation to the floor is a testament to the work done by Senator Frist. The process he helped negotiate should be fair to all with adequate opportunity for amendments and debate. “It’s now time for the Senate to speak on immigration reform.” #####
05.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced $1.2 million in brownfield grants for Columbia, Florence, Greenville, and Rock Hill. Brownfield grants promote the redevelopment of abandoned and contaminated or potentially contaminated industrial and commercial waste sites. Columbia The City of Columbia will receive a $200,000 hazardous substances grant to conduct public involvement activities, inventory sites, perform environmental site assessments, monitor resident health, and develop cleanup and redevelopment plans for affected neighborhoods in the city’s Empowerment Zone. The city will also receive a $200,000 petroleum grant to perform similar tasks at sites with potential petroleum contamination, especially in the East Central City and Eau Claire/North Columbia communities. Florence The City of Florence will receive a $200,000 hazardous substances grant to conduct community outreach, perform environmental site assessments, and develop cleanup and redevelopment plans for a 20-acre area known as the Triangle. The city will also receive a $200,000 grant to clean up hazardous substances co-mingled with petroleum contamination at the former Bush Recycling site. Greenville The City of Greenville will receive a $200,000 hazardous substance grant to support health monitoring activities, conduct community outreach, perform environmental site assessments, and develop cleanup and redevelopment plans in the West Greenville/Reedy River corridor. Rock Hill The Catawba Regional Council of Governments will receive a $200,000 hazardous substances grant to inventory and prioritize brownfield sites, conduct community outreach, perform environmental site assessments, and develop reuse plans for sites in the urban core of Rock Hill. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. ####
05.11.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the Treasury report saying China is not a manipulator of its currency. “The continued practice of the Chinese manipulating their currency is devastating to American manufacturers. We had good meetings with the Chinese on our visit in March, but if that's mistaken for an abandonment of the issue that would be a mistake on their part. “We’ll see what happens between now and the end of September. But if the yuan does not appreciate in a significant manner between now and then, we’ll have a vote on our bill. If it comes to a vote, I think we’ll get more than the 67 votes we received in April 2005.” Graham, along with U.S. Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY) has introduced legislation allowing for a 180-day negotiation period between the United States and China on currency revaluation. If the negotiations are not successful, a temporary across the board tariff of 27.5 percent will be applied to all Chinese products entering the United States. The bill received 67 votes in April 2005 on a procedural motion. The Senators reserve the right to call it up for a Senate vote on passage before September 30, 2006. #####
05.11.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Senators Bill Frist (R-Tenn.), Chuck Hagel (R-Neb.), Mel Martinez (R-Fla.), Jon Kyl (R-Ariz.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) today released the following joint statement regarding the unanimous consent agreement to bring comprehensive immigration reform legislation back to the Senate floor Monday: “Under the unanimous consent agreement reached today, the Senate will resume the immigration debate next week. Senate Republicans are united in their commitment to an open and full debate on multiple amendments -- just as we have done on other bills of this magnitude like bankruptcy and class action reform. “We are willing to put differences aside so we can get on with the important work to be done securing our borders and grappling with the 12 million illegal immigrants currently living in our country. We are also in agreement that efforts to curtail the debate prematurely will only derail this process. We call on Senate Democrats to allow an open debate and votes on this complex and challenging issue.” ###
05.11.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced legislation in the U.S. Senate creating the H-Prize. The H-Prize is meant to help overcome the technical challenges related to using hydrogen as a widely available and abundant fuel source by offering cash incentives. “As a nation, we need to become less dependent on foreign oil,” said Graham. “It would be irresponsible if 50 years from now we’re still reliant on Middle Eastern oil to drive our national economy. We need to get away from fossil fuels and start looking at using different sources of energy such as hydrogen. The H-Prize will help foster additional research and development in the long-overdue effort to make hydrogen a significant source of our nation’s energy supply.” Graham serves as the co-chair of the Senate Hydrogen Caucus, along with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND). Dorgan has signed on as the lead Democratic sponsor of the H-Prize legislation in the Senate. “Prices at the gas pump make plain that when it comes to how we use energy ‘yesterday forever’ is not a strategy that works very well,” said Dorgan. “While fossil fuels will always be a part of our energy mix, developing new domestic sources of energy is more important today than it has ever been. The H-Award will provide a powerful incentive for research and advancement in one of the most promising new areas on the horizon – developing hydrogen fuel cells and making them an integral part of our economy.” Graham noted South Carolina is a national leader in hydrogen research. The University of South Carolina is developing hydrogen fuel cells, Clemson is working on hydrogen vehicles, Aiken County has established a Hydrogen Research Center, and the Savannah River Site is a leading research facility in hydrogen storage and technology. These groups and others recently united behind the South Carolina Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Association which coordinates the state’s efforts to be a leading player in the emerging hydrogen economy. The H-Prize is modeled on the Ansari X Prize which last year spurred the first privately funded suborbital human spaceflight. Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly approved legislation by U.S. Rep. Bob Inglis (R-SC) and Dan Lipinski (D-IL) creating the H-Prize. Awards will be offered in the following categories: Technological Advancement: Four prizes of up to $1 million will be awarded every two years for outstanding achievements in the Production, Storage, Distribution, and Utilization of hydrogen. Prototypes: One prize of up to $4 million will be awarded every two years for working hydrogen vehicle prototypes that meets performance goals. Transformational Technology: Over the next ten years, a single $10 million prize funded by the federal government or private donations for breakthrough hydrogen technologies. The legislation directs the Secretary of Energy to contract with a private foundation or other non-profit entity to establish criteria for the prizes and administer the prize contest. “Hydrogen holds tremendous promise for the future,” said Graham. “The H-Prize is an important step forward in the drive to help our nation become energy independent. I’m proud to be part of this effort in the Senate and appreciate the work done by Congressmen Inglis and Lipinski in creating incentives for the private sector to create hydrogen-based vehicles. The H-Prize is a clear signal from the federal government that we are interested and believe in a hydrogen-based transportation economy. The H-Prize puts our money where our mouth is.” “I’m proud to be the lead Senate co-sponsor of legislation that will spark research and development that can take us to a more secure and stable energy future,” concluded Dorgan. The passage into law last year of the Energy Bill contained more than $3.5 billion in funding over the next 5 years for hydrogen research. The hydrogen provisions in the bill were largely based upon language authored by Graham and Dorgan. #####
05.11.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of $70 billion in tax relief over the next five years. The measure passed the Senate 54-44. The bill has passed the House of Representatives and President Bush is expected to sign it into law. Graham made this statement after the Senate vote. “I firmly believe our tax cutting policies over the past few years are a major reason our national economy is performing so well. Tax relief helped create one of the strongest economic expansions in years and a national unemployment rate below 5 percent. Also, since the first Bush tax cuts were enacted, revenues to the federal treasury have gone up. “Our latest extension of tax relief will also be helpful in continuing to push our economy forward. I enthusiastically supported today’s tax stimulus package and look forward to President Bush signing it into law. “Unfortunately, many of our Democratic friends have opposed us in our tax cutting efforts at every turn. If the Democrats were in charge, nothing would have changed and Americans would still be paying higher taxes.” #####
05.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Hillary Clinton (D-New York), co-Chairs of the Senate Manufacturing Caucus, today hosted a roundtable discussion about the future of the defense industry in a global economy. The discussion included companies from New York and South Carolina and experts in defense manufacturing. Graham and Clinton co-founded the Manufacturing Caucus to promote the interests of domestic manufacturing and create a dialogue between industry leaders and Members of Congress. As our nation faces the new and different challenges of the 21st century, the United States must develop a thoughtful policy that both secures our domestic industrial base and enhances the economic benefits provided by foreign employers and consumers. “It’s now time for Republicans and Democrats to join together to strengthen the manufacturing sector and take steps to create a better business environment to ensure our soldiers and sailors have the equipment they need to carry out their mission,” said Graham. “The caucus explores all aspects of the manufacturing sector with the ultimate goal of restoring this vital part of our economy. To improve the manufacturing climate in our state and nation, we’ll have to work together. Honest and informative discussions between Members of Congress and industry leaders are a step in the right direction.” “A strong manufacturing base is important in order to keep our economy and middle class strong, but it’s also important to support our national security,” said Senator Clinton. “In the post-9/11 world, it is time for a reexamination of what we need and should expect from our defense industrial base. We face critical questions about how we maintain the capacity to produce components needed for our national defense and today’s discussion was an important start to addressing them.” Participants included: Dr. Loren Thompson, COO, Lexington Institute; John Douglass, President and CEO, Aerospace Industry Association; Hon. Dave McCurdy, President and CEO, Electronic Industries Alliance, and former Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence; Bob Roberts, President & CEO, Syracuse Research Corporation; Dr. Brian Dailey, Senior VP, Lockheed Martin; Steve Evered, Director of Government Affairs, Michelin North America, Inc.; and, Mike Aldrich, Vice President, Force Protection, Inc. ####
05.08.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Lancaster County will receive a $589,950 grant for improvements at Lancaster County-McWhirter Field. The funds will be used to rehabilitate the apron. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
05.05.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Senate Armed Services Committee had fully funded the U.S. MOX program for Fiscal Year 2007. Construction of the MOX facility at Savannah River Site (SRS) is scheduled to begin in fall 2006. Earlier this week, Graham announced that an estimated 500 jobs related to construction of the MOX facility will be coming to the Site. “I’m pleased and grateful to the committee for fully funding the MOX program,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “With full funding we’ll be able to start construction in the fall and move toward completing the facility. The MOX program is vital to our national security and we will continue to work together to ensure it is adequately funded. The citizens of South Carolina, along with the Savannah River Site workforce, should be proud of the role we are playing in making the world a safer place.” The Senate’s full funding for the MOX facility at Savannah River Site totals $368.2 million. $289.5 million will go toward construction of the facility. Additionally, the committee approved $78.7 million in funding for the Pit Disassembly and Conversion Facility to be constructed at the Site. Last week, a House panel slashed $150 million in construction funding for the MOX facility at the Site. On Wednesday, Congressman Joe Wilson (R-SC) successfully added $34.7 million in the House Armed Services Committee back to the MOX program. The Site is also scheduled to receive $1.16 billion in cleanup activities at the Site. Graham was able to secure $80 million over the president’s original budget request. This is also $50 million more than the current House Armed Services Committee figure. “I believe restoring $80 million will help the site continue its cleanup work,” said Graham. “It hopefully will also create stability for the workforce at SRS throughout the budget cycle. “I will continue meeting with the Department of Energy, along with members of the South Carolina and Georgia congressional delegations, to make sure our accelerated cleanup efforts are adequately funded,” said Graham. “We must protect the local environment and the taxpayer’s wallet by cleaning up these tanks in an efficient and cost-effective manner. The Site has done its part to embrace reforms that allow for sound environmental polices to be implemented at a substantial savings to the taxpayer. Now we need DOE to keep its funding commitments to the Site. “I hope these numbers can hold in the House-Senate conference,” concluded Graham. #####
05.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Jim DeMint and Lindsey Graham announced a $4,469,789 grant under the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program to the City of Greenville. The grant falls under the COPS Interoperable Communications Technology Program and is one of only three awarded nationally. “These funds will allow local law enforcement and fire and medical service communities to have the ability to share critical information and significantly increase public safety,” said Senator DeMint. “First responders and emergency personnel risk their lives every day to protect others,” said Senator Graham. “They are the first line of defense during natural disasters and other emergencies. This grant will help provide them with the technology they need to save lives.” Communications interoperability refers to the ability to talk across disciplines and jurisdictions via radio communications networks on demand, in real time when needed, and as authorized. One of the major issues currently facing emergency services providers is the inability of first responders to communicate with one another. This grant is a regional effort, affecting Greenville, Spartanburg, Laurens and Pickens. Greenville City Police Chief W. L. Johnson said, “This is going to connect Law Enforcement in four counties where we will have interoperability for day-to-day police activities and for crisis response. It is a huge step forward for law enforcement in the Upstate of South Carolina, and something that could not be done on our own. The federal government has provided a way through this grant program.” The funds will offset the cost of purchasing voice and data communications equipment, enhancing communications infrastructures, and project management. The COPS Office awarded 26 agencies nearly $93 million in FY2005 to address this growing need through the COPS Interoperable Communications Technology grant program. This initiative was coordinated with the Office of Justice Programs, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), and the SAFECOM Program. Targeted agencies were invited to apply for funding for both voice and data interoperability projects. In addition to these 2005 grants, the COPS Office awarded 37 projects across the nation totaling $149 million in fiscal years 2003 & 2004. ###
05.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today was one of twenty Senators to vote against the Supplemental Appropriations Act. The Senate vote was 78-20. The supplemental is meant to fund emergency spending priorities outside the normal appropriations process. “The Republican Party of old cared about numbers when it came to spending. It’s long past time our Republican majority gets back to our fiscally conservative roots. A perfect place for us to start was with a supplemental spending bill where some spending priorities defied any rational definition of being an emergency.” Graham recently signed a letter to President Bush with thirty-four other senators, including South Carolina Senator Jim DeMint, saying he would vote to sustain a presidential veto if the supplemental bill spends more than the President’s $94.5 billion request. Thirty-four votes are needed to sustain a presidential veto. The final bill passed by the Senate contained $108.9 billion in spending. “I completely agree with President Bush’s view that $94.5 billion should be our outer limit on spending in this bill to rebuild the Gulf Coast and fund the War on Terror,” said Graham. “I will enthusiastically support a presidential veto if the bill comes out of the House-Senate conference over $94.5 billion.” ###
05.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) (Washington, DC)-- A bill which would allow veterans to hire lawyers to represent them in their efforts to obtain federal benefits from the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has been introduced by U.S. Senators Larry Craig (R-Idaho) and Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). The legislation (S.2694 - the Veterans’ Choice of Representation Act of 2006), if enacted, would repeal restrictions flowing from a policy born nearly 150 years ago when attending law school was not required to become a lawyer and many practicing law were considered ill trained and unscrupulous. "I suppose that some would still warn that lawyers are not to be trusted, but the reality is that the laws are complex and I want veterans to have the option of hiring an attorney to help navigate the system, if they choose," said Sen. Craig, who chairs the Senate Committee on Veterans’ Affairs. "A recent editorial put it this way, ‘If American soldiers are mature and responsible enough to choose to risk their lives for their country, shouldn’t they be considered competent to hire a lawyer?’ I believe the obvious answer to that question is ‘yes,’ Simply put, the current paternalistic restriction is outdated." Under current law, all 24 million living veterans are prohibited from hiring a lawyer to help them navigate the Veterans Affairs system. It is only after a veteran has spent months and even years exhausting the extensive VA administrative process that the veteran then may retain counsel – a process that often takes 3 or more years to complete. "This overdue change will significantly improve veterans’ access to the VA and expedite just outcomes," said Sen. Graham, who also serves on the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee. "In today’s complicated world, legal assistance in navigating the system is more timely than ever. I thank Chairman Craig for his leadership in this effort." Under the current appeals system, about 85 percent of veterans choose to be represented by Veterans’ Service Organizations or state veterans agency personnel. "I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that attorneys should be considered necessary in order to obtain VA benefits," Chairman Craig said. "We must ensure that the system continues to serve veterans in a friendly, non-adversarial manner – regardless of the presence of an attorney or any other representative. I also want to be clear that, although I believe veterans should have the option to hire attorneys, they should not be discouraged in any way from utilizing the valuable free services now provided by many dedicated representatives of veterans’ service organizations." ####
05.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced 500 new jobs will be coming to the Savannah River Site (SRS) this year. The jobs are related to construction of the MOX facility at SRS which will begin later this year. “This is welcome news for Savannah River Site, the MOX program, and the state,” said Graham. “The MOX program is incredibly important to the Site, nation, and world. I’m glad we are taking steps to get the construction and eventual operation of the facility moving forward.” The first phase will see approximately 200 employees from the MOX contractor, Duke Cogema Stone & Webster (DCS), transition from their current offices in Charlotte to the Site by the end of the year. The bulk of these employees are expected to move this summer. These employees will be involved in managing the MOX facility construction and startup activities, providing engineering support during the construction phase, and obtaining an operating license from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. In addition, DCS says it plans to hire approximately 320 subcontractor employees for construction by the end of the year. These employees will perform construction activities, such as excavating the MOX facility site, pouring the concrete foundation, and installing equipment. In 2000, the U.S. and Russia agreed to dispose of 68 metric tons (34 metric tons each) of surplus, weapon-grade plutonium by turning it into MOX fuel for use in existing, commercial nuclear reactors. Once the MOX fuel has been created and irradiated in a nuclear reactor, the plutonium can no longer be used for nuclear weapons. Sixty-eight metric tons of plutonium is enough material for 17,000 nuclear weapons. “The congressional delegation is committed to ensuring the MOX program becomes a reality and today we are taking another step forward,” said Graham. “The MOX program is vital to our national security and we will continue to work together to ensure it is adequately funded. The citizens of South Carolina, along with the Savannah River Site workforce, should be proud of the role we are playing in making the world a safer place.” #####
05.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after the release of the Social Security and Medicare Trustees Reports. The report concludes that by 2017 Social Security will begin to pay out more in benefits than it collects in taxes and will be insolvent in 2040, one year earlier than previous estimates. Medicare reserve funds will be exhausted by 2018, two years earlier than previously believed. “The latest report proves that time is not on our side when it comes to reforming Social Security and Medicare. Every year we fail to address these issues makes the solution more difficult. “In the Senate I have proposed several combinations that would lead to Social Security solvency. Many of my Republican colleagues have done the same. Unfortunately, no member of the Democratic Party has come on board. When it comes to Social Security and Medicare reform, the Democratic Party solution seems to be blame Republicans. It needs to end. “The number of workers paying taxes to support Social Security dropped from 16-to-1 in 1950 to 3-to-1 today. Within a generation there will be only 2 workers to support each retiree. The consequences of ignoring the demographic time bomb facing Social Security are severe. If we fail to modernize the system we will be forced to either raise payroll taxes 50 percent or cut benefits by one-third. The first choice poses a significant risk to the economy and the second devastates tens of millions of seniors. We can fix Social Security if we roll up our sleeves and get to work. To do nothing is political malpractice.” #####
04.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today signed on as a sponsor to the Gas Price Reduction Act which temporarily suspends through September 30 the 18.4 cents a gallon federal gas tax. The plan reimburses the Highway Trust fund an equal amount by suspending certain tax credits and royalties for the major oil companies. “This is a temporary relief measure,” said Graham. “I hope it will be followed by a longer-term strategy to wean our nation of our dependence on foreign sources of oil. As a nation, we must become more energy independent.” Graham noted the gas tax roll back plan introduced by Senator John Thune (R-South Dakota) didn’t take money away from the Highway Trust Fund and reduce South Carolina’s share of highway funds which are spent on maintenance and upkeep. The revenue lost by the suspension of the federal gas tax will be replaced by reducing, canceling, and reallocating previous tax credits and royalty payments to the major oil companies. “I know what high gas prices mean to citizens and businesses in South Carolina,” said Graham. “Increased fuel prices hits everyone – from families, to those on fixed incomes, to our businesses -- very hard. With the price of a barrel of oil over $70, these tax credits and royalty waivers are not needed by the oil companies. It’s only appropriate to do away with these breaks.” During his service in the House of Representatives and Senate, Graham has repeatedly voted to open the Artic National Wildlife Refuge to exploration. The provision has been blocked in the Senate for years. Graham also serves as the co-chair of the Senate Hydrogen Caucus and has been a strong supporter of research and development of hybrid vehicles and hydrogen-powered automobiles. The passage into law last year of the Energy Bill contained more than $3.5 billion in funding over the next 5 years for hydrogen research. The hydrogen provisions in the bill were largely based upon language authored by Graham and Senator Byron Dorgan (D-North Dakota). “As for the long term, I think it would be irresponsible if 50 years from now we’re still reliant on Middle Eastern oil to drive our national economy,” said Graham. “We need to get away from fossil fuels and start looking at using different sources of energy such as hydrogen.” “Our state is a national leader in hydrogen research,” said Graham. “USC is developing fuel cells, Clemson is working on hydrogen vehicles, and Savannah River Site (SRS) is a leading research facility on hydrogen technologies. What Detroit was to the automotive industry, South Carolina can be to hydrogen.” #####
04.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Jim DeMint and Lindsey Graham announced today a Water and Waste Disposal Loan and Grant totaling nearly $5 million to the Alligator Rural Water and Sewer Company in the city of Chesterfield. “These funds are a key resource to rural communities who cannot fully absorb the costs of developing these systems,” said Senator DeMint. “I applaud those involved for their efforts to secure the necessary local support to pursue these funds.” “The funds for this project will help provide a safe and dependable water supply for residents of the area,” said Graham. “Key infrastructure improvements like this help with future development and I hope this pays dividends for years to come. I’m optimistic and encouraged about the impact this project will have on the future of the community.” The funds come in the form of a $2,139,300 grant and a $2,784,000 loan from the United States Department of Agriculture Rural Development. The USDA Rural Development promotes economic development by supporting loans to businesses through banks and community-managed lending pools. They offer technical assistance and information to help agricultural and other cooperatives get started and improve the effectiveness of their member services and provide technical assistance to help communities undertake community empowerment programs. “I want to thank Senators Graham and DeMint for their hard work and dedication to the rural areas of South Carolina,” said Tee Miller South Carolina State Director for USDA Rural Development. The Rural Development funds will be used to construct a new deep well, a 1,000 gpm booster pump station, a 1,500,000 gallon storage tank, approximately 32,700 ft. of water line, and related appurtenance. The project will tie into Alligator’s existing system and will increase Alligator’s pumping and transmission capacity. This project will provide an adequate source of water both in quality and quantity, to over 85% of the residents of Chesterfield County. Approximately 36,000 Chesterfield County residents will benefit from this project. ###
04.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Williamsburg County will receive a $1,724,300 grant and a $2,102,000 loan for water infrastructure improvements. The funds will be used to install approximately 25 miles of water distribution lines in the South Williamsburg area. “The area has been identified by the Department of Health and Environmental Control as an environmentally distressed area,” said Graham. “The funds for this project will help provide a safe and dependable water supply for residents of the area. Key infrastructure improvements like this help with future development and I hope this pays dividends for years to come. I’m optimistic and encouraged about the impact this project will have on the future of the community.” The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development. “USDA Rural Development is committed to the future of South Carolina’s rural communities,” said Tee Miller, South Carolina State Director of USDA Rural Development. “The infrastructure built with these funds is an investment in the future of Williamsburg County." ####
04.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Abbeville County Memorial Hospital will receive a $180,000 grant to support rural health network development. The hospital is partnering with Lakelands Rural Health Network to develop a collaborative, economically viable health network to improve the quality of care in Abbeville, Edgefield, Greenwood, McCormick, and Saluda counties. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
04.25.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the town of Lake View will receive an $842,900 grant and a $1,161,000 loan for improvements to the town’s wastewater treatment facility. The funds will be used for an intermittent sand filter, a chlorine contact tank, an effluent pumping station, and a 33 acre spray field. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
04.25.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today met with President Bush at the White House to discuss immigration reform. Graham was part of a bipartisan delegation of Senators. Graham said: “After our meeting, I deeply believe President Bush would like immigration reform to be part of his legacy. As a former border state governor, President Bush is well-versed on the nature of the problem and the need to address it in a comprehensive manner. He also understands the basic fact that it is impractical to deport and physically remove all 11 million illegal immigrants in the United States. “During our meeting, President Bush reaffirmed his position that allowing illegal immigrants to jump in front of someone pursuing legal status would be wrong. I agree with the President and the bipartisan compromise bill we negotiated in the Senate does not allow illegal immigrants to jump to the front of the line. “Immigration reform is one of the most complex and important matters facing our nation. With presidential leadership on this difficult issue, I think we can pass comprehensive immigration reform into law. “I’m convinced the President will do everything in his power to pass immigration reform that secures our border, reforms our employment laws, and fairly deals with the 11 million people here illegally. “I hope the Senate will again take up this most important issue in the near future.” #####
04.12.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on reports that Iran has enriched uranium. Graham is a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “The recent news that Iran has enriched uranium is very disturbing. There is nothing worse – short of Al-Qaeda having a nuclear bomb – than Iran having a nuclear bomb. “We know the President of Iran is a dangerous man. He has threatened to destroy Israel and continues to deny the Holocaust ever happened. Based upon his words and past actions, I’m very concerned that if Iran develops a nuclear weapon they would use it to attack Israel. “I agree with President Bush that a nuclear-armed Iran is a danger to the security of the Middle East and the world. I hope we can solve this problem through diplomacy. However, we must ensure that all options remain on the table.” #####
04.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the South Carolina Department of Public Safety will receive a $609,700 grant to aid in strengthening the state’s juvenile justice system. The money was awarded through the Juvenile Accountability Block Grant (JABG) program. The JABG program helps states and local governments improve their juvenile justice systems. Awards are made to each state based on the population of youth under the age of eighteen. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
04.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Rock Hill will receive a $175,000 grant to support the Weed and Seed program. Weed and Seed aims to prevent, control, and reduce violent crime, drug abuse, and gang activity in targeted high-crime neighborhoods. The strategy involves a two-pronged approach: law enforcement agencies and prosecutors cooperate in ‘weeding out’ criminals who participate in violent crime and drug abuse, attempting to prevent their return to the targeted area; and ‘seeding’ brings human services to the area, encompassing prevention, intervention, treatment, and neighborhood revitalization. This is the first award for the Rock Hill program. During this project period program goals include: sanctioning individuals involved in violent crime; restoring a sense of safety to the community; establishing multi-jurisdictional teams to identify youth gang activity; providing opportunities for offenders to participate in community programs; offering youth alternatives to gang life and criminal activity by engaging them in educational and job training programs; and, revitalize areas of Rock Hill by restoring existing housing stock, encouraging the expansion of home ownership programs, and promoting diverse neighborhoods that are well maintained. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
04.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) discussed immigration reform being voted down this morning in the Senate. Graham said the agreement fell apart because Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) placed unprecedented conditions on Majority Leader Bill Frist (R-TN). “Today, we missed a golden opportunity to get a handle on the real and serious immigration problems facing our nation by failing to pass comprehensive immigration reform. “Our borders are clearly broken. The Senate’s inaction means we’re going to be delayed in our effort to build more fences at the border, hire additional Border Patrol agents, and hire more Customs officials to ensure those working in the United States are here legally. We’ll also be delayed in our efforts to get a handle on the eleven million illegal immigrants already in the United States. “The blame should be placed squarely on the shoulders of the Senate Minority Leader, Democrat Harry Reid. We had a compromise that would have secured an overwhelming vote in the Senate. But Reid decided he would procedurally kill the bill. “The Minority Leader demanded only three amendments be offered on the Senate floor. That’s against the precedent of the Senate and simply not fair to our colleagues. The American people deserve to have their voices heard, through a reasonable number of amendments, on one of the most important pieces of legislation to come before the body. “Reid’s further insistence that Senators outside the Judiciary Committee not be allowed to offer amendments and the naming of conferees before we passed a bill was unfair and does great damage to the customs of the Senate. I’m extremely disappointed with Democrat Minority Leader Reid for destroying the ability to get bipartisan compromise. The blame lies at his feet. “The demands made on the Republican Leader by Minority Leader Reid were ridiculous. Like President Bush and a majority of Senators, I am for a comprehensive solution to immigration reform. “I hope President Bush will continue to push the Senate to pass comprehensive reform and I hope the Senate will soon return to this issue. Senator Specter, Chairman of the Judiciary Committee has said he intends to take it up in committee when we return from break. “Immigration is a very real problem and the sooner we address it, the better. The longer we delay the worse the problem becomes.” #####
04.06.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he supported the Senate compromise bill on immigration reform. Graham participated in the negotiations with other Senators which led to the agreement. President Bush has expressed support for the bipartisan work of the Senate. Under the agreement, illegal immigrants would be separated into categories depending on the length of time they have been in the United States. * Illegal immigrants living in the country at least five years would be put on an eleven year path toward citizenship as long as they paid a $2,000 fine, passed a national security and criminal background check, remained employed, paid federal and state taxes, registered for military service, passed a civics test, and learned to speak English. They will not have to visit a port of entry. * Illegal immigrants living in the country for two to five years would have the opportunity obtain a temporary work visa. They would be subject to the visa requirements (fines, background checks, taxes paid, etc.), but they must exit the country. These immigrants would be fingerprinted and processed through US-VISIT at a land port of entry for return into the United States. After no less than eleven years, they could become citizens. * Illegal immigrants who have been in the country less than two years would be required to leave the United States. They could apply for temporary worker status, but would not be guaranteed to receive this status. “For illegal immigrants in the United States more than two years, the Senate bill is similar to a plea bargain,” said Graham. “They will have to come out of the shadows and acknowledge they came to the United States in violation of our immigration laws. The terms of probation will be to pay $2,000 in fines, undergo two national security and criminal background checks, remain employed, pay all federal and state taxes, register for military service, show proficiency in the English language and understand American civics.” “I think the terms of the probation are strict but fair,” said Graham. “Some immigrants will meet the terms of their probation and some won’t. Those who don’t will face deportation. Those who do will then be able to go to the back of the line to apply for citizenship. We made the conditions strict to ensure people pay their debt to society and they do the right thing if they wish to live in the United States.” The legislation retains the language on border enforcement and worker verification which Graham acknowledged were major provisions to enforce any immigration reform effort. Graham noted that one new provision was particularly important. It says that employers cannot offer a job to a guest worker until they verify the position was publicly listed at the prevailing wage and no American wanted to fill the position. This will help address concerns that guest workers will take jobs from Americans or depress wages in an area. “I’m pleased the Senate has chosen to come together, along with President Bush, to provide a comprehensive solution to the immigration problems facing our nation,” said Graham. “This problem has been neglected for too long. We need to secure our border and reform our immigration system now. We still have more work to do, but with President Bush’s support I believe this can become law.” The bill also contains provisions toughening the physical enforcement of the border by construction of a ‘virtual’ fence which relies on cameras, motion detectors and other technological devices to monitor illegal crossings into the United States. In certain high traffic areas, a real fence would be similar to the San Diego Border Fence, a state-of-the-art nearly impenetrable barrier which made illegal entry into our nation much more difficult, will be constructed. In addition, the legislation calls for the hiring of an additional 12,000 additional Border Patrol agents over the next five years. “The nation clearly has broken borders,” said Graham. “With this comprehensive immigration bill, the nation no longer has a broken Senate.” #####
04.05.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Bull Swamp Rural Water Company will receive a $157,000 grant and $293,000 loan for water system improvements in Woodford. The funds will be used to replace 9,300 linear feet of cement pipe with PVC pipe. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
04.05.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced St. James-Santee Family Health Center in McClellanville will receive a $1,164,237 Community Health Center grant. In addition to the main location, the health center operates a clinic in Georgetown. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
04.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $1.7 million in grants to five airports in South Carolina. Clarendon Clarendon County will receive a $60,000 grant to identify future airport needs and update the airport layout plan. Greenville Greenville County and the City of Greenville will receive a $42,989 grant to identify future airport needs and update the airport layout plan. Jasper Jasper County will receive a $169,100 grant to design the rehabilitation of a runway and conduct an environmental assessment. Spartanburg The City of Spartanburg will receive a $611,000 grant to install perimeter fencing and remove approach obstructions. Williamsburg Williamsburg County will receive an $868,300 grant for taxiway construction. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
03.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on a censure of President Bush. “A censure of President Bush is unwarranted and unjustified. Censure would have the affect of destroying a vital and necessary national security program allowing us to monitor the enemy. To equate President Bush’s terrorist surveillance program with Watergate or President Clinton’s actions in a civil lawsuit is absurd. “The legal issues surrounding the NSA wiretapping issue are complex and very much unsettled. While I disagree with some of the Administrations legal positions, it is clear the White House is advocating a legal doctrine supported by past Presidents and one which has been subject to healthy legal debate. “The censure resolution, regardless of motive, will diminish the power of future Presidents because it could result in a President being politically punished because they disagreed with some members of Congress on the law. If the Senate votes on the censure resolution, I believe the sponsors will be fortunate to get a handful of votes.” #####
03.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina will receive a $20,521,015 grant for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in the state. The funds, awarded under the Ryan White Title II Formula Grants Program, can be used to provide a variety of services to low-income individuals and families living with HIV/AIDS. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
03.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- After returning from a week long visit to China to evaluate the Chinese government’s willingness to freely float its currency, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Charles Schumer (D-New York) today announced that they would agree to delay a vote on their Chinese currency bill to no later than September 29 and, if the pace of currency reform slows before that date, the Senators would be able to call their bill up for a vote sooner. The Senators also met today with Treasury Secretary John Snow to discuss their visit to China and their pending legislation. “China’s currency is undervalued and this hurts American manufacturing,” said Graham. “The three percent revaluation since our bill was introduced is a good start, but I’m not totally convinced it represents real reform. My message to the Chinese was the status quo is devastating to American manufacturers and they need to embrace reform by over time allowing their currency to float. The small progress we have seen needs to continue. I’m willing to abandon the need for tariffs if the Chinese embark on real reform. We’re not there yet.” “We came back from China with a real feeling that the Chinese realized that pegging their currency is not only bad for America, but bad for China as well,” Schumer said. “We hope there will be real movement in the coming months.” During their trip, the Senators visited Beijing, Shanghai, and Hong Kong and met with key government and financial leaders. The Schumer-Graham legislation allows for a 180-day negotiation period between the United States and China on currency revaluation; and, if the negotiations are not successful, a temporary across the board tariff of 27.5 percent will be applied to all Chinese products entering the United States. The bill received 67 votes on a procedural vote last April. ######
03.28.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the resignation of Andy Card as White House Chief of Staff. “Andy served our President well and we should all be appreciative of his loyal and committed service. Serving as White House Chief of Staff is one of the most demanding jobs in government. As the second longest-serving White House Chief of Staff in history, Andy handled the position and its demands with grace. “As a graduate of the University of the South Carolina, Andy was very familiar with the political landscape of our state. He was also very helpful in meeting the needs of our state’s congressional delegation. I personally appreciate all he has done for South Carolina. I have nothing but high regard for him on both a personal and professional level. He will be greatly missed.” ####
03.27.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said the Senate Judiciary Committee has completed its work on comprehensive immigration reform. The vote in committee was 12-6 with Graham voting in support. The Committee had completed work on the sections of the bill toughening protection of the border making it tougher for illegal immigrants to enter the United States. Today, the committee worked on how to handle the estimated eleven million illegal immigrants currently in the United States. “The Senate’s first step in comprehensive immigration reform was to physically tighten protection of the southern border,” said Graham. “In committee, we have created a virtual fence along parts of our southern border which relies on cameras, motion detectors and other technological devices to keep people from entering the United States illegally. While many issues surrounding immigration reform are contentious, there is broad agreement among Republicans and Democrats that maintaining the status quo along the southern border is simply unacceptable.” Graham expressed support for a real fence where practical. It would be similar to the San Diego Border Fence, a state-of-the-art nearly impenetrable barrier which made illegal entry into our nation much more difficult. The San Diego area was once a haven for illegal crossings but the Border Fence nearly stopped the flood of border crossings from Mexico into the area. Unfortunately, there is not enough support in the Senate Judiciary Committee for construction of a Border Fence. “Today we moved on to the next phase of immigration reform and that’s what to do with the estimated eleven million immigrants who are already in the United States,” said Graham. “We have to come to grips with the fact that we have eleven million undocumented people in the country right now. The idea of telling them to go home and come back later is unrealistic. It would also cost $40 billion a year to deport all illegal immigrants currently in the United States.” “The guest worker program which passed the committee would allow immigrants to come out of the shadows, undergo a comprehensive background check, pay a fine, pay their back taxes, and then work in the United States,” said Graham. “It’s a process which will make our nation more secure by helping kick out the bad apples, allowing those who wish to work to continue doing so and benefit our national economy.” The process for an immigrant who entered the country illegally to continue working includes an assortment of fines, background checks, employment verification, and education in civics and English. “Amnesty grants immigrants immediate citizenship and that’s why I oppose amnesty,” said Graham. “Anyone trying to become a citizen under the guest-worker program must meet very strict criteria over an eleven year period. Ronald Reagan, one of our greatest presidents, tried amnesty and it failed. We should not repeat that mistake.” To receive a work visa, illegal immigrants would be forced to: 1) Register with the government or face deportation. 2) Pay a $1,000 fine. 3) Undergo an extensive and comprehensive background check to ensure they do not have a criminal record or pose a danger to society. 4) Show proof of employment. 5) Continue to remain employed while in the United States. Lack of employment longer than 45 days results in deportation. After six years of work in the United States, they could apply for a second five year extension. Immigrants would be forced to: 6) Pay another $1,000 fine. 7) Undergo a second comprehensive background check to ensure they do not have a criminal record or pose a danger to society. 8) Pay any back taxes. 9) Attend a class on American civics. 10) Learn to speak English. 11) Upon completion of these requirements, they would go to the back of the line to apply for permanent resident alien status. 12) After another five years (a total of 11 years after first registering) they would be eligible to apply to become an American citizen. Graham noted that while President Bush has not endorsed a specific guest worker plan, the proposal passed by the committee today is similar to what the President has discussed. “In some ways, we’re hypocritical as a nation,” said Graham. “We want the benefit of the labor, but we haven’t come to grips with how they should be allowed into the country. There are many industries in South Carolina and across the country which are dependent upon this workforce.” ###### Immigration Reform and a Guest Worker Program Question: Is this amnesty? Answer: No. An amnesty proposal would grant illegal immigrants an automatic pardon and put on the fast-track to citizenship. On the contrary, this reform penalizes them for coming to the United States illegally. The bill requires undocumented workers to come forward and register with the government. They will be required to pay a substantial fine– a total of $2,000 – to participate in the temporary worker program. They will have to meet a prospective work requirement – six more years on the job – before they can apply for a permanent visa. Only those who can prove that they are learning English and who have gone through rigorous criminal background checks and security screenings will be permitted to apply. No one will be granted automatic permanent resident status, nor will they permitted to “jump the line” ahead of those who are waiting to enter through a legal process. In fact, they will be sent to the back of the line. Question: Why do we need a guest worker program? Answer: Our broken immigration system doesn’t work. The current immigration system provides so few legal channels for foreign workers that it all but guarantees an illegal flow. Businesses can’t find the labor they need forcing entire industries to operate on the wrong side of the law. Millions of foreign workers live in the country illegally today. It’s a nightmare for them, an affront to the rule of law and an unacceptable security risk for all Americans. Question: Will a guest worker proposal enhance our national security? Answer: A guest worker program enhances security within the United States by encouraging millions of currently undocumented workers to come forward and register with the government. Registering will help shrink and eventually eliminate the undocumented population. This will help dry up the smuggling trade and put document forgers out of business. In the process it also deprives would-be terrorists of the illegal support system they could exploit in immigrant communities. Question: Don’t temporary or guest workers undercut American workers by taking their jobs? Answer: No. As study after study of the labor market shows, American workers don’t generally compete with immigrants – they don’t generally want the low-paying, low-skilled jobs that immigrant workers come to fill. Our native-born work force is getting older and our birth rates are falling. As a nation we are more and more educated. In 1960, half of all American men dropped out of high school and went into the unskilled labor force. Today only 10 percent of the native-born drop out. And few American families now raise their children to be busboys or to work out in the fields. Furthermore, the comprehensive immigration reform before the Senate Judiciary Committee includes a variety of measures designed to protect U.S. workers. The legislation mandates that employers who are considering hiring an immigrant worker must first try to hire a U.S. worker, advertising all available jobs for two weeks on an electronic job registry. That registry will be accessible on the web to an interested U.S. worker, and the Department of Labor will circulate it to public employment services across the country. After three years – and every three years after that - employers will also be required to re-advertise the jobs held by temporary workers, guaranteeing that immigrants are not displacing Americans who are qualified and available to fill the same jobs. Finally, employers will be prohibited from hiring foreigners to replace striking workers or those who have been recently fired. Question: Won’t a guest worker program lead to more illegal immigration? Answer: No. The goal of the bill is to replace the current illegal flow with legal workers by giving the foreign workers our economy needs a safe, orderly, legal way to enter the country. Once every available job is filled by an authorized worker, and it is impossible – as it will be under this program – to get work without a valid visa, there will be much less incentive for other migrants to cross the border illegally. Far fewer employers will need to resort to illegal workers, and those who do – the truly unscrupulous, exploitative minority – can be targeted with enforcement and tough new penalties. #####
03.24.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Greenville-Spartanburg Airport Commission will receive a $2,974,488 grant for improvements at Greenville-Spartanburg International Airport. “South Carolina’s airports are a vital part of our state’s transportation infrastructure and play an integral role in our economy,” said Graham. “These improvements will help recruit future investment and economic development.” "This is a clear indication that the FAA understands the importance of the Greenville-Spartanburg airport in the midst of a very competitive environment nationally for funds," said Senator DeMint. "This funding will provide for improvements to the airport’s infrastructure including access roads and the terminal building." The funds will be used to complete construction of a new interstate interchange, replace the slab on the air carrier apron, replace regulators in the airfield lighting system, replace a portion of the terminal roof, and upgrade the fuel storage and dispensing facilities. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
03.24.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $7.1 million dollars for criminal justice programs in South Carolina. The South Carolina Department of Public Safety will receive a $3,610,292 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant. The funds will be used in a cooperative effort among federal, state, and local agencies to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the criminal justice system. The money can be used for programs in law enforcement; prosecution; prevention and education; corrections; drug treatment; or planning, evaluation, and technology improvement. The South Carolina Office of Victim Assistance will receive a $3,543,000 Victims of Crime Act Compensation Grant to enhance compensation payments to eligible victims. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
03.20.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham's (R-South Carolina) budget amendment to restore the full funding of $27 million to keep Project Seahawk operating at the Port of Charleston has unanimously passed the Senate. “Project Seahawk is on the cutting edge in how we should address the security problems facing our ports,” said Graham. Graham noted this was the first step in securing full funding for Project Seahawk and the budget process is far from complete. “The U.S. Senate is on record in full support of Project Seahawk,” said Graham. “This is a solid statement as we enter the appropriations process, and I am committed to working with my colleagues to keep the program fully funded. Project Seahawk is not only important to Charleston, but the nation as a whole.” The Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution must now be passed by the U.S. House of Representatives. ####
03.16.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Today, Senators Mike DeWine (R-OH), Lindsey Graham (R-SC), Chuck Hagel (R-NE), and Olympia Snowe (R-ME) introduced the Terrorist Surveillance Act of 2006, a measure that would provide a statutory framework, with congressional and judicial oversight for the President to conduct electronic surveillance on the international communications of suspected terrorists, while protecting the rights and liberties of American citizens. “As the President has said, when terrorists call the United States, we want to know who they’re talking to. This bill gives the President the limited authority to do just that,” said Senator DeWine, a member of both the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence and the Senate Judiciary Committee. “It does not, however, give the President a blank check. The Terrorist Surveillance Act authorizes a limited, but necessary, program. It requires the President to go to court as soon as possible. And, it establishes an unprecedented Subcommittee with the power to oversee this program and protect the rights and liberties of American citizens.” “My goal is to ensure the spying program, which has been effective and vital to our national security, is able to continue by ensuring we have the appropriate checks and balances in place,” said Senator Graham. “I believe our legislation strikes that balance and will allow us to continue monitoring the enemy while protecting the rights of American citizens.” “As communications technology and the terrorist threat evolve, we must ensure the security of the nation by updating our laws. This legislation creates a 21st century law to address 21st century threats," said Senator Hagel, a member of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. "We cannot lose our focus on national security. But we must not forget the critical roll that the legislative and judicial branches play in the governance of this nation. This bill ensures substantive Congressional oversight and reinforces the authority of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court.” “Today, I join with my colleagues – Senators DeWine, Graham and Hagel – in introducing legislation to bring the NSA’s surveillance program out of the shadows by reasserting the necessary constitutional checks and balances that both the legislative and judicial branches government have over the Executive. Information is the bedrock of this legislation. The more we learn about the NSA program, the better we are able to adopt measures necessary to protect our treasured constitutional rights without sacrificing our safety as a nation. This legislation is the first of many steps, but one that is critical to safeguarding our security and freedom,” said Senator Snowe. Under the Terrorist Surveillance Act, the President is given the limited authority to conduct surveillance of the international communications of terrorists for 45 days. To engage in such surveillance, the President must have probable cause to believe that the target of surveillance is a member of or affiliated with a terrorist organization. And, he must believe that the surveillance is necessary to protect the United States from a terrorist attack. Under the bill, the President is permitted to reauthorize the Terrorist Surveillance Program every 45 days. To ensure that the President does not overstep his limited authority, the Terrorist Surveillance Act adds important safeguards to current law to protect the rights and liberties of ordinary Americans. The bill mandates that the President obtain a warrant for surveillance on a suspected terrorist once he has sufficient evidence to do so. For those unusual cases where the President does not have sufficient evidence to obtain a court order, but still wishes to conduct surveillance on a suspect, the bill requires that the Attorney General certify, under oath, that continued surveillance is necessary to protect the United States. Finally, the bill establishes a Terrorist Surveillance Subcommittee within the Senate Intelligence Committee with the exclusive jurisdiction to oversee and monitor the details of the Terrorist Surveillance Program. That Subcommittee is empowered to obtain any and all information about the surveillance of any individual in order to ensure that the President is not abusing the rights of law-abiding Americans. #### Terrorist Surveillance Act of 2006 DeWine, Graham, Hagel, Snowe The Terrorist Surveillance Act provides limited statutory authority to the President to conduct electronic surveillance of suspected terrorists in the United States, greatly enhances Congressional oversight of the Terrorist Surveillance Program, and requires that electronic surveillance be conducted under FISA when the President has sufficient evidence to do so. Authorizes the President to conduct an electronic surveillance program, without court order, for up to 45 days, provided that -- The President determines that the surveillance is necessary to protect the United States, its citizens, or its interests; Protections are in place to ensure that the program is reasonably designed to acquire only international communications; There is probable cause to believe that at least one party to a communication is a member of, affiliated with, or working in support of a terrorist organization. The President must submit a list of designated terrorist organizations at least annually; and Minimization procedures are in place to limit the acquisition, retention and use of non-public information about U.S. persons. Requires Program Review and Reauthorization Every 45 Days Every 45 days, the Attorney General must review the program and certify in writing and under oath whether the program meets the requirements set forth by Congress; The President may then reauthorize the program for another 45 day period, but only if he determines that the program remains necessary to protect the United States, its citizens, or its interests. The Attorney General must provide notice of the decision to continue or terminate the program to the congressional intelligence committees within 72 hours. Requires Review of Surveillance of Individual Targets Every 45 Days Every 45 days, the Attorney General must also review the surveillance of any individual targets under the program. If, at any time, the Attorney General determines that he has sufficient evidence to obtain a FISA warrant, he must seek a FISA warrant to continue surveillance on that target. If the Attorney General determines that he does not have sufficient evidence to obtain a FISA warrant, but nonetheless wants to continue surveillance, then he must certify in writing and under oath to the Terrorist Surveillance Subcommittees the following four things: 1) that all previous surveillance complied with this Act; 2) that there is insufficient evidence to obtain a warrant under FISA; 3) that the President has determined that continued surveillance of the target without a court order is necessary to protect the United States, its citizens, or its interests; and 4) that continued surveillance is being undertaken in a good faith belief that it will result in the acquisition of foreign intelligence information. No target may be subject to surveillance beyond the 45-day reauthorization period unless the Attorney General obtains a FISA warrant or files a certification, in writing and under oath, with the Terrorist Surveillance Subcommittees. Regular, Ongoing, and Vigorous Oversight of Terrorist Surveillance Program The Act calls for the creation of Terrorist Surveillance Subcommittees within both the House and Senate Intelligence Committees. To ensure confidentiality of the Terrorist Surveillance Program, these Subcommittees, along with bipartisan congressional leadership, will have sole oversight responsibilities of this program. The President must submit information on the management and operational details of the Terrorist Surveillance Program generally and any specific surveillance conducted by this program whenever requested by the Subcommittees. Every 6 months, the President must also submit a report to the Subcommittees, which, among other things, will include: 1) A complete discussion of the management, operational details, effectiveness, and necessity of the program and all electronic surveillance conduced under the program during the 6 month period; 2) Total number of United States persons targeted for electronic surveillance; 3) For any targets subject to surveillance for longer than 45 days, an explanation why the target was subject to continued surveillance without a FISA warrant; and 4) A description of the nature of the information sought under the program, the types of communications subject to the program and whether the information could have been reasonably obtained by less intrusive investigative techniques. Program Sunset: 5 years Enhanced penalties for disclosure of classified information related to the Terrorist Surveillance Program Maximum fine of $1 million and/or 15 years in prison. This provision does not apply to journalists. ###
03.16.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) today unveiled bipartisan legislation to limit campaign fundraising for incumbent Senators. Specifically, the Senate Campaign Reform Act of 2006 would change Senate rules to prohibit Senators and their staffs from fundraising for re-election before the eighteen months prior to the date of the next general election for that office. Amidst a culture of lobbying reform and scandals involving money in politics, the Wyden-Graham legislation seeks to reform Senate rules to allow Senators to spend more time and energy on their official government work. “Our proposal aims to not just treat the symptoms of scandal and corruption; it aims to cure the overall disease wrought by money in politics and lets senators return to spending the majority of the people’s time on the people's business,” said Wyden. “Today in the Senate, after an election is held the first Tuesday in November, people sleep in on Wednesday, and then the fundraising chase starts all over again on Thursday. Under this proposal Senators will go from raising campaign money all six years of their six year term down to eighteen months. Shorter campaigns will result in less partisanship, less scandal, and more good government.” “Unfortunately, Senators find that too much of our time is diverted to fundraising,” said Graham. “Our legislation allows every Senator to focus on their job for the first four of their six year terms and puts off the money chase till the end. Senators would spend more time legislating and conducting oversight on how tax dollars are spent, and less time acting as perpetual candidates. Everyone would be in the same boat and the rule would apply to all Senators equally. It would make the Senate a much different place.” Under the bipartisan Wyden-Graham proposal, the Senate rules would be changed to prohibit sitting Senators from making any efforts, personally or through senate or campaign staff, to amass funds or pledges of funds, for a Senate re-election campaign or leadership PAC until the eighteen months immediately before a general election. During this time period, it would also make it impossible for unsolicited funds to be contributed to a re-election campaign fund. The prohibition under the Senate rules would be lifted once any other candidate for the same office raises or spends $100,000. The Wyden-Graham legislation has received statements of support from a number of public interest groups, including U.S.PIRG, Common Cause, and Democracy 21. Wyden and Graham are two of the Senate’s leading advocates of substantive campaign finance reform. In 2004, the two Senators introduced legislation to make candidates for Federal office take more explicit personal responsibility for ads on the Internet, in print or in prerecorded phone calls referring directly to the candidate's opponent. The Political Candidate Personal Responsibility Act of 2004 followed Wyden's original “Stand by Your Ad” provision on which current accountability rules for TV and radio ads are based. ###
03.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Charles E. Schumer (D-New York) today announced they will visit China next week along Senator Tom Coburn (R-Oklahoma). “The trade deficit between China and the United States is unhealthy,” said Graham. “We’re going to let the Chinese government know their business practices are causing problems in our relationship. Whether its currency manipulation, theft of intellectual property, or other issues, there’s no doubt that Chinese trade practices are taking a toll. For China to be a respected member of the international community, they must reform their business practices.” Schumer said, “We are going to China next week because this is a critical time for global trade and our relationship with the world’s most populous and fastest growing country. Today, we have the largest trade deficit in history with China. If China is to be a player in the world economy, they must play by the rules every other country has to play by. I want to be clear about one thing: Lindsey Graham and I are not protectionists. We are pursuing the currency issue so strongly because it’s our view that if you believe in free trade, then the biggest economies in the world have to play fair and abide by the rules of the game. We hope we are given some reason to be hopeful that China will revalue its currency and play by the rules while we are there.” “With well over one billion citizens, China can be a large market for American manufacturers to sell their products,” said Graham. “However, if we are to realize the potential of this emerging market, we must have a comprehensive strategy to deal with China. This includes mechanisms to ensure that the Chinese play by the rules.” Graham and Schumer have been promised a vote on their bipartisan bill to encourage China to revalue its currency by the end of March. ####
03.14.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the U.S. Senate has unanimously confirmed Edwin ‘Ed’ Foulke of Greenville for the position of Assistant Secretary of Labor for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA.) A Greenville resident, Foulke is an accomplished labor law attorney, who boasts a wealth of knowledge and experience in occupational safety and health related legal issues. He has served with distinction for over fifteen years as a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRC) and is a natural fit for this important post. “All South Carolinians should be proud that President Bush selected Ed and he was unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate,” said Graham. “This is a very important job for the American workforce and business community. We need someone with his talents at OSHA to oversee worker safety and ensure the government regulations placed on businesses meet the common-sense test. I strongly supported his nomination and know he will serve our nation well in this position.” “South Carolinians can all take pride in Ed Foulke's successful confirmation," said Senator DeMint. "I'm confident he has the common sense and experience to take the lead at OSHA. Throughout this process, Ed has proved he will serve our nation well. He's a man of principle and integrity that will be an important ally of American workers and businesses." A graduate of Loyola University (New Orleans) School of Law, Foulke was a partner with Jackson, Lewis, Schnitzler & Krupman practicing out of the firm’s Greenville and Washington offices. He is admitted to practice in South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, the District of Columbia, the Fourth, Eleventh, and District of Columbia Federal Circuit Courts of Appeal as well as the United States Supreme Court. In addition to publishing extensively on a number of topics related to employment and labor law, Foulke has guest lectured for several Universities and business organizations. He also holds a LLM Masters in Law from Georgetown University Law Center in Washington. #####
03.13.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on a resolution offered by Senator Russ Feingold (D-Wisconsin) to censure President Bush for the NSA wiretapping program. “The censure resolution smacks of a political stunt at a time when we need serious and thoughtful discussions about how to succeed in the War on Terror. While I disagree with some of the legal arguments put forth by the Administration, the law in this area is evolving and less-than-settled. “A censure resolution would do tremendous damage to the President’s standing during a time of war. Based on the facts and law, it is not justified.” #####
03.10.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced community health centers in Spartanburg and Timmonsville will receive Community Health Center grants totaling more than $1.19 million. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. Spartanburg ReGenesis, Inc. will receive a $508,543 grant to support health services. Timmonsville Black River Healthcare, Inc. will receive a $684,750 grant to open a new satellite facility in Timmonsville. Black River is headquartered in Manning and has satellite facilities in Greelyville, Kingstree, and Olanta. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
03.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the recent statistics showing the South Carolina unemployment rate has dropped a full percentage point down to 6.2 percent. “The dramatic drop in our unemployment rate is a sign of things to come as state government continues to provide incentives for businesses to locate and grow here. “There’s no doubt Governor Sanford’s effort to bring about government reform and restructuring is beginning to pay dividends. With the prospects of further tax cuts and spending controls, the outlook for greater employment opportunities in South Carolina in the coming months is very bright.” #####
03.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said the Senate Judiciary Committee’s ongoing work on comprehensive immigration reform will hopefully pay dividends in helping to eliminate illegal crossings on our nation’s southern border. “The first issue to address in immigration reform is border security,” said Graham. “Without strong physical border security no immigration reform will be successful in stopping the flood of illegal crossings. The porous nature of our border doesn’t just pose immigration problems, but national security ones as well.” The Judiciary Committee has discussed whether to create a real or virtual fence along the United States-Mexico border. A virtual fence would rely on cameras, motion detectors and other technological devices to monitor illegal crossings into the United States. A real fence would be similar to the San Diego Border Fence, a state-of-the-art nearly impenetrable barrier which made illegal entry into our nation much more difficult. The San Diego area was once a haven for illegal crossings but the Border Fence nearly stopped the flood of border crossings from Mexico into the area. “The Border Fence has worked in California and I’m ready to expand it to protect additional miles of our border,” said Graham. “It would cost an estimated $5 billion to construct, but that is a small price to pay when it comes to protecting our national security and relieving the pressure we face from a tidal wave of illegal immigration. Unfortunately, I have serious doubts about whether there is enough support in the Senate today for construction of a Border Fence. “The committee has already agreed to increase the use of technology and passed an amendment I authored that would that would allow more Border Patrol agents with military backgrounds to enforce our nation’s borders,” said Graham. “Due to modernization, in the coming years we’re expected to have a reduced number of people serving in some areas of the military. These veterans, with years of military experience and training, are excellent candidates to serve in an expanded Border Patrol.” “While many issues surrounding immigration reform are contentious, there is broad agreement among many Republicans and Democrats that maintaining the status quo along the border is simply unacceptable,” concluded Graham. Next week the committee will continue to work on the best way to increase security along our nation’s southern border. #####
03.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint, along with Congressman Henry Brown, today announced Myrtle Beach International Airport will receive two grants totaling $7.7 million. The first $4 million grant is the first installment of a $43 million grant announced in January. The funds will be used for design and construction of approximately 172,000 square yards of terminal apron and taxiway. The apron is designed to accommodate 14 aircraft parking positions for all types of passenger aircraft expected at the airport through 2020. The second grant of $3.703 million will continue the design and construction of the new terminal building and access road as well as the newly relocated terminal area development. “I’m pleased we were able to help Myrtle Beach Airport receive these federal funds,” said Graham. “We must continue to build the necessary infrastructure to allow the airport to grow. Air travel is very important to Myrtle Beach and the tourism economy. People love visiting Myrtle Beach and the more convenient we can make it to get there the better.” “These grants will help provide one of the vital pieces of the puzzle making Myrtle Beach international a world class airport,” said DeMint. “The economic growth that will result is well worth these investments.” “This is great news for Myrtle Beach and the entire Grand Strand,” said Brown. “Expansion of the Myrtle Beach International Airport will offer greater opportunities for flight-related business ventures and improved avenues of access for air travelers.” The grant will be administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation. #####
03.08.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Greenville Technical College will receive two grants totaling $2 million for the construction of a new technology facility. The funds will help construct a new facility that will house medical and computer labs, and a culinary arts training kitchen. The grants will be paired with more than $11 million in local funds. According to figures from the U.S. Department of Commerce, the project is expected to create 1,500 jobs and generate $242 million in private investment. “South Carolina’s technical college system is a model for the nation,” said Graham. “Technical colleges play a vital role in developing our state’s economy by training the workforce of tomorrow. I appreciate what Greenville Tech is doing in the community and know the work they do today will help create a stronger, more diverse workforce for the future.” “Technical colleges are important in training our workforce with the skills needed for 21st century jobs and Greenville Tech is leading the way,” said DeMint. “I applaud their efforts to build this new facility and look forward to it benefiting future students.” Greenville Tech will receive a $1.5 million from the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Economic Development Administration and a $500,000 grant from the Appalachian Regional Commission. ####
03.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Department of Transportation will receive more than $652,000 for five projects across the state. Bohicket Scenic Highway- $34,760 Bohicket Scenic Highway (S-20) is located on Johns Island from S.C. 700 Southerly to the end of the road located near Kiawah Island. This project will provide funding to develop the Bohicket Road Corridor Management Plan. The plan will detail a number of ways to promote, develop, and protect the Bohicket Road Scenic Highway. The plan will inventory the historic, recreational, cultural, archeological and natural resources along the road in addition to addressing the ways in which nearby communities may wish to promote tourism and/or economic development. Cherokee Foothills National Scenic Highway- $493,672 The Greenville County project (intersection of U.S. 25 and S.C. 11) will fund the restoration of the Blythe-Goodwin-Hagood House for use as a welcome center and museum. The 220-year old home was an important way station for travelers. An adjacent building was also used as a provisioning stop and among the earliest post offices in the region. This National Register property has been unoccupied since 1985 and is threatened by neglect and approaching commercial development. The Cherokee Foothills National Scenic Byway Association, in partnership with Greenville County, has obtained a $200,000 grant from the state of South Carolina to acquire the property. Scenic Byway funds will be used to restore and adapt the property for the benefit of the traveling public. Cherokee Foothills National Scenic Highway-$25,000 This Pickens County project is located between the intersections of S.C. 8 and S.C. 178. The project will establish a second scenic pullout or small parking area for visitors wishing to stop and admire Table Rock. The funds will be used obtain the necessary right-of-way encroachment permits, construction costs, and description signage. Edisto Scenic Highway 174- $57,472 This project begins at the McKinley Washington Bridge in Charleston County, continues through Edisto Island into Colleton County, and ends at the Atlantic Ocean. This project will develop a Corridor Management Plan (CMP) for the State designated Edisto Scenic Highway 174. CMPs are the central tool used by byway leaders to organize activities, investments, and planning goals for the communities and partners supporting the byway. The roadway is within the ACE Basin USFWS Wildlife Refuge target area and adjacent to the ACE Basin National Estuarine Research Reserve. It is the major road access to the ACE Basin Interpretive Center and to Edisto Beach. The Edisto Island Open Land Trust (project manager) will partner with nearby Clemson University in the development of the CMP and will organize and work with all stakeholders in the community to achieve the goal of maintaining the intrinsic qualities of Edisto Scenic Highway 174. Beaufort County Scenic Highways Project- $41,200 This project is located in Beaufort County along S.C. 170 south of Edward Burton Rodgers to U.S. 278. The project will develop a CMP to unite 8 separate scenic highway segments into one system, to be conserved, enhanced and marketed to benefit both residents and visitors. They are located almost contiguously near environmental and historic resources in areas that have experienced major growth and change during the past decade. ####
03.02.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today praised Senate passage of the PATRIOT Act reauthorization. The vote in the Senate was 89-10. “The PATRIOT Act helps our intelligence and law enforcement agencies protect us from a vicious enemy. The tools it provides are necessary to help fight and win the War on Terror. “The legislation also strikes a good balance protecting the rights of individuals while protecting the security of our nation. I’m pleased the Senate passed the extension and look forward to President Bush signing it into law.” #####
03.02.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $13.9 million for seventeen airports throughout South Carolina. These funds were awarded by the Federal Aviation Administration to both major and general aviation airports following application submissions by the individual airports. “South Carolina’s airports are a vital part of our state’s transportation infrastructure and play an integral role in our economy,” said Graham. “These improvements will help recruit future investment and economic development.” "This funding is a clear indication that the FAA sees the worthiness of these important projects throughout South Carolina in the midst of a very competitive environment nationally for funds," said Senator DeMint. Aiken The City of Aiken will receive $403,750 for rehabilitation of the apron at Aiken Municipal Airport. Allendale Allendale County will receive $150,000 to install taxiway lighting at Allendale County Airport. Charleston Charleston County Aviation Authority will receive $3.8 million for apron expansion at Charleston Executive Airport, $2 million for improvements to the access road at Charleston AFB/International, and $1,391,750 replace runway and taxiway lighting, and expand the aircraft parking apron at East Cooper Airport. Columbia The Richland/Lexington Airport Commission will receive $3,045,424 for apron rehabilitation at Columbia Metropolitan Airport. Richland County will receive $150,000 to help pay for the construction of a new terminal at Columbia Owens Downtown Airport. Darlington Darlington County will receive $92,245 to rehabilitate a runway and design an expansion to the existing apron at the Darlington County Jetport. Greenville The City of Greenville will receive $775,000 for apron rehabilitation at Greenville Downtown Airport. Greenwood Greenwood County will receive $150,000 for hangar construction at Greenwood County Airport. Hartsville Hartsville will receive $110,675 to install perimeter fencing at Hartsville Regional Airport. Horry Horry County will receive $384,500 to acquire land within and adjacent to the runway protection zone and to remove obstructions from the approach path at Twin City Airport. Kershaw Kershaw County will receive $811,300 for taxiway construction at Woodward Field. Lee Lee County will receive $184,557 for runway extension at Lee County Airport. Marlboro Marlboro County will receive $213,750 to install taxiway lighting and design a taxiway rehabilitation plan at Marlboro County Jetport. Saluda Saluda County will receive $150,000 to install new runway lighting and remove obstructions from the approach path at Saluda County Airport. Walterboro Walterboro will receive $142,073 to design a new taxiway at Lowcountry Regional Airport. ####
02.17.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- Minutes before noon today, the U.S. Senate unanimously confirmed Reginald “Reggie” Lloyd to serve as U.S. Attorney for South Carolina. U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement following the confirmation vote. “With the Senate’s approval of Reggie Lloyd’s nomination, South Carolina will now have a permanent U.S. Attorney. The role of the U.S. Attorney is to vigorously enforce the laws of the land and protect our nation from foreign and domestic threats. “Reggie possesses both the character and legal experience necessary for this most important job. His experience as a judge and private attorney make him uniquely qualified. All South Carolinians should take pride in the fact we have someone of tremendous integrity, character, and experience serving in this position. I look forward to Reggie being sworn in and appreciate him for agreeing to serve our nation at this important time. “I also appreciate Majority Leader Bill Frist’s effort today to have Reggie confirmed on the last day before the President’s Day recess. Senator Frist went the extra mile to ensure his nomination would be approved.” #####
02.16.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the Senate Judiciary Committee approving the nomination of Reggie Lloyd to serve as U.S. Attorney for South Carolina. “I’m very pleased the Senate Judiciary Committee unanimously supported Reggie for this important position. I expect him to be confirmed by the full Senate very soon. “Reggie has impeccable legal credentials and is respected by Democrats and Republicans in Washington and at home. He brings a wealth of experience in private practice and government to the position. “Reggie is an aggressive protector of public safety and I have a great deal of confidence in his talents and abilities. He’s fair -minded and will serve our state and nation with distinction. “Our U.S. Attorney will face unique challenges as we fight the War on Terror and I know he is the right man for the job.” #####
02.15.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement in response to a question about Vice President Cheney’s recent hunting trip. “I have been hunting with Vice President Cheney on several occasions over the past few years and know him to be a skilled and safety-conscious hunter. “Unfortunately, hunting accidents occur, even among the most skilled hunters. The Vice President has accepted personal responsibility for this accident and I know this is something he deeply regrets. “Mr. Whittington and the Vice President have been friends for many years and I know Mr. Whittington’s personal privacy is a great concern to the Vice President. The Vice President knows the more he talks, the less privacy Mr. Whittington and his family will enjoy. “The constant second-guessing of what the Vice President should have said and when he should have said it is an unnecessary diversion from the many issues facing our nation.” #####
02.14.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the US-China Trade Relations Top-to-Bottom Review. “I appreciate USTR and the Bush Administration’s willingness to aggressively engage China on a variety of issues that are creating tension. Whether it's currency manipulation, intellectual property theft, counterfeit goods or human rights abuses, China is going backward rather than forward. China needs to adopt human rights and economic policies that are consistent with the international community. “With well over one billion citizens, China can be a large market for American manufacturers to sell their products. However, if we are to realize the potential of this emerging market, we must have a comprehensive strategy to deal with China. This includes mechanisms to ensure that the Chinese play by the rules. “As a body, the Congress is growing more frustrated with China’s retreat from fair economic policies and human rights. I hope this new engagement strategy by the Bush Administration will prove beneficial to our nation.” #####
02.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today joined with Senate colleagues to introduce the Pork Barrel Reduction Act (PBRA). “When I go home, one of the biggest criticisms I hear is ‘what are you doing up there with our money?’ said Graham. “This legislation will hopefully answer that question by opening up the budget process and making spending more transparent. I think the more people know, the less they’ll want us to spend.” Among the major provisions of PBRA: Requires full disclosure of any and all earmarks included in bills. The provision requires a detailed description of all earmarks, including the identity of the lawmaker seeking the earmark and the earmark’s purpose. Requires legislation to be filed and publicly available for at least 48 hours prior to floor consideration. This increases transparency and gives lawmakers, and the American public, time to review legislation before it receives a vote. Requires recipients of federal dollars to disclose the amount of money that they spend on lobbyists. This provision reduces the likelihood taxpayers will unknowingly fund lobbyists who are promoting wasteful earmarks and working against the interests of hard-working taxpayers. Creates a new point of order against unauthorized earmarks and policy riders. This point of order allows for the elimination of extraneous individual earmarks and policy riders. Under this provision, only the offending provision would be removed from the appropriations bill or conference report if a point of order was sustained, thus maintaining the integrity of the underlying bill. Prohibits federal agencies from spending money on items and earmarks that were only included in unamendable committee or conference reports. This provision requires that all earmarks and spending items be in bill text, allowing for amendment and debate. Strengthens current Senate rules against the conference report inclusion of matter not considered by the House or Senate. This provision prohibits consideration of conference reports containing matter not committed by either the House or Senate. Current rules allow for a point of order against reports with new matter, but many new provisions sneak by when they are attached to must-pass bills that can overcome the point of order. “In years past, we’ve had some spending items that have been embarrassing and some that just haven’t passed the smell test,” said Graham. “At the end of the day, knowledge is power and we’re giving the American people knowledge about what we’re doing with their money.” According to the Congressional Research Service, Congress passed 3,023 earmarks in 1996, costing taxpayers $19.5 billion. However, last year that number grew to 15,877 projects, costing taxpayers $47.4 billion. Graham was joined in introducing the legislation by U.S. Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Jim DeMint (R-SC), John Ensign (R-NV), Russ Feingold (D-WI), Jon Kyl (R-AZ), John McCain (R-AZ), John Sununu (R-NH). #####
02.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced he and Senator Byron Dorgan (D-North Dakota) will introduce a bill to revoke China’s Permanent Normal Trade Relations (PNTR) status. Since granting PNTR status in 2001, the U.S trade deficit with China has doubled to more than $200 billion last year. “This legislation is a reaction to the Chinese government’s economic and human rights policies that have only gotten worse – across the board – since they were given PNTR status,” said Graham. “On every front, China is marching backwards. They continue to violate normal business practices by manipulating their currency. They do not respect intellectual property to the detriment of the entrepreneurs of the world.” Graham noted the Chinese government forcing companies based in the United States to help restrict Internet access as a cost of doing business in the country as one further example of government oppression and economic manipulation. “The Chinese are policing Internet services provided by American companies and as a result of this practice, Chinese citizens have been jailed,” said Graham. “The tipping point was when the Chinese seized email and sentenced a reporter to ten years in prison. On all fronts, China is engaging in practices that could not reasonably be considered normal within the international community.” The Graham bill would require Congress to grant normal trade relations status to China on an annual basis. ####
02.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON - U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Pee Dee Healthy Start in Florence will receive a $750,000 grant to eliminate disparities in perinatal health. The Healthy Start Initiative develops and implements strategies to eliminate factors contributing to infant mortality, low birth weight, and other adverse outcomes. Healthy Start forms coalitions with health care providers, businesses, and public and private organizations to address these issues. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
02.07.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced New Horizon Family Health Services in Greenville will receive a $2,386,357 Community Health Center grant. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
02.02.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Eau Claire Cooperative Health Center in Columbia will receive a $1,095,557 grant. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
02.01.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today said they support Edwin ‘Ed’ Foulke of Greenville for the position of Assistant Secretary of Labor for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA.) A Greenville resident, Foulke is an accomplished labor law attorney, who boasts a wealth of knowledge and experience in occupational safety and health related legal issues. He has served with distinction for over fifteen years as a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (OSHRC) and is a natural fit for this important post. Foulke yesterday went before the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee to answer questions from Senators. “All South Carolinians should be proud that President Bush has selected Ed for this position,” said Graham. “This is a very important job for the American workforce and business community. We need someone with his talents at OSHA to oversee worker safety and ensure the government regulations placed on businesses meet the common-sense test. I support his nomination and know he will serve our nation well in this position.” “Ed Foulke has long served South Carolina, and I'm confident he has the intellect and experience to take the lead at OSHA,” said Senator DeMint. “I have come to know Ed as a man of integrity and principle, traits that will serve our nation well. The conclusion of Ed’s positive nomination hearing is a win for American workers and businesses. I look forward to his confirmation.” A graduate of Loyola University (New Orleans) School of Law, Foulke is currently a partner with Jackson, Lewis, Schnitzler & Krupman practicing out of the firm’s Greenville and Washington offices. He is admitted to practice in South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, the District of Columbia, the Fourth, Eleventh, and District of Columbia Federal Circuit Courts of Appeal as well as the United States Supreme Court. In addition to publishing extensively on a number of topics related to employment and labor law, Foulke has guest lectured for several Universities and business organizations. He also holds a LLM Masters in Law from Georgetown University Law Center in Washington. #####
01.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5927 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the death of Coretta Scott King. “All Americans should celebrate a life well-lived. “Mrs. King was a strong voice for economic and social justice. She was a pioneer of the civil rights movement who stood on her own as one of the most effective voices in America expressing equality for all. She was a brave woman who held firm to her beliefs during some of America’s most difficult days. Her courage in standing for the idea of justice for all will be an inspiration for future generations of Americans. “Mrs. King has rightfully earned her place in history as a great American.” #####
01.31.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made this statement after Justice Samuel Alito was confirmed to the Supreme Court. Graham supported the nomination in the Senate Judiciary Committee and on the floor of the Senate. The vote today was 58-42 in support of Justice Alito. “It is a great day for the Supreme Court and a great day for the country. “Justice Alito is one of the most qualified nominees to ever come before the Senate. He is very much a mainstream conservative and will serve on the Supreme Court with distinction. His conservative judicial philosophy will have an impact on the Court for decades to come. “Justice Alito has fifteen years of judicial experience on the federal bench and has received rave reviews from every corner of the legal community. The American Bar Association rated him unanimously as well-qualified, their highest rating for a position on the Supreme Court. People who work with him, even those who disagree with him, say he is a kind, decent man who is a judge’s judge. “President Bush chose well when he nominated Justice Alito for this important position. I’m very pleased the Senate has now confirmed him to a lifetime appointment on the Supreme Court.” ######
01.27.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the University of South Carolina Research Foundation will receive $150,000 per year over the next three years for research into the development of fuel for the next generation of nuclear reactors. “We must continue to expand our research and development efforts in nuclear energy,” said Graham. “Nuclear power is a clean source of energy that has been safely providing power to South Carolina for decades. I am pleased our state’s research institutions are playing a leading role in the development of next-generation energy technology.” The three-year project is a partnership between the USC and the Savannah River National Lab. This project was one of eight to receive funding under this program out of 160 applicants. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. ####
01.27.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Ben Nelson (D-Nebraska) yesterday introduced a bipartisan resolution supporting the National Guard and requesting the Department of Defense seek input from Congress and governors when deciding future changes to National Guard personnel and calling on the Pentagon to resolve equipment shortages. Graham and Nelson are the Chairman and Ranking Member, respectively, of the Senate Armed Services Personnel Subcommittee. “At this crucial time in our nation’s history, we are more dependent on the National Guard than ever,” said U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). “Now is not the time to diminish the role the reserves play in the American military. I look forward to working with Senator Nelson, who has been a good friend to the National Guard, to ensure our reserve forces are properly structured.” “The members of our National Guard aren’t ‘weekend warriors,’” said Senator Nelson. “They’re indispensable citizen-soldiers, airmen and airwomen who serve their country full-time when needed, and in return, I expect the Department of Defense to fully support the National Guard missions here and around the world.” The National Guard has a unique role in defending the nation. Guard troops have a dual responsibility: to the nation and to their home states. The Department of Defense is proposing cuts in personnel levels for the Guard and the Guard is plagued by significant shortages of critical equipment. The resolution calls for the Department of Defense to: Fully fund the equipment needs of the National Guard; Consult with Congress and the nation’s governors as soon as possible on any proposed changes to the National Guard force structure; Consider the National Guard’s role in homeland defense when considering the National Guard’s force structure; Create budget projections that detail cost savings from any National Guard force structure changes, as well as projected costs in the event large personnel increases are necessary to respond to a homeland defense emergency; Ensure Congress and our nation’s governors that potential personnel cuts will not impact the safety and security of the American people. The resolution arrives as the future of the National Guard is currently being determined by the upcoming Quadrennial Defense Review (QDR). Despite and as a result of their significant work, the National Guard continues to experience equipment shortages. Last November, Senators Nelson, Graham and 40 other senators from both political parties sent President Bush and Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld a letter urging them to fully fund the National Guard. The guard is experiencing equipment deficiencies all over the country including shortages of humvees, rough terrain trucks, over-the-road tractors, wreckers, semi-trailers, communication equipment, and weapon mounts for trucks. The resolution is supported by the National Guard Association of the United States. Also, current co-sponsors of the bipartisan resolution include Senators: Ben Nelson (NE), Lindsey Graham (SC), George Allen (VA), Jim Talent (MO), Elizabeth Dole (NC), Olympia Snowe (ME), Lisa Murkowski (AK), John Thune (SD), Johnny Isakson (GA), Mike DeWine (OH), Tim Johnson (SD), Richard Durbin (IL), Robert Menendez (NJ), Mary Landrieu (LA), Bill Nelson (FL), Tom Harkin (IA), Byron Dorgan (ND), Frank Lautenberg (NJ), Jeff Bingaman (NM), Daniel Akaka (HI), Max Baucus (MT), Hillary Clinton (NY), Herb Kohl (WI), Barbara Mikulski (AK), Evan Bayh (IN), Maria Cantwell (WA), Mark Pryor (AR), Ken Salazar (CO), Joseph Lieberman (CT), Joseph Biden (DE), Kent Conrad (ND), Edward Kennedy (MA), Russell Feingold (WI), Susan Collins (ME), Norm Coleman (MN), and Lamar Alexander (TN). ####
01.26.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the Palestinian elections. “If the election results hold and are considered legitimate, it will be a tremendous setback for the Middle East peace process. The hopes and dreams of the Palestinian people to live in an independent state with dignity and peace will never materialize as long as a terrorist organization is their voice. “The election results amount to a de-facto declaration of war by the Palestinian people against the state of Israel. It’s imperative our nation redouble its commitment to the state of Israel and cautiously evaluate any future assistance to a Palestinian regime governed by terrorists.” #####
01.25.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Clemson University will receive $1.5 million in funding for research into hydrogen as a fuel source. The Clemson grant is part of a larger $119 million package announced today by the Department of Energy. The focus of the funding is to create a “roadmap” aimed at identifying and overcoming the technical and manufacturing challenges associated with the further development of commercially available hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. “I’m pleased with today’s grant announcement from DOE,” said U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina). Graham serves as the co-chair of the Senate Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus. “Clemson University, and other research institutes across South Carolina, will play a prominent role in helping push hydrogen research forward. What Detroit was to the automotive industry, South Carolina can be to hydrogen.” “As a nation we need to become less dependent on foreign oil,” said Graham. “To help us achieve that goal, it’s my hope the next generation of automobiles will not be solely dependent on gasoline as a fuel source. It would be irresponsible if 50 years from now we’re still reliant on Middle Eastern oil to drive our national economy. We need to get away from fossil fuels and start looking at using different sources of energy such as hydrogen to power our automobiles. Today’s grant announcement is another step in the right direction.” Graham noted South Carolina is a leader in hydrogen research. The University of South Carolina is developing hydrogen fuel cells, Clemson is working on hydrogen vehicles and the Savannah River Site is a leading research facility in hydrogen storage and technology. In addition, these groups and others recently united behind the South Carolina Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Association which coordinates the state’s efforts to be a leading player in the emerging hydrogen economy. In addition to the grant announcement, DOE today also unveiled the Roadmap on Manufacturing R&D for the Hydrogen Economy. The 80-page document addresses challenges to manufacturing, storage and production of fuel cell technologies and proposes solutions to overcome such challenges, focusing primarily on near commercial technologies. #####
01.24.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement following the Senate Judiciary Committee vote on Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court. The vote in committee was 10-8. Senator Graham supported the nominee. “Judge Alito is one of the most historically qualified nominees to ever come before the Senate. He’s very much a mainstream conservative and will serve with distinction on the Supreme Court. I was proud to support his nomination in the Judiciary Committee and look forward to voting for him again on the Senate floor. “Judge Alito has fifteen years of judicial experience on the federal bench and has received rave reviews from every corner of the legal community. The American Bar Association rates him as unanimously well-qualified, their highest rating for a position on the Supreme Court. People who work with him, even those who disagree with him, say he is a kind, decent man who is a judge’s judge. “Chief Justice John Roberts received 50 percent of the Democratic caucus vote and he's one of the most stellar nominees in the history of the country. Judge Alito is one of the most well qualified nominees in 70 years and he'll be lucky to get a handful of Democratic senators. “It’s disappointing to see the Judiciary Committee break straight along party lines. Unfortunately, it appears Democratic Senators are listening to the liberal special interest groups who have spent millions of dollars attacking Judge Alito. What's going on with Judge Alito is not advising and consenting. It's about politics. And that does not bode well for the future of the judiciary.” #####
01.19.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) last week traveled to the Detroit Auto Show to meet with manufacturers and discuss South Carolina’s role in producing the next-generation automobile. Graham is a co-chair of the Senate Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus along with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND). Graham told automotive industry leaders that South Carolina is on the cutting-edge of hydrogen research and hydrogen holds the potential to be the new fuel of the 21st Century. In addition, Graham noted the environmental benefits of hydrogen as a clean source of energy. “What Detroit was to the automotive industry, South Carolina can be to hydrogen,” said Graham. “My message to the CEO’s was that as a nation we need to become less dependent on foreign oil. To help us achieve that goal, it’s my hope the next generation of automobiles will be hybrids not solely dependent on gasoline as a fuel source.” “It would be irresponsible if 50 years from now we’re still reliant on Middle Eastern oil to drive our national economy,” said Graham. “We need to get away from fossil fuels and start looking at using different sources of energy such as hydrogen to power our automobiles.” South Carolina is a national leader in hydrogen research. The University of South Carolina is developing hydrogen fuel cells, Clemson is working on hydrogen vehicles and the Savannah River Site is a leading research facility in hydrogen storage and technology. In addition, these groups and others recently united behind the South Carolina Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Association which coordinates the state’s efforts to be a leading player in the emerging hydrogen economy. “All the automobile manufacturers understood the importance of hybrid cars but right now there is no consensus in the industry on how they will develop,” said Graham. “Congress may need to assist this development by offering additional tax incentives and setting attainable standards for manufacturing. The future will be dominated by cars that don’t solely run on gasoline and the sooner we can make progress in that area the better.” #####
01.11.2006	SPECTER: Thank you, Senator Feingold. Senator Graham? GRAHAM: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Judge Alito, maybe we could continue with the Vanguard issue just for a moment. And I know you've been asked every conceivable combination of questions. But Senator Feingold is very sincere about ethics in government. He practices what he preaches and he's been one of the leaders of trying to make this place operate better. And my impression of you is that you're a good model for judges in terms of ethical conduct, based on what everybody says who knows you. I mean, I don't claim to be a close associate of yours, but the ABA has looked at this and said that it did not reflect poorly on you. Three hundred lawyers and judges who know you have said that you're just, really, sort of, what we want in a judge. And maybe that's not enough, but that's a pretty good start. I don't think you could get 300 people to say that about me or some of us. But the question I have -- the criminal prosecutor or lawyer in me has this question to ask -- why would you make a conscious decision not to recuse yourself? Why would Judge Alito sit down in the corner of a room and say, I think I've got a conflict, but I'm just going to let it go and hear the case anyway? I am baffled as to why you would make a conscious decision in this situation not to recuse yourself. Do you have an explanation? ALITO: There's no reason why I would make such a conscious decision. I had nothing whatsoever to gain by participating in this case and nobody has suggested that I did. This case involved some thousands of dollars. Vanguard manages billions of dollars of funds. The idea that the outcome of this case could have some effect on the mutual funds that I hold is beyond preposterous, and I don't understand anybody to have suggested anything like that. GRAHAM: Well, I've been asking myself that question quietly. What is in it for this guy? Why would he bring all this grief upon himself consciously? Is it to intentionally break a promise to the Senate so you'd go through hell for three days? I don't think so. (LAUGHTER) So I'm going to accept you at your word, like the ABA, and I'm going to move on. And I don't know if anybody else will. Now, your days at Princeton. The more I know about Princeton, it's an interesting place. (LAUGHTER) What is an eating society? ALITO: The eating clubs are privately owned facilities that upper classmen join for the purpose of taking their meals. The first two years, when I was there -- the situation is now a bit more diversified as far as eating is concerned -- but when I was there, and traditionally the freshmen and sophomores ate in university dining halls. And then, as juniors and seniors, they had to find other places to eat, and these were private facilities. GRAHAM: What is a selective eating society? ALITO: It's one where you apply to be a member, like a fraternity, and you go through a process that is somewhat similar to that, and they select you if they like you. GRAHAM: Were you a member of a selective eating society? ALITO: No, I was not. GRAHAM: Did people not like you or you just didn't apply? (LAUGHTER) ALITO: I didn't apply. GRAHAM: Well, let me tell you who did apply. Donald Rumsfeld was a member of a selective eating society at Princeton. And that's an interesting comment, I thought. Woodrow Wilson. Jim Leach, good friend of mine over in the House. Mitch Daniels, the governor of Indiana, was a member of a nonselective eating society. Senator Claiborne Pell was a member of nonselective eating societies. And other Princeton alumni who are members of Congress could not verify their participation or lack thereof in eating clubs, including Senator Sarbanes, Bond, Frist and Representative Marshall. And I promise you I'll get to the bottom of that before this is all done. (LAUGHTER) Now, this organization that was mentioned very prominently earlier in the day, did you ever write an article for this organization? ALITO: No, I did not. GRAHAM: OK. And some quotes were shown, from people who did write for this organization, that you disavowed. Do you remember that exchange? ALITO: I disavow them. I deplore them. They represent things that I have always stood against and I can't express too strongly... GRAHAM: If you don't mind the suspicious nature that I have is that you may be saying that because you want to get on the Supreme Court; that you're disavowing this now because it doesn't look good. And really what I would look at to believe you're not -- and I'm going to be very honest with you -- is: How have you lived your life? Are you really a closet bigot? ALITO: I'm not any kind of a bigot, I'm not. GRAHAM: No, sir, you're not. And you know why I believe that? Not because you just said it -- but that's a good enough reason, because you seem to be a decent, honorable man. I have got reams of quotes from people who have worked with you, African American judges -- I've lost my quotes. Judge Higginbotham -- I don't know where they're at. But glowing quotes about who you are, the way you've lived your life; law clerks, men and women, black and white, your colleagues who say that Sam Alito, whether I agree with him or not, is a really good man. You know why I believe you when you say that you disavow those quotes? Because the way you have lived your life and the way you and your wife are raising your children. Let me tell you this: Guilt by association is going to drive good men and women away from wanting to sit where you're sitting. And we're going to go through a bit of this ourselves as congressmen and senators. People are going to take a fact that we got a campaign donation from somebody who's found out to be a little different than we thought they were -- and our political opponent's going to say, Aha, I got you! And we're going to say, Wait a minute. I didn't know that. I didn't take the money for that reason. And you know what? I'm going to believe these senators and congressmen for the most part, because that's the way we do our business. We meet people here every day. We have photos taken with people -- and sometimes you wish you didn't have your photo taken. But that doesn't mean that you're a bad person because of that association. Judge Alito, I am sorry that you've had to go through this. I am sorry that your family has had to sit here and listen to this. Now let's talk about another time not so long ago -- and another judge and some of her writings -- and see if the Senate is changing for the better or for the worse. GRAHAM: Justice Ginsburg, who I need to go have a cup of coffee with because I constantly bring her up and I do not dislike the lady; I admire her. But let's put it bluntly, under today's environment, from a conservative's point of view, she would have a very hard time because Justice Ginsburg was the general counsel for the ACLU from 1973 to 1980. And if you want me to tar somebody by their association, I can put up some pretty wild cases from my point of view where she was involved. But you know what? I respect her because her job as an attorney for the ACLU is to represent the most unpopular causes. And as far as I can tell during her time with the ACLU, she was honest, she was ethical and she fought for the most unpopular causes. And, for that, I respect her. But you've put some things down on an application about your view of the law in Roe v. Wade and it's taking an unbelievable effort on your part, I think, to convince people that, when I was a lawyer, I did this, when I applied for a job, I was doing this, and as a judge, I will do this. Here is what Justice Ginsburg said in an article she wrote titled, Some Thoughts on Autonomy and Equality in Relationship to Roe v. Wade. The conflict, however, is not simply one between a fetus' interest and a woman's interest narrowly conceived, nor is the overriding issue state versus private control of a woman's body for a span of nine months. Also, in the balance is a woman's autonomous charge of her full life's course, her ability to stand in relation to men, society and to stay as an independent, self-sustaining equal citizen. She wrote further, As long as the government paid for childbirth, the argument proceeded public funding could not be denied for abortion, often a safer and always a far-less expensive course short and long term. By paying for childbirth but not abortion, the government increased spending and intruded upon or steered a choice Roe had ranked as a woman's fundamental right. The public funding of abortion decisions denying a requirement of public funding appear incongruous following so soon after the intrepid 1973 ruling. The court did not adequately explain why the fundamental choice, principle and trimester approach, embraced in Roe did not bar the sovereign at least at the pre-viability stage of pregnancy from taking sides and being required to provide funding for the abortions of poor women. If that writing doesn't suggest an allegiance to Roe, that writing doesn't suggest from her point of view as the author of that article not only is Roe an important constitutional right, that government ought to pay for abortions in certain circumstances. GRAHAM: If she were here today and a Democratic president had nominated her and we take on the role that our colleagues are playing against you, not only would she not have gotten 96 votes, I think she would have been in for a very rough experience. And what's changed? Justice Ginsburg openly expressed a legal theory about Roe v. Wade. My question to you: If I am arguing a case that would alter Roe v. Wade, would I have the ability because of her prior writings to ask her to recuse herself based on those writings alone? ALITO: I don't think you would, Senator. I think it is established that prior writings of a member of the judiciary do not require the recusal of that member of the judiciary. GRAHAM: I think you're absolutely right, Judge. And let me tell you what she said at the hearing when it was her time to sit where you're sitting. You ask me about my thinking on equal protection versus individual autonomy. My answer is that both are implicated. The decision whether or not to bear a child is central to a woman's life, to her well-being and dignity. It is a decision that she must make for herself. When government controls that decision for her, she is being treated as less than a fully adult human responsible for her own choices. A sentiment I think our pro-choice colleagues share, a sentiment that I disagree with because I think the decision does affect humanity, and that's the unborn child. I don't question her religion. I don't question her patriotism. She gave an answer that was very honest and was very direct. And pro-life Republicans and pro-life Democrats never thought about disqualifying her. She didn't go through what you went through. Pro-life Republicans and pro-life Democrats set her comment aside and judged her based on her whole record and believed she was worthy to sit on the Supreme Court and she got 96 votes. And what you've said in your writings about the other side of the issue pales in comparison to what she said before she came to this body. I don't know how many votes you're going to get. You're going to get confirmed. And it's not going to be 96. Judge Roberts got 78, and I'm afraid to say that you're probably going to get less. To my colleagues, I know abortion is important. It's important to me. It's important to you. I know it's an important, central concept in our jurisprudence. But we can't build a judiciary around that one issue. GRAHAM: We can't make judges pledge allegiance to one case. We can't expect them to do things that would destroy their independence. You can vote yes; you can vote no; you can use any reason you would like. I just beg my colleagues: Let's don't go down a road that the country can't sustain and the judiciary will not be able to tolerate. People set aside her writings, set aside her candid statement and gave her the benefit of the doubt that she would apply the law when her time came. She replaced Justice White. We knew that that vote was going to change. I don't think any Republican had any doubt that, if there was a Roe v. Wade issue, she would vote differently than Justice White. But you never know. The one thing I can tell the public about you and John Roberts is that you're first round NFL draft picks, but I don't know what you're going to do 10 or 20 years from now because I think you are men of great integrity. And I may be very well disappointed in some of your legal reasoning, but I'll never be disappointed in you if you do your job as you see fit. The last thing I'm going to read -- do you know Cathy Fleming? ALITO: I do. She was an attorney and supervisor in the U.S. Attorney's office in New Jersey. GRAHAM: Did you ask her to write a letter on your behalf? ALITO: I did not, no. GRAHAM: Judge Alito did not ask me to write this letter. I volunteered. (LAUGHTER) I'm glad you said that, by the way. (LAUGHTER) I'm a lifelong Democrat. I am the president-elect of a national women's bar association. I chaired the corporate integrity and the white collar crime group at a national law firm. I do not speak on behalf of either my law firm or the women's bar association. I speak for myself only. But, by providing my credentials as an outspoken women's rights advocate and liberal-minded criminal defense attorney, I hope you will appreciate the significance of my unqualified and enthusiastic recommendation of Sam Alito for the Supreme Court. Sam possesses the best qualities for judges. He's thoughtful; he's brilliant; he's measured; he's serious; and he's conscious of the awesome responsibilities imposed by his position. I cannot think of better qualities for a Supreme Court justice. It is my fervent hope that politics will not prevent this extraordinary, capable candidate from serving as associate justice on the United States Supreme Court. GRAHAM: I share her hope. Thank you. I yield back my time.
01.10.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 HATCH: Mr. Chairman? SPECTER: Senator Hatch? HATCH: On this particular issue, could I just take two minutes out of my next round? SPECTER: If you want to comment, you may. And Senator Feingold should have an opportunity to respond. HATCH: Sure. On the form that you filled out, the question was: Explain how you will resolve any potential conflict of interest, including the procedure you will follow in determining these areas of concern. Identify the categories of litigation and financial arrangements that are likely to present potential conflicts of interest during your initial service in the position to which you have been nominated. HATCH: Now, this case arose 12 years later, didn't it? ALITO: Yes, it did, Senator. HATCH: That's hardly your initial service. To be held to that type of a standard, especially in a case that every ethics professor I know of says you didn't do anything wrong in, seems to me is going a little bit beyond the pale here. And it is overblown. And, frankly, I think you got to read the whole thing. You're a good lawyer and you agreed to do it, but it was during your initial service. Now, I guess you could interpret initial service to be a year or two or three years. But 12 years? I don't think so. SPECTER: Senator Feingold...(CROSSTALK) FEINGOLD: Yes. I mean, the fact is the nominee continues to have the holdings in Vanguard. They've appreciated in value. Time hasn't changed that. I think the judge here was at least trying to suggest there might have been some mistake made here, and instead we're getting sort of after-the-fact justifications that put some kind of a time limit on the promise he made to this committee. And there was no time limit on the promise that was made to the committee. HATCH: I still have 30 seconds left. Judge, number one, you've researched it and you didn't have to recuse yourself. You concluded that. ALITO: Yes, I did. HATCH: Number two, these ethics professors have concluded that. right? ALITO: That's right. HATCH: Number three, you have tried to comport with the highest standards of ethics during your whole 15 years on the bench. Right? ALITO: I have tried to do that... HATCH: Number four, I believe we'll have judges from that court who will say that you have. SPECTER: Senator Feingold? FEINGOLD: Mr. Chairman, I'm curious if this isn't a situation where he felt the need to recuse himself, why he would have put Vanguard on the list as something he should recuse himself from after the fact. HATCH: Because he was mistaken. That's why. SPECTER: All right, we're going move on now. I think that this slight exchange is permissible as an exception to our general rules. It livens up the afternoon.(LAUGHTER) HATCH: I want my two minutes back. SPECTER: Anything at about 5:30 in the afternoon is welcome. LEAHY: The chairman was disturbed by my snoring over here. (LAUGHTER) SPECTER: Senator Graham? GRAHAM: Hello? (LAUGHTER) ALITO: Hello, Senator. GRAHAM: That was an interesting exchange. I guess there's no rule against beating a dead horse, or we'd all have quit a long time ago. (LAUGHTER) So in the next 30 minutes, I'm going to ask you the same questions you've been asked for a whole day. (LAUGHTER) And I hope you'll understand if any us come before a court and we can't remember Abramoff, you will tend to believe us. (LAUGHTER) (CROSSTALK) GRAHAM: Now I know why they give you a lifetime appointment for doing this. I was skeptical before, but I think once is enough in a lifetime. For what it's worth, I think you've done a great job. You've been very forthcoming. You've seldom used, I may have to decide that. You've answered a lot of questions. And I particularly enjoyed Senator Feingold's questions about the executive power. And I will pick up on that. Number one, from a personal point of view, do you believe the attacks on 9/11 against our nation were a crime or an act of war? ALITO: That's a hard question to answer. GRAHAM: Good. ALITO: That's a way of buying 30 seconds while I think about the answer. Senator, I think that what I think personally about this is really not -- it's not something that would be -- that would inform anything that I would have to do as a judge. GRAHAM: Well, Judge, I guess I disagree. Because I think we're at war. And the law of armed conflict in a war time environment is different than dealing with domestic criminal enterprises. Do you agree with that? ALITO: It certainly is. GRAHAM: We have laws on the book that protects us, the Fourth Amendment included, from our own law enforcement agencies coming against our own citizens. But we also have laws on the books during a time of war to protect our country from being infiltrated by foreign powers and bodies who wish to do harm to us. That's a totally different legal concept. Is that correct? ALITO: I'm reluctant to get into this because I think things like act of war can well have particular legal meanings in particular context, under the Constitution... GRAHAM: Do you doubt that our nation has been in an armed conflict with terrorist organizations since 9/11, that we've been in an undeclared state of war? ALITO: In a lay sense, certainly, we've been in a conflict with terrorist organizations. I'm just concerned that, in the law, all of these phrases can have particular meanings that are defined by the cases and are... GRAHAM: That's very important. And let's have a continuing legal education seminar here about the law of armed conflict in the Hamdi case. The Hamdi case is precedent, is that correct? ALITO: It certainly is. GRAHAM: It's a decision of the Supreme Court. And it tells us at least two to three things. Number one, it tells us something that I find reassuring; that the Bill of Rights, the Constitution, survive even in a time of war. ALITO: That is certainly true. GRAHAM: So, there's a holding in that case that I want to associate myself with, and I think Senator Feingold does; that, even during a time of war when your values are threatened by an enemy who does not adhere to those values, they will not be threatened by your government unless there's a good reason. Do you agree with that, sir? ALITO: Senator, I agree that the constitution was meant to deal with all of the contingencies that our country was going to face. I think the framers hoped that we would not get involved in many wars but they were students of history and I'm sure they realized that there would be wars. They provided for war powers for the president and for Congress. And the structure is meant to apply both in peace and in war. GRAHAM: And you said in your previous testimony that no political figure in this country is above the law, even in a time of war. ALITO: That is correct. GRAHAM: OK. There's another aspect of the Hamdi case that no one's picked up on, but I will read to you: In light of these principles, it is of no moment that the authorization to use military force does not use specific language of detention because detention to prevent a combatant's return to the battlefield is a fundamental instant of waging war. In permitting the use of necessary and appropriate force, Congress has clearly and unmistakably authorized detention in the narrow circumstances considered here. And those circumstances were a person alleged by the executive branch to be an enemy combatant. And one of the principles we found from the Hamdi case that because we are, in my opinion, at war and Congress has authorized the president to use force against our enemies, the executive branch, according to the Hamdi case, inherent to his power of being commander in chief, can detain people who have been caught on the battlefield. Does that make sense to you? Do you agree that's a principle of the Hamdi case? ALITO: That is a principle of the Hamdi case. GRAHAM: And it makes perfect sense. Because if we catch someone in Afghanistan or Iraq or any other place in the world who is committing acts of violence against our troops or our forces, or we catch people here in the United States who have infiltrated our country for the purpose of sabotaging our nation, there is no requirement in the law to catch and release these people. Is there? ALITO: Well, Hamdi speaks to the situation of an individual who was caught on the battlefield... GRAHAM: In the history of our nation, when we captured German and Japanese prisoners, was there ever a legal requirement anybody advanced that after a specific period of time you have to let them go? ALITO: It's my understanding that the prisoners of war who were taken in World War II were held until the conflict was over. GRAHAM: It would be an absurd conclusion for a court or anyone else to tell the executive branch that if you caught somebody legitimately engaged in hostile activities against the United States that you have to let them go and go back and fight us again. That makes no sense; does it? ALITO: Well, I explained what my understanding is about how this matter of holding prisoners was handled in prior wars. This issue was addressed in Hamdi, or it was discussed in Hamdi in the context... GRAHAM: In the Padilla case they held an American citizen who was engaged in hostile activities against the United States, allegedly, as an enemy combatant. And the 4th Circuit said the president, during a time of hostility, has the ability to do that. Do you agree that that's a part of our jurisprudence? ALITO: That was -- the holding in Padilla? GRAHAM: Yes. ALITO: Yes. That was the holding of the lower court -- of Padilla, yes. GRAHAM: The point I'm trying to make is that when you're engaged in hostilities there are some things that we assume the president will do. If we don't kill the enemy, we capture the enemy. The president as the commander in chief will make sure they don't go back to the battle. Number two, that if we catch someone and there's a question to their status whether or not you're a prisoner of war in the Geneva Convention, are you an enemy combatant, who traditionally in our constitutional democracy determines whether or not the status of a person engaged in hostilities? ALITO: Well, Padilla -- I'm sorry, Hamdi said that a person who was being detained, an unlawful person who's asserted to be an unlawful combatant and who is being detained has due process rights. And the issue of the type of tribunal -- and they explained to some degree how that would be handled. But the identity of the particular tribunal that would be required to adjudicate that was not an issue that was decided in Hamdi or any of the other cases. GRAHAM: Can you show me an example in American jurisprudence where the question of status, whether a person was a lawful combatant or an unlawful combatant, was decided by a court and not the military? ALITO: I can't think of an example. I can't say that I am able to survey the whole history of this issue, but I... (CROSSTALK) GRAHAM: Can you show me in a case in American jurisprudence where an enemy prisoner held by our military was allowed to bring a lawsuit against our own military regarding their detention? ALITO: I am not aware of such a case. GRAHAM: Is there a constitutional right for a foreign, noncitizen enemy prisoner to have access to our courts to sue regarding their condition of the confinement under our Constitution? ALITO: Well, I'm not aware of a precedent that addresses the issue. GRAHAM: Do you know of any case where an enemy prisoner of war brought a habeas petition in World War II objecting to be their confinement to our federal judiciary? ALITO: There may have been a lower court case. I'm trying to remember the exact status of the individual. GRAHAM: Let me help you. There were two cases. One of them involved six saboteurs, the in re Quirin case. Would you agree with me that that case stood for the proposition that in a time of war or declared hostilities an illegal combatant, even though they may be an American citizen, the proper forum for them to be tried in is a military tribunal and they're not entitled to a jury trial as an American citizen in a non-wartime environment? ALITO: Well, those were a number of German saboteurs who landed by submarine in the United States. And they were taken into custody. And they were tried before a military tribunal. And the case went up to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court sustained their being tried before a military tribunal. At least one of them claimed to be an American citizen. And most of them, I think all but one or two, actually were executed. GRAHAM: And our Supreme Court said that is the proper forum during a war-time environment to try people who were engaged in a legal combat activities against our country. Is that correct? ALITO: They sustained what was done under the circumstances. GRAHAM: That would be a precedent then, wouldn't it? ALITO: It is a precedent. Yes. GRAHAM: OK. There was a case involving six Germans, soldiers, captured in Japan and transferred to Germany, and they brought a habeas petition to be released in the -- I can't remember the ... ALITO: Eisentrager. GRAHAM: You know it. Tell me what the court decided there. ALITO: They were, as I recall, they were Germans who were found in China... GRAHAM: China. You're right ALITO: ... assisting the Japanese after termination of the war with Germany. And they were unsuccessful in their habeas petition. That was interpreted, prior to the Supreme Court's decision a couple of years ago, to mean that there was a lack of habeas jurisdiction over them because they were being held in territory that was not U.S. territory. GRAHAM: For those who are watching who are not lawyers, generally speaking, in all of the wars that we've been involved in we don't let the people trying to kill us sue us. Right? And we're not going to let them go at an arbitrary time period if we think they're still dangerous because we don't want to go have to shoot at them again or let them shoot at us again. Is that a good summary of the law of armed conflict? ALITO: I don't know whether I'd put it quite that broadly, Senator. (LAUGHTER) The precedent that you -- the Johnson v. Eisentrager, of course, has been substantially modified, if not overruled. Ex Parte Quirin, of course, is still a precedent. There was a lower precedent involving someone who fought with the Italian army. And I can't remember the exact name of it. And that was the case that I thought you were referring to when you first framed the question. But those are the precedents in the area. Then, if you go back to the Civil War, there's Ex Parte Milligan and a few others. GRAHAM: We don't have to go back that far. (LAUGHTER) ALITO: Well, in this area... GRAHAM: Well... ALITO: ... it's actually instructive to do it. But in Hamdi the court addressed this question of how long the detention should take place. And they said -- because they were responding to the argument that this situation is not like the wars of the past which had a more or less fixed -- it was not anticipated that they would go on for a generation. And they said: We'll get to that if it develops that way. GRAHAM: Who is better able to determine if an enemy combatant properly held has ongoing intelligence value to our country? Is it the military or a judge? ALITO: On intelligence matters I would think that is an issue -- that is an area where the judiciary doesn't have expertise. But we do get into this issue I was discussing with Senator Feingold about the degree to which the balance between the judiciary's performing its function in cases involving individual rights and its desire not to intrude into areas where it lacks expertise, particularly in times of war and national crisis. GRAHAM: So, having said that, if we have a decision to make as a country when to let someone go who's an enemy combatant, I guess we've got two choices. We can have court cases or we can allow the military to make a determination if that person still presents a threat to the United States and whether or not that person has an intelligence value by further confinement. Do you feel the courts possess the capabilities and the confidence to make those two decisions better than the military? ALITO: The courts do not have expertise in foreign affairs or in military affairs. And they certainly should recognize that. And that is one powerful consideration in addressing legal issues that may come up in this context. But there is the other powerful consideration that it is the responsibility of the courts to protect individual rights in cases that are properly before the court, cases where they have jurisdiction in one way or another, cases that are fit for judicial resolution. GRAHAM: I totally understand that. But our courts have not, by tradition, gotten involved in running military jails during a time of war. I can't think of one time where a prisoner of war housed in the United States during World War II, a German Nazi or a Japanese prisoner, was able to go and sue our own troops about their confinement. I think there's a reason there's none of those cases. It would lead to chaos. Now, when it comes to treating detainees and how to treat them, I think the Congress has a big role to play. And I think that the courts have a big role to play. Are you familiar with the Geneva Convention? ALITO: I have some familiarity with it. I'm... GRAHAM: Do you believe it's been good for our country to be a signatory to that convention? ALITO: I think it has. But that's not really my area of authority. That's Congress' area of authority. GRAHAM: Well, just as an American citizen, are you proud of the fact that your country has signed up the Geneva Convention and that we have laid out a system of how we treat people who fall into our hands and how we'll engage in war? ALITO: I think the Geneva Convention -- and I'm not an expert on the Geneva Conventions -- but I think they express some very deep values of the American people. And we've been a signatory of them for some time. And I think that... GRAHAM: Now, let's go back to the legal application of the Geneva Convention. If someone was captured by an American force and detained either at home or abroad, would the Geneva Convention give that detainee a private cause of action against the United States government? ALITO: Well, that's an issue I believe in the Hamdan case, which is an actual case that's before the Supreme Court. And it goes to the question of whether a treaty is self-executing or not. Some treaties are self-executing... GRAHAM: Has there ever been an occasion in all the wars we fought where the Geneva Convention was involved whether the courts treated the Geneva Convention as a private cause of action to bring a lawsuit against our own troops? ALITO: I'm not familiar with such a case. But I can't say whether there might be some case or not. GRAHAM: Now, when it comes to what authority the executive has during a time of war, we know the Supreme Court has said it's implicit from the force resolution that you can detain people captured on the battlefield. Hamdi stands for that proposition. Is that correct? ALITO: That's what was involved in Hamdi. GRAHAM: OK. The problem that Senator Feingold has and I have and some of the rest of us have is does that force resolution, does it have the legal effect of creating an exception to the FISA Court? And I know that may come before you, but let's talk about generally how the law works. You say that the president has to follow every statute on the books unless the statute allows an exception for the president. Is that a fair statement? Just being president, you can't set aside the law. ALITO: The president has to follow the law, and that means the Constitution and the laws that are enacted consistent with the Constitution. GRAHAM: There's a statute that we have on the books against torture. Are you familiar with that statute? ALITO: Convention against torture, I am. Well, the statutes implementing the convention against torture. GRAHAM: And the statute provides the death penalty for somebody who violates the conventions as a possible punishment. ALITO: That's right. If death results, the death penalty is available. GRAHAM: So this idea that Senator McCain somehow banned torture is not quite right. The convention on torture and the statute that we have implementing that convention were on the books long before this year. GRAHAM: Is that correct? ALITO: Yes, they were. GRAHAM: Do you believe that any president, because we're at war, could say, the statute on torture gets in the way of my ability to defend the United States; therefore I don't have to comply with it? ALITO: The president has to comply with the Constitution and the laws of the United States that are enacted consistent with the Constitution. That is the principle. The president is not above the Constitution and the laws. Now, there are issues about the interpretation of the laws and the interpretation of the Constitution. GRAHAM: Are you a strict constructionist? ALITO: I think it depends on what you mean by that phrase. And if you... GRAHAM: Well, let's forget that. We'll never get to the end of that. (LAUGHTER) Have you heard the term used? ALITO: I have heard the term used. GRAHAM: Is it fair to say that, when it's used by politicians, people like me, that we're trying to tell the public we want a judge who looks at things very narrowly, that doesn't make a bunch of stuff up? Is that a fair understanding of what a strict constructionist may be in the political world? ALITO: Well, if a strict constructionist is a judge who doesn't make things up, than I'm a strict constructionist. (LAUGHTER) GRAHAM: There you go. ALITO: I agree with that, Senator. (LAUGHTER) GRAHAM: Now, if there's a force resolution that Congress passes to allow any president to engage in military activity against someone trying to do us harm and the force resolution says, The president is authorized to use all necessary and appropriate force against those nations, organizations or persons he determines, planned, authorized, committed or aided the terrorist attacks that occurred on September 11, 2001 -- or just make it generic -- if someone argued that that declaration by Congress was a blanket exemption to the warrant requirement under FISA, would that be a product of strict constructionist legal reasoning? ALITO: I think that a strict constructionist as you understand it would engage in a certain process in evaluating that question. And a strict constructionist, a person who interprets the law -- that's how I would put it -- a person who interprets the law would look at the language of the authorization for the use of military force and legislative history that was informative, maybe past practices. Were there prior enactments that are analogous to that? What was the understanding of those? And a host of other considerations that might go into the interpretive process. GRAHAM: I guess what I'm saying, Judge, is I can understand why the court ruled that the president has within his authority to detain people on the battlefield under this force resolution. That makes sense. I understand why the president believes he has the ability to surveil the enemy at a time of war. And the idea that our president or this administration took the law in their own hands and ignored precedent of other presidents or case law and just tried to make a power grab, I don't agree with. But this is really not about you, so you don't have to listen. I'm talking to other people right now. (LAUGHTER) The point I'm trying to make -- the point I'm trying to make is what Justice Jackson made, is that, when it comes to issues like this, when we surveil our enemy and we've cross the our own borders and we have information about our own people, we need, in my opinion, Judge, to have the president at the strongest. And that would be when Congress, through collaboration with the president, comes up with a method of dealing with that situation. And then it could be very dangerous in the long run if we over- interpret war resolutions. Because I've got a problem with that. And I believe that if we don't watch it and we over-interpret these resolutions, that we will have a chilling effect for the next president. The next president who wants to use force to protect us in a justifiable manner may be less likely to get that resolution approved if we go too far. And Judge, you're likely to rule on these issues. And my hope is, before you rule, that we all sit down between the executive and the legislative and we talk about this, because, as you said before, our nation, not only our legal system, is strongest when we work together. Executive power: The Constitution allows the president to nominate judges. If Congress tried to change that by statute and say that we would like to pick the judges, what would happen, hypothetically? ALITO: I have a certain amount of self-interest in the answer to that question. GRAHAM: Yes, I thought you might, yes. Clearly, clearly, the statute would fall under the Constitution. A veto is not reviewable by courts because that's a basically political decision. Under the Constitution, what's the vote requirement to get confirmed to the Supreme Court? ALITO: It's a majority. GRAHAM: Hypothetically speaking, what if the Senate passed a statute or had a rule that said you can't get a vote to be on the Supreme Court unless you get 60 votes? How does that sit with you? ALITO: Speaking in my personal capacity or my judicial capacity? GRAHAM: Your judicial capacity. ALITO: Senator, I just don't think I should answer questions like -- constitutional questions like that. GRAHAM: What if the Senate said during impeachment that we don't want a two-thirds vote of the Senate; we want a majority vote? Would the Senate's action fall under the Constitution? ALITO: There are certain questions that seem perfectly clear. And I guess there's no harm in answering... GRAHAM: Is there any doubt in your mind the Constitution requires a majority vote to be on the Supreme Court or any other federal judicial office? ALITO: You know what? I remember this phrase from law school... GRAHAM: Is that a super-duper precedent? (LAUGHTER) ALITO: I think it's what we call in law school the slippery slope, and if you start answering the easy questions, you're going to be sliding down the ski run into the hard questions. And that's what I'm not too happy to do. GRAHAM: That's what I tried to get to you do and I'm glad you didn't do it. (LAUGHTER) The bottom line through this exercise is: You've got a job. I've got a job. And what disturbs me a bit is that we're beginning to hold the lawyer responsible for the client. And in my remaining time here, what damage could be done to the legal profession or judiciary if people in my profession start holding your clients' position against the advocate? ALITO: I think it's been traditionally recognized that lawyers have an obligation to their clients. That's how our legal system works. Some lawyers have private clients. Some lawyers work for government agencies and the lawyer-client relationship there is not exactly the same. But still there is a lawyer-client relationship. And I think our whole system is based on the idea that justice is best served... GRAHAM: If you were an attorney general representing a state that passed a ban on partial-birth abortion, would it be fair to that attorney general if they came before this committee to hold that against them if you disagreed with them on the subject matter? ALITO: I think that attorneys general -- I can speak to the issue of the attorney general of the United States because I know there's a statute and there's an understanding about what the attorney general of the United States will do when an act of Congress is called into question. And the obligation of the attorney general is to defend the constitutionality of the act of Congress... (CROSSTALK) GRAHAM: Lawyers' obligation is to defend their clients' interest. Is that an accurate statement of what a lawyer is supposed to do? ALITO: It certainly is, yes. GRAHAM: No matter where that client is popular or not or the position is popular or not. Is that correct? ALITO: Consistent with ethical obligations and professional responsibility, yes, indeed. GRAHAM: What's this process been like for you and your family? In a short period of time, could you tell us how to improve it? ALITO: Well, it's been a combination -- at times it's been a thrill and at times it's been extremely disorienting. I've spent the last 15 years as a judge on the court of appeals. And you probably could not think of a more cloistered existence than a judge on the court of appeals. Most of the time nobody other than the parties pays attention to what we do. When an article is written in the paper about one of our decisions, it's a federal appeals court in Philadelphia or in whatever city. And this has been a strange process for me. I made some reference to that yesterday. But I understand the reason for it. And I am reluctant in my current capacity as a nominee to offer any suggestions about the process. I think that you're carrying out your responsibility. I spoke about the fact that different people under the Constitution have different obligations. And you have the advice and consent function, Congress -- the Senate does. And I think it's for the Senate to decide what it should do in this area. SPECTER: Thank you, Senator Graham.
01.09.2006	Wes Hickman (202) 24-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And welcome back, Judge. I'd hate for you to miss my opening statement. (LAUGHTER) It would be a loss for the ages. Welcome to the committee. Welcome to one of the most important events in your life. You've got the people that mean the most here with you today, your family. I know they're proud of you. I'm certainly proud of what you have been able to accomplish. And to say the least, you come to the Senate in interesting political times. There is going to be a lot of talk by the senators of this committee about concepts that are important to Americans. But what I worry the most about -- your time, believe it or not, will come and go. You will not be here forever, it may just seem that way. But I think you're going to be just fine. I don't know what kind of vote you're going to get, but you'll make it through. It's possible you could talk me out of voting for you, but I doubt it. So I won't even try to challenge you along those lines. I feel very comfortable with you being on the Supreme Court based on what I know. And the hearings will be helpful to all of us to find out some issues that are important to us. We had a talk recently about executive power. That's very important to me. In a time of war, I want the executive branch to have the tools to protect me, my family and my country. But also I believe even during a time of war, the rule of law applies. And I've got some problems with using a force resolution to the point that future presidents may not be able to get a force resolution from Congress if you interpret it too broadly. We've talked about those things and we'll talk more about it. But I'm going to talk a little bit about some of the points my colleagues have been making. Everybody knows you're a conservative. The question is: Are you a mainstream conservative? Well, the question I have for my colleagues is: Who would you ask to find out? Would you ask Senator Kennedy? Probably not. If you asked me who a mainstream liberal is, I would be the worst person to pick, because I do not hang out over there. (LAUGHTER) I expect that most all of us, if not all of us, will vote for you. I would argue that we represent from the center line to the right ditch in our party and, if all of us vote for you, you've got to be pretty mainstream. So the answer to the question, Are you a mainstream conservative? We’ll soon know. If every Republican member of the Judiciary Committee votes for you, and you're not mainstream, that means we are not mainstream. It is a word that means what you want it to mean. Advise and consent means what? Whatever you want it to be. Advise and consent means the process has got to work to the advantage of people I like and with people I don't want on the court, it is a different process. That is politics. Every senator will have to live within themselves as to what they would like to see happen for the judiciary. My main concern here is not about you, it's about us. What are we going to be doing as a body to the judiciary when it is all said and done? Roe v. Wade and abortion: If I wanted to work for Ronald Reagan, one of the things I would tell the Reagan Administration is I think Roe v. Wade was wrongly decided. They are likely to hire me because they were trying to prove to the court that the court took away from elected officials a very important right, protecting the unborn. I was on the news program with Senator Feinstein this weekend, who is a terrific person. She made a very emotional, compelling argument that she can remember back alley abortions and women committing suicide when abortion was illegal. I understand that is seared in her memory banks and that is important to her. Let me tell you, there's another side to that story. There are millions of Americans -- a bunch of them in South Carolina -- who are heartsick that millions of unborn children have been sent to a certain death because of what judges have done. It's a two-sided argument and an emotional event in our society. They're talking about maybe filibustering if you don't give the right answer. Well, what could possibly be the right answer about Roe v. Wade? If you acknowledge it's a precedent of the court, well, then you would be right. If you refused to listen to someone who's trying to change the way it's applied or to overturn it and you will say, Here, I will never listen to them, you might talk me out of voting for you. I don't think any American should lose the right to challenge any precedent the Supreme Court has issued because the judge wanted to get on the court. You may be a great fan of Roe v. Wade and you think it should be there forever. There may be a case where someone disagrees with that line of reasoning. What I want from the judge is an understanding that precedent matters but the facts, the brief and the law is what you're going to base your decision on as to whether or not that precedent stands. Not some bargain to get on the court. Because I can tell you, if that ever becomes a reason to filibuster, there are plenty of people that I personally know, if it became fashionable to stand on the floor of the Senate to stop a nominee on the issue of abortion, feel so deeply, so honestly held belief that an abortion is certain death for an unborn child that they would stand on their feet forever. Is that what we want? Is that where we're going as a nation? Are we going to take one case and one issue, and if we don't get the answer we like that represents our political view on that issue, are we going to bring the judiciary to their knees? Are we going to say as a body, It doesn't matter how smart you are, how many cases you decided, how many things you've done in your life as a lawyer, forget about it; it all comes down to this one issue ? If we do, if we go down that road, there will be no going back. Good men and women will be deterred from coming before this body to serve their nation as a judge at the highest levels. What we're saying and what we're doing here is far more important than just whether or not Judge Alito gets through the process. What is the proper role of a senator when it come to advise and consent? I would argue that, if we start taking the one or two cases we cherish the most and make that a litmus test, we've let our country down and we've changed a historical standard. Elections matter. Values debates occur all over this country. They occur in presidential elections. It is no mystery as to what President Bush would do if he won. He would pick people like John Roberts and Sam Alito. That's what he said he would do. That's exactly what he's done. He's picked solid, strict constructionist conservatives who have long, distinguished legal careers. What did President Clinton do? He picked people left of the center who worked for Democrats. It cannot surprise anybody on the other side that two people we picked worked for Ronald Reagan. We like Ronald Reagan. President Clinton picked Ginsburg and Breyer. Justice Ginsburg was the general counsel for the ACLU. If I'm going to base my decision based on who you represented as a lawyer, how in the world could I ever vote for somebody that represented the ACLU? If I'm going to make my decision based on whether or not I agree with the Princeton faculty and administration policies on ROTC students and quotas and I am bound by that, I'll get killed at home. What the president does with their admission policies and whether or not an ROTC unit should be on a campus is an OK thing to debate. At least I hope it is OK. I think most American are going to be with the group that you're associated with, not the policies of Princeton. The bottom line is you come here as an individual with a life well-lived. Everybody who seems to work with you as a private lawyer, public lawyer, as a judge, admires you, even though they may disagree with you. My biggest concern, members of this committee, is if we don't watch the way we treat people like Judge Alito, we're going to drive good men and women away from wanting to serve. There'll be a Democratic president one day. I do not know when, but that's likely to happen. There'll be another Justice Ginsburg come over. If she came over in this atmosphere, she wouldn't get 96 votes. Justice Scalia wouldn't get 98 votes. And that's sad to me. I hope we'll use this opportunity to not only treat you fairly but not use a double standard. I hope we'll understand this is bigger than you, this is bigger than us. The way we conduct ourselves and what we expect of you, we better be expecting when we're not in power. Thank you.
01.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Charleston Interfaith Crisis Ministry will receive a $204,539 Healthcare for the Homeless (HCH) grant. The funds will help provide primary health care, mental health, and substance abuse services to the homeless population in the Charleston area. Interfaith Crisis Ministry has been a recipient of this competitive federal grant since 1996. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
01.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Business Development Corporation of Clarendon County will receive a $50,000 economic development grant. “South Carolina’s natural resources are some of our most valuable assets,” said Graham. “I hope this grant will prove beneficial to the county’s efforts to bring more tourism dollars to the area.” The funds will be used to support a feasibility study of tourism development in the Santee-Cooper Lakes System. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
01.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the Graham-Levin-Kyl amendment to the recently enacted defense appropriations bill. “Under no circumstance did I intend, by a change in language, that existing lawsuits filed by enemy combatants detained at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO) would be statutorily preserved. Nor do I believe a reasonable reading of the statute would lead to that conclusion. “The intent of the language contained within the Graham-Levin-Kyl amendment is that Courts will decide in accord with their own rules, procedures and precedents whether to proceed in pending cases. “It is my belief Congress has spoken in a bipartisan fashion – loud and clear – that enemy combatant terrorists engaged in hostile acts against the United States do not have the same legal rights as American citizens under Section 2241 of the federal criminal code passed by Congress. “It is clear from the Graham-Levin-Kyl amendment federal courts will retain jurisdiction to review military decisions as to whether an individual was properly classified as an enemy combatant. It is my belief the Courts will use the procedures outlined in Graham-Levin-Kyl for judicial review in place of habeas petitions under Section 2241 past, present, and future. The over 160 habeas petitions plus over 200 money damage claims are undermining the effective operation of Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. “Michael Ratner, a lawyer who has filed lawsuits on behalf of numerous enemy combatants held at Guantanamo Bay, boasts about the fact this litigation has undermined intelligence gathering in the war on terror. Ratner said, “The litigation is brutal for [the United States]. It’s huge. We have over one hundred lawyers now from big and small firms working to represent these detainees. Every time an attorney goes down there, it makes it that much harder [for the U.S. military] to do what they’re doing. You can’t run an interrogation…with attorneys. What are they going to do now that we’re getting court orders to get more lawyers down there?” (Onnesha Roychoudhuri, The Torn Fabric of the Law: An Interview with Michael Ratner, Mother Jones Magazine, March 21, 2005.) “There are now cases filed by enemy combatants requesting better mail delivery, more exercise, judge-supervised interrogation, Internet access, the right to view DVDs and alleging medical malpractice. Never in the history of warfare have enemy prisoners been able to bring lawsuits about their detention. Thousands of Germans and Japanese prisoners during World War II were captured and held by the military. Not one case was allowed in federal court regarding their detention. “The legal review allowed for in Graham-Levin-Kyl is far beyond the requirements of the Geneva Convention but will prevent the unnecessary disruption of the operation of Guantamo Bay to protect our nation’s national security.” ####
01.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced displaced employees at Weavetex, Inc. in Jonesville are eligible to receive trade adjustment assistance (TAA). The Department of Labor has certified that Weavetex has suffered losses due to increased foreign imports and cheap foreign labor. TAA benefits help provide displaced workers with job retraining, educational advancement, resume writing and relocation assistance. Eligible workers also qualify for alternative trade adjustment assistance, a special program that benefits workers over the age of fifty. “These programs help soften the blow of job losses due to the unfair trade practices,” said Graham. “Our manufacturers and textile companies are simply asking for a fair playing field. American workers are hard-working and when given the chance to compete in a fair market, no one can come close to them.” Graham noted that manufacturing companies in South Carolina have been hard hit by unfair competition much of it coming from China. Employees of Weavetex should visit their local ‘One-Stop Center’ for more information on how to receive TAA benefits. There are ‘One-Stop’ locations in Spartanburg and Union: Upstate One-Stop Career Center 110 Commerce Street Spartanburg, SC 29306 864-562-4168 Spartanburg ESC One-Stop Satellite Center 364 South Church Street Spartanburg, SC 29304 864-573-7525 Union One-Stop Satellite Center 440 Duncan Highway Union, SC 29379 864-427-5672 ####
01.04.2006	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Catawba Regional Council of Governments will receive a $55,000 economic development grant. “Regionalism is the key to promoting economic growth and development,” said Graham. “I am pleased to see our local governments working together with the regional councils to improve the economic future of our state.” The funds will be used to support long-term regional economic development planning efforts. The Catawba Regional Council of Governments serves Chester, Lancaster, Union, and York County. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
12.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- The United States Senate last night approved the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Authorization bill. The legislation improves benefits for military personnel including a provision offered by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) to expand TRICARE to all drilling reservists. Graham has worked with other Senators to expand access to health care for members of the National Guard and Reserve who are playing an ever-increasing and historic role in the global War on Terror. He noted that Guardsmen and Reservists now make up approximately 40 percent of American forces in Iraq. “Our work reflects a significant triumph for the Guard, Reserves and their families,” said Graham, chairman of the Armed Services Subcommittee on Personnel. “Now, after years of relative neglect, these soldiers’ health care coverage and benefits are more in line with their service to our nation. This year’s bill provides continuous health care coverage for all drilling reservists, an important improvement over what we were able to accomplish last year.” Under the expansion of TRICARE championed by Graham, all members of the Selected Reserve are eligible to enroll in the military health care program for a monthly premium. The premiums are based on categories of eligibility: Category 1: Members of the Selected Reserve who are called to active duty qualify for TRICARE Reserve Select (TRS). Under this program, established last year, a reservist would accumulate one year of TRS coverage for every 90 days of active duty service. Monthly premiums during the years of accumulated eligibility are only 28 percent of the program cost. The government picks up the remaining 72 percent. As has always been the case, coverage is free of charge while on active duty. This bill now permits accumulation of earned periods of coverage for frequently deployed personnel. In addition, it authorizes 6 months of transitional coverage for family members following the death of the Reserve member, if the member dies while in an inactive status. Category 2: Members of the Selected Reserve who are not called to active duty, and who otherwise do not qualify for health insurance due to unemployment or lack of employer-provided coverage, are eligible to enroll in TRICARE for a 50 percent cost-sharing premium. The government will pay the remaining 50 percent. Category 3: Members of the Selected Reserve who do not fit into either of the above categories but would like to participate in TRICARE are eligible to do so for an 85 percent cost share. Employers are allowed and encouraged to contribute to the reservist’s share. The government contributes 15 percent of the costs. “I will continue to work to improve benefits available to members of the Guard and Reserve,” said Graham. “The nation will continue to need their services, in large numbers, in fighting the War on Terror. I am proud of and appreciate the progress we’ve made this year with the Senate and Bush Administration working together.” “Guardsmen and Reservists are citizen-soldiers,” said Graham. “Increasingly they are being called up, taken away from their work and families, and being sent to far-away lands for long tours of duty. We need to ensure the benefits they are receiving are equal to the sacrifice they are making to protect our country and interests around the world.” The defense bill authorized additional benefits for the men and women serving our nation in uniform. Among these important changes were: * A 3.1 percent pay raise for all military personnel; * Payment of “matching fund” contributions of up to 5 percent of basic pay for first term enlistees who participate in the Thrift Savings Plan. The TSP is a 401(k) retirement plan available to all federal employees. * Increases in maximum amounts of assignment incentive pay and hardship duty pay. * $60 million increase in child care and family assistance services to active-duty and Reserve military families. * Critical skills retention bonus of up to $100,000 over a career for members of the Selected Reserve. * Increases TRICARE benefits for the surviving children of members who die on active duty. * Increases to $100,000 in the death gratuity allowance payable to survivors of all active duty military decedents, including retroactive payment to October 7, 2001, the date of commencement of Operation Enduring Freedom. * Directs the establishment of a uniform Department policy on casualty assistance to improve the services provided to survivors and next of kin of military members killed on active duty. * In addition the bill authorizes increases in the active-duty end strength of 10,000 for the Army and 1,000 for the Marine Corps. The bill has been passed by the House and is expected to be signed into law by President Bush in the coming days. ####
12.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint announced Congress has approved more than $100 million in South Carolina related defense projects. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill. The bill passed the Senate 93-0. “South Carolina is in the forefront of developing cutting-edge military technology and equipping our men and women in uniform,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “Many people in our state give their time, talent, and even their lives to provide for the defense of freedom throughout the world. The patriotism of South Carolina is unmatched. This bill will ensure that America continues to have the best trained and equipped fighting force in history.” “This legislation recognizes South Carolina’s cutting edge research and development and equipment production capabilities,” said DeMint. “This bill will benefit our military and fund the equipment necessary to sustain our men and women in uniform. I am proud of the role South Carolina plays in defending our nation and keeping us safe.” Projects funded in the bill include: LOWCOUNTRY: * $27 million for the purchase of two C-17 Maintenance Training Systems produced in Summerville. * $3 million for the purchase of Quadruple Specialty Containers produced in Charleston. * $3 million for the development of the Joint Threat Warning System, an air communication surveillance system that provides direct warning to aircrafts operating over hostile territory, enhancing situational awareness and increasing aircrew survivability and the probability of mission success. Development is based in Charleston. * $2.25 million for the South Carolina Research Authority to support the Lean Munitions program in Charleston. Lean Munitions will result in ammunition being produced in a timelier and cost efficient manner. * $2 million for the development of an automated container and cargo handling system. The Autolog System will be able to transfer containers from ship-to-ship or ship-to-lighter/dock. Development is based in Charleston. * $2.7 million for the Critical Infrastructure Protection Center in Charleston. * $1.5 million for the development of vaccines for multivalent dengue viruses in Charleston. * $1 million for the additional SecureD real-time data encryption development, testing, and demonstration. UPSTATE: * $2 million to upgrade Combat Casualty Care Equipment, including personnel kits and on-board kits for tactical vehicles. The main production facility is located in Greenville. * $1.75 million for the South Carolina Research Authority to research and develop an active coating technology that adapts in real time to the surrounding situation and environment. The program will be based at Clemson University. * $1.75 million for development of the Advanced Warfighter Sustainment Systems for the 21st Century (AWSS-21). AWSS-21 will provide better packaged and more nutritious food to our soldiers in the field. Research is conducted at Clemson University and in Gray Court. MIDLANDS: * $4.5 million for the purchase of M249 SAW machine guns for the (Army or Marines) and $3.5 million for the (Army or Marines). The M249 is produced in Columbia. * $4 million for research and development of a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier for out-of-hospital resuscitation of patients with severe hemorrhagic shock. R&D will be done in Sumter. * $1.25 million for the University of South Carolina to conduct brain imaging and deception detection research. The focus of the research will measure brain wave activity and brain metabolism. PIEDMONT: * $5 million to purchase portable tent lighting produced in Clover. * $3.5 million for the purchase of All Terrain Military Utility Vehicles (M-Gator) for the Army National Guard. * $2.25 million for the development of high modulus carbon fibers in York. STATEWIDE * $24.5 million to support the Up-Armored HMMWV and Tactical Truck Crew Trainer Program in the Army National Guard. * $5 million for the purchase of All Terrain Military Utility Vehicles (M-Gator) for the Army. * $3.5 million for research and development of high temperature superconducting generators. Research is being conducted at the University of South Carolina and in Greenville. * $2.25 million for further deployment of the South Carolina Army National Guard’s Vibration Management Enhancement Program, a maintenance diagnostic system, on Guard helicopters. * $2.1 million for the development of an advanced electric drive system for military vehicles. Development is done at facilities throughout South Carolina. ####
12.19.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced York Technical College will receive a $1.5 million grant for the construction of the Chester Technical Center. “This Center will be a vital component in the future economic development of Chester County,” said Graham. “It will provide specialized job training for local companies, and will help the County recruit new employers and create jobs.” “This funding provides a critical piece of York Tech's plan to educate and train workers of the future,” said DeMint. “I congratulate York Tech on their efforts to bring the Chester Technical Center to fruition.” The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
12.16.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on South Carolina’s unemployment figures. “The job losses we have suffered in South Carolina over the past few months are the result of a number of factors including the continued slump in domestic manufacturing. Unfortunately, it’s a phenomena occurring all over the country as our manufacturing sector has been hard-hit. “We’ve had some recent good news when it comes to new jobs locating in the state and I think these efforts will begin to pay off in the coming months. Governor Sanford and the State Department of Commerce’s efforts will create a better business climate and allow us to expand employment opportunities in the state.” #####
12.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, Senators Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) praised passage of S. Res. 332, a resolution “honoring the life of former Governor Carroll A. Campbell, and expressing the deepest condolences of the Senate to his family.” The resolution, authored by Senator DeMint and cosponsored by Senator Graham, was unanimously agreed to on Wednesday night. “South Carolina has lost one of her favorite sons,” said Graham. “Governor Campbell was a dedicated public servant, and I truly appreciate and admire all he has done for our state. His was a life well-lived, and I am pleased the Senate has honored his legacy.” “The nation lost a leader and a patriot, and I’ve lost a dear friend,” said Senator DeMint. “I’m proud that the entire Senate has paid tribute to Governor Campbell’s life of service. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family.” FULL TEXT OF S. RES. 332 IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES December 14, 2005 Mr. DEMINT (for himself and Mr. GRAHAM) submitted the following resolution; which was considered and agreed to -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- RESOLUTION Honoring the life of former Governor Carroll A. Campbell, and expressing the deepest condolences of the Senate to his family. Whereas the Senate has learned with sadness of the death of Governor Carroll Campbell; Whereas Carroll Campbell dedicated a lifetime of service to the State of South Carolina and the United States; Whereas Carroll Campbell served most honorably as the Governor of South Carolina from 1987 to 1995; Whereas from 1979, and until he was elected Governor of South Carolina, Carroll Campbell served with high moral character and integrity in the United States House of Representatives; Whereas Carroll Campbell was the first Republican elected to the House of Representatives for the 4th Congressional District since the Reconstruction period; Whereas during his service as Governor, Carroll Campbell provided extraordinary leadership and comfort to the citizens of South Carolina throughout the devastating aftermath of Hurricane Hugo and the rebuilding of the coast; Whereas Carroll Campbell improved the economy of South Carolina and the livelihood of its citizens by attracting world class businesses; Whereas Carroll Campbell worked diligently to restructure the Government of South Carolina, making it more accessible and responsive to its citizens; Whereas Carroll Campbell focused on improving the quality of public education provided by the State of South Carolina to all of its citizens; Whereas Carroll Campbell was as devoted to his principles as he was to his loving family, which included his wife Iris, his sons Carroll and Mike, and his grandchildren `Blakeney' Herlong Campbell, Carroll `Berrett' Campbell, Michael `Rhodes' Campbell, and Marie `Riley' Campbell; and Whereas Carroll Campbell was a visionary who worked to improve the lives of all South Carolinians: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the Senate-- (1) extends its prayers and deepest condolences to the entire Campbell family; (2) honors the life of Carroll Campbell and expresses profound gratitude for his years of public service; and (3) acknowledges with appreciation the unfaltering commitment and loyalty of Carroll Campbell to his family and the State of South Carolina. ###
12.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $230,000 in grants to fire departments across South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Blacksburg Buffalo Volunteer Fire Department will receive $34,912. Lugoff Pine Grove Volunteer Fire Department will receive $74,865. Pawleys Island Georgetown County Fire District II/Midway Fire Department will receive $127,802. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
12.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will be in Iraq this week. Graham will be part of a group of U.S. Senators observing the Iraqi elections. Other Senators expected to participate in the trip include Joe Biden (D-DE), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and Saxby Chambliss (R-GA). “I’m honored to represent our nation and witness history in the making,” said Graham. “I hope the Iraqis have a successful election in which there is widespread participation. All Americans want a successful election and to make that happen they need a good turnout and a fair process. “The Iraqi people going to the polls and choosing their elected representatives is a defining moment in the War on Terror,” said Graham. “While a successful election does not equal a functioning democracy, it is a huge step in the right direction.” #####
12.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement. “With the passing of Carroll Campbell, South Carolina has lost one of her favorite sons. “Governor Campbell reshaped South Carolina politics and was a trailblazer on many fronts. He was the first Governor to make an aggressive, successful effort to recruit large numbers of international businesses to our state and created a model we still follow today. He also helped reform and improve the way state government works for our citizens. “Republicans of my generation owe a debt of gratitude to Governor Campbell for his role in building the modern Republican Party. His very successful eight years as Governor helped lay the groundwork for the Republican takeover of the state legislature which occurred after he left office. “On the national front, he was a recognized leader and considered as a vice presidential candidate by several presidents. When Carroll Campbell spoke, people throughout the nation listened. “I truly appreciate and admire all he has done for our state. There’s no doubt his lifetime of work will continue to pay dividends to our state for years to come. “His was a life well-lived and my condolences go out to his wife and family. Our thoughts and prayers are with them at this time.” #####
11.30.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement following President Bush’s address on Iraq. “I’m pleased the President reinforced the message that we cannot leave Iraq before victory is achieved. As a nation we need to understand Iraq is part of the War on Terror and directly affects our national security. “The President made the case that a vibrant democracy in Iraq is the antidote to terrorism. The establishment of freedom in Iraq will not work with artificial timetables. However, I do believe progress reports on Iraqi troop training and security operations will be helpful as we move forward. “It would be a huge mistake to suggest to the terrorists fighting in Iraq that we will leave the Iraqi people before they have the capacity to protect their infant democracy from the wolves of terrorism. “If we fail in Iraq, it will only embolden the terrorists and be a body blow to those who are fighting and dying for democracy in the region.” #####
11.30.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $230,000 in grants to fire departments across South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Barnwell Long Branch Fire Department will receive $96,352. Belton Belton Fire Department will receive $133,760. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
11.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -– U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the Treasury Department’s currency report issued this afternoon. “It is obvious Chinese currency practices violate international monetary policy and are creating havoc for American manufacturers. To say congressional patience is running out on the currency issue is a tremendous understatement. “The concern China will not like being pressed to change their currency practices buys into the idea the world lives by one set of rules and China lives by another. “The Chinese cannot be part of the international community on their terms alone. When you do business with democracies where push-back is part of the economic and political process, you had better get used to being pressed to play by the rules. “In a give-and-take world, China only believes in taking. “China’s political sensibilities have been accommodated to the breaking point. It’s unhealthy to allow a country the size of China to be immune to criticism, particularly when they choose to not play by the rules. “Communists dictatorships rightly lost favor throughout the world in the 20th Century. I do not intend to help empower their renaissance in the 21st Century by allowing China’s communist dictatorship to play by a different set of rules. The Reagan model of negotiating through strength and honestly evaluating other nations would serve us well in our dealings with China. “I expect in the near future, unless some dramatic change occurs, the Congress will speak loudly and forcefully on China’s continuing currency manipulation.” #####
11.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on South Carolina’s October unemployment numbers. “Governor Sanford’s decision to create jobs in South Carolina by lowering taxes and controlling the size of government will pay great dividends. South Carolina has a heavy manufacturing-based economy, and the manufacturing sector has been hit hard throughout the country. “The addition of 29,000 people to our labor force in the past two months is encouraging and the Governor’s policies of energizing the private sector will continue to pay dividends if we stay the course. South Carolina’s economy will only grow if the private sector has the tools and resources necessary to create jobs. That is the heart of Governor Sanford’s economic reform proposals. “I am convinced that Governor Sanford’s policies will be successful in allowing the private sector to create more jobs.” South Carolina was reported to have a 6.9 percent unemployment rate in October. The rate is due in large part to rapid growth in the state’s labor force. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, South Carolina’s labor force has increased by more than 29,000 people in the past two months- nearly the same growth as the previous 14 months combined. ####
11.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, the United States Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2006 Transportation-Treasury-HUD Appropriations Bill containing several million dollars for South Carolina projects. Senators Jim DeMint and Lindsey Graham voted in favor of the bill, which passed by unanimous consent. The bill has passed the House of Representatives. “This bill provides funds to maintain our roads, highways and infrastructure,” said Senator DeMint. “These projects are important to South Carolina in order to maintain our quality of life and encourage economic development.” “I am proud that South Carolina’s delegation was able to work together to provide funding for these important projects,” said Senator Graham. “The programs funded by this bill address a wide range of needs in our state. This money will help improve our transportation infrastructure, a vital part of future economic development, as well as provide much needed funding for housing and community organizations that help maintain a healthy workforce.” Highlights of the bill include: Lowcountry Highway 278, Beaufort County, SC - $2,250,000 Charleston International Airport Parking Garage - $1,000,000 City of Charleston, SC for completed construction of the Spirit of South Carolina - $400,000 City of Walterboro, SC for construction of the great Swamp Sanctuary Discovery Center and associated streetscape - $300,000 Crisis Ministries Homeless Shelter in Charleston, SC for facilities renovation - $220,000 North Rhett Blvd Extension in Charleston, SC - $200,000 Town of St. Stephens, SC for renovation of the Berkeley Senior Center - $100,000 Progressive Club in John’s Island, SC for renovation of a multi-purpose building - $50,000 Grand Strand I-73 - $2,050,000 Choppee Regional Resource Center, Georgetown County, SC - $100,000 Pee Dee 1-95/327 improvements - $1,000,000 Security Improvements at Dillon County Airport - $500,000 Lee County I-20 Frontage Road US 15 to SC 341 - $400,000 Lee County, South Carolina for construction of a county recreation center - $250,000 National Council of Negro Women, Inc in Bishopville, South Carolina for construction of the Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune Memorial Park - $200,000 Marion County, South Carolina for constructing an outdoor wellness facility - $150,000 Boys and Girls Club of the Pee Dee in Florence, South Carolina for renovation and expansion of Florence and Sumter facilities - $100,000 Williamsburg County Boys and Girls Club in Hemingway, SC for expansion and upgrading of facilities - $75,000 Piedmont Trolley Study in Rock Hill - $400,000 City of Lancaster, SC for renovation of the “Hope on the Hill” adult education and afterschool center - $300,000 Upstate City of Greenville, South Carolina for the development of Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research - $500,000 Replace Milford Road Bridge in Anderson, SC - $500,000 Town of Greenwood, SC for renovation of the Old Federal Courthouse - $400,000 South Carolina School for the Deaf and Blind in Spartanburg, SC for dormitory renovation - $380,000 Roadway to improve Old Laurens Road, Laurens, SC $250,000 Upgrade Wells Highway/Sheep Farm Road Oconee SC - $250,000 Laurens County, South Carolina for the Hunter Industrial Park improvements - $60,000 Midlands Briggs Delaine Pearson Bridge Connector - $2,000,000 Pedestrian Walkway at SCSU and Claflin University - $1,700,000 SCDOT Vehicle Acquisition - $1,600,000 Assembly Street Railroad Relocation, Columbia, SC - $1,300,000 Bobby Jones/Palmetto Parkway, N. Augusta, SC - $1,000,000 Engenuity South Carolina in the City of Columbia for the National Institute of Hydrogen Commercialization - $1,000,000 Lexington Connector, SC - $893,000 I-26/US1 Airport Intermodal Connector, Lexington, SC - $750,000 Bible Way Community Development Corporation, Columbia, SC for construction of a multipurpose facility - $125,000 Aiken ILS Study at Aiken Municipal Airport - $100,000 Harden Street, Columbia, SC - $100,000 ###
11.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Yesterday, the United States Senate passed the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce and Justice, Science and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill that contains more than $44 million for South Carolina projects. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint voted in favor of the bill, which passed 94-5. This bill was passed by the House of Representatives last week and is expected to be signed into law by President Bush. “I am proud that South Carolina’s delegation was able to work together to provide funding for these important projects,” said Graham. “The programs funded by this bill will help our universities remain at the forefront of research, assist local law enforcement agencies, update infrastructure, and improve the quality of life for all South Carolinians.” "These funds will go toward increasing our local law enforcement officers’ ability to communicate with each other during emergencies," said Senator DeMint. Highlights of the bill include: Low Country $8 million for the Hollings Cancer Center at the Medical University of South Carolina $2.3 million for the Southern Shrimp Alliance $1.5 million for the South Carolina Coastal Initiative for land acquisition in Beaufort County $250,000 for the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources (SCDNR) for RecFIN $200,000 for Florence Crittenton in Charleston $150,000 for the Southeastern Law Enforcement Center for law enforcement technologies $100,000 for the Southeastern Law Enforcement Center’s Lowcountry Information Technology Improvement Project $50,000 for the Walterboro Sheriff’s Office $50,000 for Darkness to Light juvenile sexual abuse educational programs in Charleston Pee Dee $250,000 for Kingstree Law Enforcement Training $200,000 for the Myrtle Beach International Trade Center $50,000 for the Williamsburg Sheriff’s Department Midlands $4.5 million for prosecutorial training by the National Advocacy Center $2.05 million for Caro-Coops at the University of South Carolina $600,000 for the Richland County Learning Center $300,000 to develop a DNA forensics lab at Claflin University $50,000 for the Gang Intervention/Methamphetamine Initiative in Columbia $50,000 for the Town of Santee Police Department $50,000 for Sumter County Piedmont $300,000 for the Rock Hill Communications Center Upstate $13 million for the National Textile Center $150,000 for the Anderson County 800 MHz Communication Project $100,000 for the Clemson ICAR Innovation Center Statewide $8.2 million to Experimental Programs to Stimulate Competitive Research educational programs EPSCoR) at the University of South Carolina, Medical University of South Carolina and Clemson University $850,000 for SCDNR’s MARMAP- Marine Resources Monitoring Assessment and Prediction Program $467,000 for the Height Modernization Regional Expansion project for SC Budget and Control Board $300,000 for Southeastern Sea Turtles research for SCDNR ####
11.16.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Cooley Springs Fire Department in Chesnee will receive a $97,755 grant. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
11.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – South Carolina’s U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint along with Third District Representative Gresham Barrett today characterized next year’s funding for Savannah River Site as adequate to carry out the important operations of the Site. “Considering the pressure being placed on the federal budget because of the War on Terror and Gulf Coast hurricane relief efforts, I think we did as well as could be expected,” said Graham. “Funding for the Site this year is a mixed bag. We lost some fights and won others.” "Thanks to the leadership of Senator Graham and Congressman Barrett, we were able to fund the important needs of the Savannah River Site, including the necessary cleanup and moving forward on MOX," said Senator DeMint. "However, we must remain committed to new missions and ensuring full funding in future years." "We didn't get everything we had wanted, but in a time when everyone has been asked to cut back on spending I don't think we can complain about the overall funding levels," said Barrett. "As we move into 2006, I will continue to work with the other members of the delegation to secure the necessary funding to move forward on current projects and promote new missions." Among the highlights of the Energy and Water appropriations bill: The bill makes the Savannah River National Lab eligible for Laboratory Directed Research and Development (LDRD) funds. Eligibility for these funds will ensure that the Lab is able to capitalize on the enormous innovative potential of the work going on there. This funding will provide the resources necessary for lab employees to pursue innovative technologies and expand the mission of the lab. $1.17 billion for environmental cleanup. $220 million in funding for construction of the MOX fuel fabrication facility. Last month, the Department of Energy held a ceremony to mark the beginning of work clearing and prepping the area for construction and operation of the MOX facility. When completed, the start of the art facility will turn weapons-grade plutonium into fuel to make electricity at a commercial nuclear power plant. $24 million for the pit disassembly and conversion facility. $10 million for the melt and dilute technology for excess weapons-grade plutonium. $1 million for energy security and diversification at Savannah River National Lab (SRNL). Due to delays in the MOX program brought about by the lengthy negotiations over liability issues with the Russian Federation the conference report moves back the operative dates in the Thurmond-Graham language by three years. The bill eliminates funding for further development of a Modern Pit Facility. "In the face of strong opposition to MOX, the funding level we were able to secure is a big step forward, and I am hopeful Congressional leadership is learning the national significance of SRS," said Senator DeMint. "I'm disappointed with the decision to eliminate funding for further development of a Modern Pit Facility. There is no doubt in my mind that we need a MPF and that SRS has the expertise and infrastructure to support such a facility; however, I understand as good stewards of the taxpayer dollar we must determine the appropriate size and scope of the facility," said Barrett. "Additionally, we are committed to ensuring the MOX facility is constructed and operational in a timely fashion. Since the liability issues concerning MOX have been resolved this funding allows us to move forward." “The funding for MOX allows us to continue making progress in the construction and eventual operation of the facility,” said Graham. “Now that the liability issues and MOX budget have been addressed, I think we showed a good faith effort on our state’s part to update the schedule. The MPF decision was disappointing but I expect we may revisit this issue in the coming years as we determine our future nuclear deterrent needs. The biggest obstacle to MPF moving forward is that the Department of Defense will not tell us their pit needs. Without their input it will be difficult to justify a multi-billion dollar program.” #####
11.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- The United States Senate today passed the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill that contains more than $80 million for South Carolina projects. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint voted in favor of the bill, which passed 84-4. “I am proud of the delegation’s ability to secure federal funding for South Carolina’s infrastructure needs,” said Graham. “Over time, these projects will create jobs, encourage tourism, and provide for a healthier environment. I am a strong advocate of fiscal discipline, but equally believe South Carolina deserves her fair share of the pie for worthy projects.” "This bill provides funds to maintain our ports and secure some of South Carolina’s most important economic assets," said Senator DeMint. Highlights of the bill include: Low Country $9.934 million for operations and maintenance at Charleston Harbor $6 million for construction at Lakes Marion and Moultrie $2.615 million for operations and maintenance at the Cooper River/Charleston Harbor $2.234 million for beach erosion control at Morris Island Lighthouse $500,000 for biological and environmental research at the Medical University of South Carolina $413,000 for Corps of Engineers operations at Town Creek $60,000 for construction at Folly Beach $50,000 for investigations at the Santee Delta $23,000 for investigations at Edisto Island Pee Dee $3.6 million for operations and maintenance at Georgetown Harbor $1 million for South Science Development in Florence for biological and environmental research $205,000 for aquatic ecosystem restoration at the Lynches River/Lake City $154,000 for the planning phase of a hurricane and storm damage reduction project on Pawleys Island $75,000 for construction at Myrtle Beach $25,000 for a stormwater drainage study at Surfside Beach Midlands $9.942 million for operations and maintenance at Strom Thurmond Lake $5.7 million for major rehabilitation of the Thurmond Lake Powerhouse $4 million for Allen University $2 million for Claflin University $2 million for the University of South Carolina $1 million for Voorhees College $1 million for South Carolina State University $5,000 for an aquatic ecosystem restoration project at Pocotaligo Swamp Piedmont $36,000 for an aquatic ecosystem restoration project at Wilson Branch Upstate $14.957 million for operations and maintenance at Lake Hartwell $11.055 million for operations and maintenance at Richard B. Russell Lake $1.3 million for construction at the Richard B. Russell Dam $733,000 for major rehabilitation at the Hartwell Lake Powerhouse Statewide $2 million for operations and maintenance of the Atlantic Intracostal Waterway $50,000 for modeling of the Waccamaw River Watershed ####
11.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina will receive a $2,851,022 grant under the Emergency Management Performance Grant Program. The funds can be used to support state and local emergency management and to encourage the improvement of mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery capabilities for all hazards. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
11.10.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- Today, by a vote of 49-42, the United States Senate expressed support for an plan authored by Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) that strengthens the review process of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO) while clarifying that non-citizen terrorists do not have unlimited access to U.S. courts. After the vote Graham made the following statement. “I firmly believe that 9/11 was an act of war and not a crime. The detainees at GTMO are not American citizens facing criminal trial, rather, they are terrorists who have taken up arms against the United States. “There has never been a time in our military history where an enemy combatant or prisoner of war has been allowed access to federal court to bring lawsuits against the people they are fighting. Habeas corpus rights have never been given to an enemy combatant and the Senate today reaffirmed that principal. “Today the Senate voted to allow detainees a one-time appeal of their status to a single federal court and, at the same time, stopped the legal abuse. Currently, over 160 cases have been filed by terrorists suing our own troops over every action taken. The due process rights of enemy combatants at Guantanamo Bay are stronger than Geneva requirements, and with the addition of federal court review, are a model for the world. “It is not fair to our troops fighting in the War on Terror to be sued in every court in the land by our enemies based on every possible complaint. We have done nothing today but return to the basics of the law of armed conflict where we are dealing with enemy combatants not common criminals.” #### Graham Amendment Senator Lindsey Graham’s amendment strengthens the review process of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO) while clarifying that non-citizen terrorists do not have access to U.S. courts. The Current Situation at GTMO The detention status of all detainees at GTMO is assessed by an administrative process called the Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CSRT). CSRT determines the status of a detainee and whether they should be detained at GTMO as an unlawful enemy combatant. The CSRT is composed of three military officers. One officer is a judge advocate (military lawyer) while the senior ranking officer serves as president of the tribunal. Each detainee is assigned a military officer as a personal representative. The officer assists the detainee in preparing for the tribunal hearing. In the tribunal, detainees have the right to testify before the tribunal, call witnesses and introduce evidence. Following a hearing of testimony and introduction of evidence, the tribunal goes into closed-door session to determine whether the detainee is properly being termed an enemy combatant. Any detainee determined not to be an enemy combatant is transferred to their home country or handled in a manner consistent with domestic and international obligations and U.S. foreign policy. Enemy Combatants detained at GTMO also go before the Administrative Review Board (ARB) for an annual review of their status. The ARB is a three person panel comprised of military officers who determine if the individual is still an enemy combatant, still holds intelligence value or still presents a threat to the United States. What Reforms Are Proposed in the Amendment? The Graham amendment proposes several changes. They include: CSRT may not consider information that was proven by preponderance of the evidence to have been obtained with undue coercion. The Designated Civilian Official, the final authority on the Administrative Review Board, must be confirmed by the Senate. (Currently, the Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England) Under the Graham amendment the determination of the CSRT would be subject to review by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. This in an historic and unprecedented change. The amendment also contains a provision authorizing the Secretary of Defense to change the procedures as long as they give notice to Congress in advance of implementation. The CSRT / ARB Process and the Geneva Conventions Article 5 of the Third Geneva Convention of 1949 requires a party to an international armed conflict to use a "competent tribunal" to determine the status of a person when there is doubt as to whether the person qualifies as a Prisoner of War. While, by definition, Article 5 does not apply to Al Qaida (because they do not qualify as POW’s and are not part of a state party), the United States established the CSRT and ARB to address the due process concerns expressed by the Supreme Court. The CSRT and ARB procedures, especially with the changes required in this amendment, more than satisfy the requirement for a “competent tribunal” provided for in the Geneva Convention. The Need for Habeas Reform As it Concerns Enemy Combatants The Supreme Court’s Rasul (2004) decision held that federal courts have jurisdiction to hear habeas petitions from Guantanamo detainees. For the first time foreign terrorists in U.S. custody have begun claiming the rights and benefits of the U.S. Constitution, our laws, and treaties. Over 160 habeas petitions on behalf of approximately 300 detainees have been filed in federal court to date. An array of habeas challenges have been filed including those questioning the quality of their food and speed of mail delivery. Others have questioned the legality of their detention, propriety of returning a detainee to their home country, and allotment of exercise time. The Department of Justice is devoting tremendous resources to the litigation of habeas petitions filed by GTMO detainees. The federal suits are also slowing our intelligence gathering efforts from detainees. Michael Ratner, a lawyer who has filed lawsuits on behalf of numerous enemy combatants, boasts of this fact. He said, “The litigation is brutal for [the United States.] It’s huge. We have over one hundred lawyers now from big and small firms working to represent these detainees. Every time an attorney goes down there, it makes it much harder [for the U.S. military] to do what they’re doing. You can’t run an interrogation…with attorneys. What are they going to do now that we’re getting court orders to get more lawyers down there?” The amendment clarifies the previous understanding of the habeas statute that aliens outside the United States do not have access to our federal courts. The amendment only applies to NON-CITIZEN TERRORISTS. Examples of Habeas Petitions Filed on Behalf of Detainees 1. Canadian detainee who threw a grenade that killed an Army medic in firefight and who comes from family with longstanding al Qaeda ties moves for preliminary injunction forbidding interrogation of him or engaging in "cruel, inhuman, or degrading" treatment of him (n.b. this motion was denied by Judge Bates) 2. "Al Odah motion for dictionary internet security forms" -- Kuwaiti detainees seek court orders that they be provided dictionaries in contravention of GTMO's force protection policy and that their counsel be given high-speed internet access at their lodging on the base and be allowed to use classified DoD telecommunications facilities, all on the theory that otherwise their "right to counsel" is unduly burdened 3. "Alladeen -- Motion for TRO re transfer" -- Egyptian detainee who Combatant Status Review Tribunal adjudicated as no longer an enemy combatant, and who was therefore due to be released by the US, files motion to block his repatriation to Egypt 4. "Paracha -- Motion for PI re Conditions" -- Motion by high level al Qaeda detainee complaining about base security procedures, speed of mail delivery, and medical treatment; seeking an order that he be transferred to the "least onerous conditions" at GTMO and asking the court to order that GTMO allow him to keep any books and reading materials sent to him and to "report to the Court" on "his opportunities for exercise, communication, recreation, worship, etc." 5. "Motion for PI re Medical Records" -- Motion by detainee accusing military's health professionals of "gross and intentional medical malpractice" in alleged violation of the 4th, 5th, 8th, and 14th Amendments, 42 USC 1981, and unspecified international agreements. 6. "Abdah -- Emergency Motion re DVDs" -- "emergency" motion seeking court order requiring GTMO to set aside its normal security policies and show detainees DVDs that are purported to be family videos. 7. "Petitioners' Supp. Opposition" -- Filing by detainee requesting that, as a condition of a stay of litigation pending related appeals, the Court involve itself in his medical situation and set the stage for them to second-guess the provision of medical care and other conditions of confinement 8. "Al Odah Supplement to PI Motion" -- Motion by Kuwaiti detainees unsatisfied with the Koran they are provided as standard issue by GTMO, seeking court order that they be allowed to keep various other supplementary religious materials, such as a "tafsir" or 4-volume Koran with commentary, in their cells.
11.10.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- Today, by a vote of 49-42, the United States Senate expressed support for an plan authored by Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) that strengthens the review process of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO) while clarifying that non-citizen terrorists do not have unlimited access to U.S. courts. After the vote Graham made the following statement. “I firmly believe that 9/11 was an act of war and not a crime. The detainees at GTMO are not American citizens facing criminal trial, rather, they are terrorists who have taken up arms against the United States. “There has never been a time in our military history where an enemy combatant or prisoner of war has been allowed access to federal court to bring lawsuits against the people they are fighting. Habeas corpus rights have never been given to an enemy combatant and the Senate today reaffirmed that principal. “Today the Senate voted to allow detainees a one-time appeal of their status to a single federal court and, at the same time, stopped the legal abuse. Currently, over 160 cases have been filed by terrorists suing our own troops over every action taken. The due process rights of enemy combatants at Guantanamo Bay are stronger than Geneva requirements, and with the addition of federal court review, are a model for the world. “It is not fair to our troops fighting in the War on Terror to be sued in every court in the land by our enemies based on every possible complaint. We have done nothing today but return to the basics of the law of armed conflict where we are dealing with enemy combatants not common criminals.” Graham Amendment Senator Lindsey Graham’s amendment strengthens the review process of detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (GTMO) while clarifying that non-citizen terrorists do not have access to U.S. courts. The Current Situation at GTMO * The detention status of all detainees at GTMO is assessed by an administrative process called the Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CSRT). * CSRT determines the status of a detainee and whether they should be detained at GTMO as an unlawful enemy combatant. * The CSRT is composed of three military officers. One officer is a judge advocate (military lawyer) while the senior ranking officer serves as president of the tribunal. Each detainee is assigned a military officer as a personal representative. The officer assists the detainee in preparing for the tribunal hearing. * In the tribunal, detainees have the right to testify before the tribunal, call witnesses and introduce evidence. * Following a hearing of testimony and introduction of evidence, the tribunal goes into closed-door session to determine whether the detainee is properly being termed an enemy combatant. Any detainee determined not to be an enemy combatant is transferred to their home country or handled in a manner consistent with domestic and international obligations and U.S. foreign policy. * Enemy Combatants detained at GTMO also go before the Administrative Review Board (ARB) for an annual review of their status. The ARB is a three person panel comprised of military officers who determine if the individual is still an enemy combatant, still holds intelligence value or still presents a threat to the United States. What Reforms Are Proposed in the Amendment? The Graham amendment proposes several changes. They include: * CSRT may not consider information that was proven by preponderance of the evidence to have been obtained with undue coercion. * The Designated Civilian Official, the final authority on the Administrative Review Board, must be confirmed by the Senate. (Currently, the Acting Deputy Secretary of Defense Gordon England) * Under the Graham amendment the determination of the CSRT would be subject to review by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. This in an historic and unprecedented change. The amendment also contains a provision authorizing the Secretary of Defense to change the procedures as long as they give notice to Congress in advance of implementation. The CSRT / ARB Process and the Geneva Conventions * Article 5 of the Third Geneva Convention of 1949 requires a party to an international armed conflict to use a "competent tribunal" to determine the status of a person when there is doubt as to whether the person qualifies as a Prisoner of War. * While, by definition, Article 5 does not apply to Al Qaida (because they do not qualify as POW’s and are not part of a state party), the United States established the CSRT and ARB to address the due process concerns expressed by the Supreme Court. * The CSRT and ARB procedures, especially with the changes required in this amendment, more than satisfy the requirement for a “competent tribunal” provided for in the Geneva Convention. The Need for Habeas Reform As it Concerns Enemy Combatants * The Supreme Court’s Rasul (2004) decision held that federal courts have jurisdiction to hear habeas petitions from Guantanamo detainees. * For the first time foreign terrorists in U.S. custody have begun claiming the rights and benefits of the U.S. Constitution, our laws, and treaties. * Over 160 habeas petitions on behalf of approximately 300 detainees have been filed in federal court to date. * An array of habeas challenges have been filed including those questioning the quality of their food and speed of mail delivery. Others have questioned the legality of their detention, propriety of returning a detainee to their home country, and allotment of exercise time. The Department of Justice is devoting tremendous resources to the litigation of habeas petitions filed by GTMO detainees. * The federal suits are also slowing our intelligence gathering efforts from detainees. Michael Ratner, a lawyer who has filed lawsuits on behalf of numerous enemy combatants, boasts of this fact. He said, “The litigation is brutal for [the United States.] It’s huge. We have over one hundred lawyers now from big and small firms working to represent these detainees. Every time an attorney goes down there, it makes it much harder [for the U.S. military] to do what they’re doing. You can’t run an interrogation…with attorneys. What are they going to do now that we’re getting court orders to get more lawyers down there?” * The amendment clarifies the previous understanding of the habeas statute that aliens outside the United States do not have access to our federal courts. * The amendment only applies to NON-CITIZEN TERRORISTS. Examples of Habeas Petitions Filed on Behalf of Detainees * Canadian detainee who threw a grenade that killed an Army medic in firefight and who comes from family with longstanding al Qaeda ties moves for preliminary injunction forbidding interrogation of him or engaging in "cruel, inhuman, or degrading" treatment of him (n.b. this motion was denied by Judge Bates). * "Al Odah motion for dictionary internet security forms" -- Kuwaiti detainees seek court orders that they be provided dictionaries in contravention of GTMO's force protection policy and that their counsel be given high-speed internet access at their lodging on the base and be allowed to use classified DoD telecommunications facilities, all on the theory that otherwise their "right to counsel" is unduly burdened. * "Alladeen -- Motion for TRO re transfer" -- Egyptian detainee who Combatant Status Review Tribunal adjudicated as no longer an enemy combatant, and who was therefore due to be released by the US, files motion to block his repatriation to Egypt. * "Paracha -- Motion for PI re Conditions" -- Motion by high level al Qaeda detainee complaining about base security procedures, speed of mail delivery, and medical treatment; seeking an order that he be transferred to the "least onerous conditions" at GTMO and asking the court to order that GTMO allow him to keep any books and reading materials sent to him and to "report to the Court" on "his opportunities for exercise, communication, recreation, worship, etc." * "Motion for PI re Medical Records" -- Motion by detainee accusing military's health professionals of "gross and intentional medical malpractice" in alleged violation of the 4th, 5th, 8th, and 14th Amendments, 42 USC 1981, and unspecified international agreements. * "Abdah -- Emergency Motion re DVDs" -- "emergency" motion seeking court order requiring GTMO to set aside its normal security policies and show detainees DVDs that are purported to be family videos. * "Petitioners' Supp. Opposition" -- Filing by detainee requesting that, as a condition of a stay of litigation pending related appeals, the Court involve itself in his medical situation and set the stage for them to second-guess the provision of medical care and other conditions of confinement. * "Al Odah Supplement to PI Motion" -- Motion by Kuwaiti detainees unsatisfied with the Koran they are provided as standard issue by GTMO, seeking court order that they be allowed to keep various other supplementary religious materials, such as a "tafsir" or 4-volume Koran with commentary, in their cells.
11.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced Central Community Volunteer Fire Department in Aiken will receive a $128,525 grant. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
11.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Conway Fire Department will receive a $442,524 grant to hire and recruit firefighters. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments recruit and retain qualified professionals who are willing to risk their lives for others.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The SAFER fire grant program supports the hiring of full time firefighters and supports the recruitment and retention of volunteer fire fighters. Each award will require a five year performance period that will include a local matching requirement that increases over time, as follows: 10 percent in year one, 20 percent in year two, 50 percent in year three and 70 percent in year four. Grantees will be required to retain and bear the full cost of new hires for a minimum of one year beyond the fourth year of federal support. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
11.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today voted in favor of the Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2006 that contains more than $8.1 million for South Carolina related projects. The bill passed the Senate 81-18, and was approved by the House last week. “I am pleased that our Congressional delegation worked together to secure funding for these projects,” said Graham. South Carolina related projects funded in the bill include: Charleston $2 million for modernization of the U.S. Vegetable Laboratory $50,000 for research on integrated disease management strategies on livestock and crops Clemson University $1.19 million for a land use change study $282,000 for crop/pest interaction study $278,000 for peach tree short life study Florence $100,000 increase in funding for swine lagoon alternatives research at the Agricultural Research Station (ARS) The bill provides language permitting the purchase of land by the ARS research laboratory Orangeburg County The bill directs the Department of Agriculture to give consideration to applications submitted by the county for grants and loans to be used for rural development. South Carolina Related $4.2 million for the Shrimp Aquaculture The bill is expected to be signed into law by President Bush. ####
10.31.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the nomination of Judge Samuel Alito to the Supreme Court. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “Judge Alito is one of the most distinguished individuals to ever be nominated to the Supreme Court. His qualifications are beyond reproach. As a judge, he has compiled a long track record showing he is a strict constructionist. With this choice President Bush continues to fulfill his campaign promise to appoint strict constructionists to the Supreme Court. “The American people have rejected liberal judicial activism from the federal bench. I believe some of the over-the-top criticisms from some Democrat Senators are the result of frustration with the fact President Bush, through the ballot box, earned the right to select a Supreme Court nominee. These criticisms speak more to some Democratic Senators problems with the president than they do with the nominee. “John Roberts was a home run by the President and he will serve the country well for decades to come. The nomination of Judge Alito is equally impressive in terms of his qualifications and judicial philosophy which are very much in line with what the American people embraced in the last presidential election. “Efforts to filibuster this nomination based on his conservative judicial philosophy will only serve to weaken all three branches of our government. Filibusters based on ideology or judicial philosophy, if utilized by both parties, will create a Middle East style of politics in the Senate. “If that standard was used in the past, many conservatives would have surely filibustered Justice [Ruth Bader] Ginsberg. They would have looked not at her qualifications, but rather her legal and political philosophy. From a subjective view, she was clearly out of the mainstream of American jurisprudence. I think liberals would have tried to apply such a standard to Justice [Antonin] Scalia who conservative views were well-known. “When John Roberts was confirmed to his position as Chief Justice, he applauded the Senate for understanding the difference between politics and being a judge. I hope Senators understand that advising and consenting is different than selecting. None of us, through the process of advising and consenting, should invalidate the election giving the President the ability to nominate well-qualified judges consistent with their campaign promises to the American people. “I’m hopeful the Senate will honor the results of the last election and give this well-qualified nominee a full and vigorous hearing followed by a fair up-or-down vote on the Senate floor. To do any less would result in long-term damage to the Presidency and the Senate.” #####
10.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement. “From this indictment there seems to be no indication there was ever any criminal intent – either individually or as part of a conspiracy -- to publicly expose a CIA operatives identity in violation of federal law. “It was proper for Mr. Libby to resign from his position while charges are pending against him. It is equally proper that politics be parked at the courthouse door so he may receive a fair trial. As the substance of the charges work their way through the court, I believe it is appropriate the Mr. Libby be giving the presumption of innocence like every American.” #####
10.27.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the withdrawal of Harriet Miers as a candidate for the Supreme Court. “Harriet Miers was a fine nominee to the Supreme Court. She’s an able lawyer and a role model for many young women. Many of the criticisms leveled against her were off-base and some were not respectful of the life she lived. She broke many glass ceilings and deserves credit for her many accomplishments. “Unfortunately, the confirmation process is very rough. She had legitimate concerns about the upcoming fight over access to White House documents. When the President appoints his lawyer to the Supreme Court, the Senate is going to want to know how she conducted herself as his counsel. Sensing this divide would be a difficult one to overcome, she decided to put the interests of the President above her own personal interests. I applaud her for making this tough decision and her willingness to serve her country. “I hope President Bush will again give serious consideration to selecting a woman to fill this vacancy. There are many well-qualified, strict constructionists who would serve our nation well on the Court.” #####
10.26.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $1.4 million in grants to fire departments across South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” “I’m pleased to announce these grants that are important to the brave firefighters that risk their lives for the families of South Carolina,” said Senator DeMint. The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Belvedere Belvedere Volunteer Fire Department will receive $93,413. Blacksburg Blacksburg Fire Department will receive $42,418. Cope Edisto Volunteer Fire Department will receive $38,067. Denmark Denmark Volunteer Fire Department will receive $69,037. Honea Path Honea Path Fire Department will receive $94,847. Lexington Lexington County Fire Service will receive $700,000. Moncks Corner Pimlico Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive $45,867. Piedmont Piedmont Volunteer Fire Department will receive $147,748. Seneca Corinth-Shiloh Volunteer Fire Department will receive $190,028. Union City of Union Department of Public Safety will receive $73,530. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
10.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the passing of Rosa Parks. “All Americans owe a great debt to Mrs. Parks for her courage and willingness to make our country face injustice. She is part of a long line of American heroes who through individual acts of courage have made our country a better place.” ####
10.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- Today, U.S. Senators Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) and Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) announced proposed spending reductions to help pay for damages caused by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Graham and DeMint were joined in the effort by five of their colleagues including Senators Sam Brownback (R-Kan.), Tom Coburn (R-Okla) John Ensign (R-Nev.), John McCain (R-Ariz.), and John Sununu (R-N.H.). “It’s unfair to stick future generations of Americans with the bill for solving problems that occur on our watch,” said Graham. “I’m proud to be a part of this long overdue effort to set better priorities in spending.” “We had a Category 4 hurricane hit our shores, but if we don’t address our runaway spending, we’re going to have a Category 5 fiscal storm hit our children and grandchildren,” said Senator DeMint. “The American people don’t want any more excuses, and they don’t want to hear congressmen and senators arguing about who is to blame. We have real problems that require tough decisions.” The proposed federal spending reductions include the following actions: 5 percent reduction in all federal spending programs except those which impact national security, with 1 percent set aside for funding of essential programs. A freeze on cost-of-living adjustments for federal employees, including Members of Congress, with the exception of law enforcement and military personnel. An elimination of earmarked projects included as part of the Highway Bill. A two-year delay in implementation of the Medicare prescription drug benefit. A requirement that those with higher incomes pay higher Medicare Part B premiums in 2006, rather than in 2007 as currently scheduled. The package of offsets proposed today could save the American taxpayers between $70 – 125 billion. “We need bold leadership to set priorities and get our fiscal house in order,” said Senator DeMint. “Americans expect us to anticipate problems and fix them while we still can. That’s why we must offset this relief as a downpayment toward fiscal responsibility.” “Reducing federal spending will prevent additional borrowing and require Congress to do what all families and businesses have to do in their lives and that's set priorities,” said Graham. “The proposed spending reductions are a fair and necessary culture change for Congress.” ###
10.24.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of Ben Bernanke to serve as Chairman of the Federal Reserve. “I have a great deal of confidence in President Bush for selecting Ben Bernanke to this important position. I hope he will continue the pro-growth policies Alan Greenspan championed as Fed Chairman. If he is confirmed by the Senate, I hope he’ll focus on the need for us to control spending and reform entitlements. These are critical areas that must be addressed as we seek to secure our nation’s economic future and the Fed Chairman will play an important role in helping push Congress to action. “From a South Carolina point of view, I’m proud of his connections to our state.” #####
10.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased Roche Pharmaceuticals has agreed to work toward increasing production of Tamiflu. Tamiflu is the only known effective treatment for avian flu and Roche holds the exclusive rights to manufacture the drug. Graham was one of three negotiators trying to reach an agreement. The group included Roche CEO George Abercrombie and Senator Chuck Schumer (D-New York). Roche has a production facility in Florence, South Carolina. “As a result of this agreement, lives may be saved in the coming months,” said Graham. “Many experts believe it’s only a matter of time before a pandemic flu occurs. Tamiflu, produced by Roche, is the best remedy we have available at this time. We must ensure we are prepared.” “Roche’s willingness to sub-license the vaccine to generic drug companies will increase world-wide stockpiles,” said Graham. “It’s was the ultimate act of good corporate citizenship on Roche’s part.” The agreement states: Four companies – Teva Pharmaceuticals, Barr Labratories, Mylan Labratories and Ranbaxy Labratories – will meet with representatives from Roche. The companies believe they can produce Tamiflu if given the chance and want to step up to serve the global public health need by working in cooperation with Roche. Roche will also meet with additional pharmaceutical companies in cooperation with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to discuss producing more Tamiflu. Roche agreed to sub-license production of Tamiflu to any of these companies that can produce it in quantities large enough to help meet the anticipated demand in case of a flu outbreak. The determination as to who gets licensed will be made in cooperation with the U.S. government and other governments around the world. Roche will make reasonable efforts to work with companies who demonstrate appropriate capabilities to manufacture Tamiflu in order to accelerate product supply. For companies eligible for a sub-license, Roche agrees to negotiate equitable terms. “The agreement is an example of the private sector and government working together to serve the people,” said Graham. “Roche thought of every reason to make it happen and not reasons why it couldn’t. As negotiated, this agreement is mutually beneficial for both the public health sector and the company. I’ve been very pleased to be part of something like this.” #####
10.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Midlands Technical College will receive a $1,964,563 grant to support the school’s health sciences programs. The Community Based Job Training Initiative grant will help match students with service organizations that will provide clinical experiences and career development opportunities. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Labor. ####
10.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Richland County will receive more than $2.2 million in housing grants. Richland County will receive a $1,562,996 Community Development Block Grant, $619,548 for the HOME Investment Partnership Program, and $28,529 for the American Dream Down Payment Initiative. The Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. The American Dream Down Payment Initiative promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to lower-income and minority households. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
10.19.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Winchester Conservation Museum in Edgefield will receive $497,050 in federal funds to expand the museum. Graham secured the funds in the fiscal year 2004 appropriations process and was recently notified of the forthcoming delivery of funds. The funds will be awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
10.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after President Bush signed the Department of Homeland Security Act of 2006 into law. Graham attended the White House ceremony that took place earlier this afternoon. Graham said: “The Homeland Security bill includes real changes that will help secure our border. As a result of this legislation, we’ll be hiring 1,000 new border agents, expediting the return of illegal immigrants further from our southern border, and increasing the penalties for employers and those involved in smuggling illegal aliens.” “The bill authorizes billions of dollars for improved border security through better technology, a larger border control force, and the building of additional physical barriers all of which should contribute to better border security. It’s the first step in a long process to secure America’s borders.” ####
10.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement after President Bush signed the Department of Homeland Security Act of 2006 into law. Graham attended the White House ceremony that took place earlier this afternoon. Graham said: “The Homeland Security bill includes real changes that will help secure our border. As a result of this legislation, we’ll be hiring 1,000 new border agents, expediting the return of illegal immigrants further from our southern border, and increasing the penalties for employers and those involved in smuggling illegal aliens.” “The bill authorizes billions of dollars for improved border security through better technology, a larger border control force, and the building of additional physical barriers all of which should contribute to better border security. It’s the first step in a long process to secure America’s borders.” ####
10.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Old Exchange Commission in Charleston will receive a $250,000 grant and the Historic Beaufort Foundation will receive $230,000. The Old Exchange Commission will use the funds to support the repair of cracked and delaminated stucco and masonry at the Old Exchange and Provost. The Historic Beaufort Foundation will use the funds to repair damaged exterior stucco at the Beaufort Arsenal. The Save America’s Treasures grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Interior’s National Park Service. #####
10.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Old Exchange Commission in Charleston will receive a $250,000 grant and the Historic Beaufort Foundation will receive $230,000. The Old Exchange Commission will use the funds to support the repair of cracked and delaminated stucco and masonry at the Old Exchange and Provost. The Historic Beaufort Foundation will use the funds to repair damaged exterior stucco at the Beaufort Arsenal. The Save America’s Treasures grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Interior’s National Park Service. ####
10.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint announced the Senate approved $131 million in South Carolina related defense projects. The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2006 Defense Appropriations Bill. “South Carolina is one of the most patriotic states in the nation,” said Graham. “The men and women of this state give their time and talent to defend our nation and help ensure the armed forces have the most state-of-the-art equipment. I am pleased so many South Carolina related projects have been recognized for the contributions they make to our war-fighting capability. South Carolina is truly a leader in helping win the War on Terror.” “South Carolina has always played a vital role in keeping our nation free,” said DeMint. “I'm proud that our courageous men and women in uniform will be properly equipped to fight the War on Terror and to protect the homeland.” Projects funded in the bill include: Lowcountry $28 million for the purchase of two C-17 Maintenance Training Systems produced in Summerville. $6 million for the purchase of Quadruple Specialty Containers produced in Charleston. $6 million for the development of the Joint Threat Warning System, an air communication surveillance system that provides direct warning to aircrafts operating over hostile territory, enhancing situational awareness and increasing aircrew survivability and the probability of mission success. Development is based in Charleston. $4.5 million for the South Carolina Research Authority to support the Lean Munitions program in Charleston. Lean Munitions will result in ammunition being produced in a timelier and cost efficient manner. $4 million for the development of an automated container and cargo handling system. The Autolog System will be able to transfer containers from ship-to-ship or ship-to-lighter/dock. Development is based in Charleston. $3.5 million for the Critical Infrastructure Protection Center in Charleston. $3 million for the development of vaccines for multivalent dengue viruses in Charleston. Upstate $4 million to upgrade Combat Casualty Care Equipment, including personnel kits and on-board kits for tactical vehicles. The main production facility is located in Greenville. $3.5 million for the South Carolina Research Authority to research and develop an active coating technology that adapts in real time to the surrounding situation and environment. The program will be based at Clemson University. $3.5 million for development of the Advanced Warfighter Sustainment Systems for the 21st Century (AWSS-21). AWSS-21 will provide better packaged and more nutritious food to our soldiers in the field. Research is conducted at Clemson University and in Gray Court. Midlands $9 million for the purchase of M249 SAW machine guns for the (Army or Marines) and $5 million for the (Army or Marines). The M249 is produced in Columbia. $2.5 million for the University of South Carolina to conduct brain imaging and deception detection research. Piedmont $2.5 million for the development of high modulus carbon fibers in Rock Hill. $2 million to purchase portable tent lighting produced in Clover. Statewide $20 million to support the Up-Armored HMMWV and Tactical Truck Crew Trainer Program in the Army National Guard. $7 million for the purchase of All Terrain Military Utility Vehicles (M-Gator) for the Army National Guard. $5 million for the purchase of All Terrain Military Utility Vehicles (M-Gator) for the Army. $5 million for research and development of high temperature superconducting generators. Research is being conducted at the University of South Carolina and in Greenville. $4.5 million for further deployment of the South Carolina Army National Guard’s Vibration Management Enhancement Program, a maintenance diagnostic system, on Guard helicopters. $4 million for research and development of a hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier for out-of-hospital resuscitation of patients with severe hemorrhagic shock. $3.5 million for the development of an advanced electric drive system for military vehicles. Development is done at facilities throughout South Carolina. The bill must now be approved by a joint House/Senate conference committee. ####
10.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202) 224-5972 or Kevin Bishop (864) 250-1417 Aside from fighting the War on Terror, President Bush’s appointment of judges to the federal bench -- including two Supreme Court justices -- will be the defining legacy of his time in office. Like President Bush, I want judges who make good decisions based upon the law as written. I don’t want them to make new laws or take the law into their own hands. That role should be left to elected representatives in Congress and the President. As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee for the past three years, I’ve had a front-row seat in the confirmation process of judges and I’m very concerned about what I see happening. The Senate seems to be getting away from judging a nominee’s experience, ethics, character, temperament and qualifications. We increasingly want to administer political allegiance tests to judicial nominees. This new standard wants potential judges to agree with a Senators values and beliefs in return for a vote for confirmation. The Senate didn’t always operate this way. Justice Antonin Scalia, a conservative nominated by former President Reagan, and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg, a liberal nominated by former President Clinton, are both examples of nominees who were qualified for their positions and received overwhelming votes (98 for Scalia, 96 for Ginsberg) -- even though may Senators did not agree with their legal philosophies. A prime example of our new standard was the recent confirmation of John Roberts as the 17th Chief Justice of the United States. There’s no doubt President Bush chose wisely when he nominated him for the position as Roberts was a well-qualified nominee who may be the best legal mind in the country today. However I was greatly concerned by the fact he did not receive an overwhelming, near-unanimous vote in the Judiciary Committee (13-5) or on the Senate floor (78-22) like previous nominees. What was equally disturbing was some of the comments made by Senators who voted against him. He was called “incredible, probably one of the most schooled appellate lawyers at least in his generation,” “well qualified, well-spoken, unflappable,” “an outstanding lawyer, well educated and serious,” “obviously qualified in his legal education and litigation experience,” “Earnest, incredibly intelligent, a superb lawyer,” “brilliant, accomplished,” and “a judge who will be loyal and faithful to the process of law.” If being intelligent, brilliant, a superb lawyer, the greatest legal mind of your generation, personally decent and well qualified for the position is not enough then what is? There’s no doubt this new standard some Senators are adopting is bad for the judiciary and will prove to be bad for the country.
10.11.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint secured more than $79 million for military construction projects in South Carolina in the Senate’s Fiscal Year 2006 Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. “As we have recently witnessed, the men and women of our armed forces have a dual role in protecting this nation,” said Graham. “They defend our interests abroad and are called upon to respond in times of crisis at home. The projects funded in this bill recognize the dual nature of our military and demonstrate a commitment to providing state-of-the-art facilities for training and medical care.” "South Carolina is the best place in the nation for the military to live, train, and support our global war on terror and this bill helps ensure we continue this tradition," said Senator DeMint. "Our men and women in uniform risk their lives to protect us, and they deserve our highest support." The bill provides $10,298,000 for the South Carolina National Guard Readiness Center in Charleston. This project will be constructed in partnership with The Citadel and will be located on its campus. The Center will serve as the headquarters of the 218th Infantry Brigade (Mechanized) and will serve as an emergency operations center in the event of a hurricane or flood. The Citadel will contribute 25 percent of the total project cost. Other projects in the bill include: $35,000,000 for a consolidated medical clinic in Charleston. $15,524,000 for the Army Reserve Center in Greenville. $9,730,000 for the U.S. Central Command Air Forces Communications Squadron Facility at Shaw Air Force Base. $6,424,000 for the Marine Corps Reserve Center in Charleston. $2,583,000 for the fitness center at Charleston Air Force Base. The bill must now be approved by a joint House/Senate conference committee and signed into law by the President. ####
10.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina)’s amendment to the defense spending bill passed the Senate late last night. The amendment passed by unanimous consent. “The United States desperately needs effective detention and interrogation policies,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “We need good intelligence and we need to keep terrorists off the battlefield. I’m confident we can do this while living up to the high standards we have always adhered to as a nation.” The major provisions of the Graham amendment include: The President would be required to submit to Congress the procedures for the Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CSRT) and the Annual Review Board (ARB) at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (Gitmo). The CSRT is the tribunal that determines whether a detainee is an unlawful enemy combatant. The ARB reviews the combatant’s status on an annual basis to determine if the individual is an enemy combatant, still holds intelligence value and/or, still presents a threat to the United States. The amendment requires the president to make two changes to current procedures. First, the Designated Civilian Official responsible for overseeing detainees in U.S. custody would require Senate confirmation. Second, the CSRT and ARB may not consider statements obtained with undue coercion when determining the status of a detainee. The president is also given flexibility to update CSRT and ARB procedures by giving Congress 30 days notice. “We must have procedures in place at Gitmo that will keep terrorists off the battlefield as long as necessary to protect our nation,” said Graham. “Without congressional authority we run a real risk a federal court will either take over or impede our efforts at Gitmo. We are winning in some courts and losing in others. I firmly believe the Executive branch will fair better in court now that Congress has given guidance regarding the operations at Gitmo.” “My amendment reforms and legitimizes the current system in use at Gitmo,” said Graham. “It bolsters the case in federal court that enemy combatant status is a proper and legal term. It also strengthens the legal case that conferring enemy combatant status on terrorists is a recognized legal concept.” Graham’s amendment, along with one introduced by U.S. Senator John McCain (R-Arizona), were both approved last night by the Senate. The McCain amendment, which passed 90-9, requires interrogation procedures to be followed as outlined in the Army Field Manual and prohibits the use of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment of anyone in military custody. “We’re trying to create certainty from chaos,” said Graham. “The amendments give guidance to our troops to ensure they don’t get into legal trouble while detaining and interrogating terrorists. The McCain amendment will be invaluable in assisting our own troops in understanding the policies of interrogation. I firmly believe the confusion created in the past will be resolved by using the Army Field Manual as the standardized method of interrogating enemy combatants.” “Our troops will have guidance as to what the rules are and hopefully it will provide them protection when carrying out their duties when interrogating enemy combatants,” said Graham. “We don’t want our troops to run afoul of the law inadvertently.” #####
10.05.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Talatha Rural Community Water District and the City of New Ellenton will receive a $1,517,511 grant for water and sewer infrastructure improvements. The funds will be used to construct a new well, a 600,000-gallon elevated water tank, 4,000 linear feet of 12-inch water line, and 8,000 linear feet of gravity sewer line. The improvements will serve a manufacturing facility. “Adequate infrastructure is a major factor in future economic development,” said Graham. “This is an investment in the community and will have an impact for years to come.” The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
10.05.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $325,000 in grants to fire departments across South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Latta Dillon County Fire Department Area 2 will receive $74,052. Liberty Walker McEmoyle Fire Department will receive $94,150. North Charleston City of North Charleston Fire Department will receive $67,528. Spartanburg City of Spartanburg Public Safety Department will receive $90,666. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
10.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) will receive $9,820,650 for construction of the Hollings Cancer Center. “Cancer is the second leading cause of death in South Carolina, and MUSC is on the cutting edge of cancer prevention, detection, and treatment,” said Graham. “This facility will allow MUSC to better serve our state and help many of our citizens battling cancer.” The funding was included in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Graham noted that earlier this year he secured $8 million for the Hollings Cancer Center in the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill. That bill has been approved by the Senate and must now be approved by a joint House/Senate conference committee. ####
10.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced four school districts in South Carolina will receive more than $625,000 in grant money to help develop emergency response plans in schools. The funds will be used to improve and strengthen school emergency response and crisis management plans. Recipients must address all four phases of crisis response planning: prevention/mitigation, preparedness, response, and recovery. In addition, grant recipients must provide training to school personnel and students, coordinate with local law enforcement, have a plan for communicating policies and procedures to parents, and take into consideration the needs of disabled students. Grant recipients include: Fairfield County School District- $100,000 Georgetown County School District- $245,449 Lexington and Richland Counties School District Five- $147,927 Rock Hill School District Three- $132,371 The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
10.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Clemson University will receive a $799,938 grant to provide support and funding to local faith-based and community organizations. As a recipient of a Compassion Capital Fund Demonstration Program grant, Clemson will serve as a bridge between the federal government and faith-based and community organizations. The University will provide training and technical assistance as well as small financial awards ranging anywhere from $5,000 to $40,000. Clemson is one of 45 intermediary organizations nationwide. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
10.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $650,000 in grants for two organizations in South Carolina to assist victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. “Domestic violence remains a major problem in South Carolina,” said Graham. “We have a responsibility to do all we can to assist victims and prosecute offenders.” The National College of District Attorneys in Columbia will receive a $400,000 grant. The funds will be used to sponsor the Fifteenth Annual National Conference on Domestic Violence. The conference is expected to be attended by approximately 1,000 attendees and will focus on providing the tools necessary to help victims rebuild their lives. The South Carolina Centers for Equal Justice in Columbia will receive a $252,590 grant. The funds will be used to provide on-site advocacy, improved legal services, and specialized training for attorneys in the areas of domestic violence and sexual assault. This project is a collaboration between South Carolina Centers for Equal Justice and other victim services organizations including the Pee Dee Coalition Against Domestic and Sexual Assault, Cumbee Center to Assist Abused Persons, Laurens County Safe Home, Safe Passage, SAFE Homes-Rape Crisis Coalition, and My Sister’s House. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
10.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced two South Carolina organizations will receive more than $460,000 in grants to support employment programs for persons with disabilities. The South Carolina Vocational Rehabilitation Department will receive $252,924 to recruit, train, and maintain twenty “Disability Specialists” who can serve as coaches and mentors for rehabilitation staff throughout the state. These specialists will have the skills necessary to better serve those with the most significant disabilities, including spinal cord injury, brain injury, deafness, and mental illness. The Disability Action Center, Inc. (DAC) in Columbia will receive $207,109 to help increase opportunities for people with disabilities to enter competitive employment in the residential construction industry. DAC with partner with the National Association of Homebuilders and the Home Builders Institute for this project. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
10.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the University of South Carolina (USC) will receive more than $2.2 million dollars in grants to support health care and medical research programs. Grants awarded include: $1,585,298 to support efforts to eliminate disparities in health care. $329,871 for drug abuse research. $295,387 for genomics and biomedical research. All grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
10.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on President Bush’s selection of Harriet Miers to serve as a justice on the Supreme Court of the United States. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “President Bush has made a solid pick for the Supreme Court. “Harriet Miers has been in the legal trenches throughout her career and has a tremendous understanding of how the law works in people’s everyday lives. Her legal experience combined with her life experience makes her a solid choice. “I hope for and anticipate a smooth confirmation process with a significant bipartisan vote in support. In my opinion, there will be no filibuster as she is a mainstream conservative who will be a strict constructionist on the Supreme Court. “I expect the liberal left to make demands upon the Administration to produce information protected by attorney-client privilege. Efforts such as these to derail a qualified nominee like Miers should fail.” ####
09.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, Senators Jim DeMint and Lindsey Graham and Congressman Joe Wilson announced a $500,000 grant from the Economic Development Administration for the May River Technology Park in the Town of Bluffton, South Carolina. The funding will allow for the construction of infrastructure in the development of the Technology Park and is the final step towards getting the Technology Park underway. The South Carolina Department of Commerce, Palmetto Electric and Beaufort County have also contributed significant funding to the project. CareCore National, LLC plans to expand and create jobs in Bluffton and will serve as the anchor tenant in the technology park. CareCore has agreed to create 150 new jobs. The jobs to be created by CareCore LLC have an average minimum wage of $30,000/per year. CareCore has also agreed to contribute $2.8M toward the construction and equipment for Building One in the park and sign a 10-year lease purchase agreement. The CareCore National expansion will provide new projected payroll of approximately $5 million and will inject approximately $10 million in additional revenue into the South Carolina economy. “This is exciting news for Bluffton and the surrounding community,” said Senator Graham. “Ensuring we have the necessary infrastructure in place is a vital component of our economic development efforts. This investment will hopefully pay dividends for years to come.” “I am thrilled about this funding and the economic impact it will have in the Lowcountry,” said Congressman Wilson. “Bluffton families are now one step closer to having access to hundreds of new jobs, opportunities, and resources through the Technology Park.” “This project is critical to providing quality jobs to the people of the Lowcountry,” said Senator DeMint. “I congratulate the Mayor of Bluffton for his efforts to secure these funds.” “On behalf of Bluffton, we thank Senator DeMint, Senator Graham and Congressman Wilson for their advocacy and tenacity in helping bring federal funding to the May River Technology Park,” said Mayor Hank Johnston. “We are very pleased the US Department of Commerce has recognized the significant role the Technology Park will play in diversifying the region’s economy.” About the EDA The mission of the EDA is to lead the federal economic development agenda by promoting innovation and competitiveness, preparing American regions for growth and success in the worldwide economy. The Economic Development Administration (EDA) was established under the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. § 3121), as amended, to generate jobs, help retain existing jobs, and stimulate industrial and commercial growth in economically distressed areas of the United States. EDA assistance is available to rural and urban areas of the Nation experiencing high unemployment, low income, or other severe economic distress. In fulfilling its mission, EDA is guided by the basic principle that distressed communities must be empowered to develop and implement their own economic development and revitalization strategies. Based on these locally- and regionally-developed priorities, EDA works in partnership with state and local governments, regional economic development districts, public and private nonprofit organizations, and Indian tribes. EDA helps distressed communities address problems associated with long-term economic distress, as well as sudden and severe economic dislocations including recovering from the economic impacts of natural disasters, the closure of military installations and other Federal facilities, changing trade patterns, and the depletion of natural resources. ###
09.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement following the confirmation of John Roberts as the 17th Chief Justice of the United States. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “I’m pleased Judge Roberts was confirmed today by the U.S. Senate. He is a well-qualified nominee and may be the best legal mind in the country. There’s no doubt President Bush knocked it out of the park when he selected John Roberts. I think most Americans will feel comfortable knowing he will be judging their cases on the Supreme Court. “As for the Senate, I think the body acquitted itself well during the confirmation process and upheld the best traditions of the Senate. A few months ago, I would have never believed that was possible. “As we look to the future, we should note President Clinton had two opportunities to appoint justices to the Supreme Court. He chose the general counsel of the ACLU and a Democratic staffer. Those nominees received very large bipartisan Senate votes. Like President Clinton, President Bush is going to have the same opportunity. “I hope President Bush fulfills his campaign promise and picks another well-qualified strict constructionist for the Supreme Court.” #####
09.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) will receive a $1,331,869 grant for bioterrorism training. The funds will be used to train health care professionals to recognize and respond to bioterrorism and implement a notification communication system. MUSC partners with the University of South Carolina, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, South Carolina Center for Public Health Preparedness, South Carolina Hospital Association, South Carolina Office of Rural Health, South Carolina Primary Health Care Association, and others. Over the past two years, more than 12,000 health care professionals have received bioterrorism training including physicians, nurses, dentists, emergency medical personnel, pharmacists, and social workers. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
09.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina Parents Involved in Education (SC PIE) in Lugoff will receive a $755,203 grant to support their abstinence education program. SC PIE is a grassroots organization committed to excellence in the public schools of South Carolina through the meaningful involvement of parents in children’s education. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
09.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced more than $607,000 in grants to fire departments across South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Folly Beach Folly Beach Fire Department will receive $40,409. Inman New Prospect Fire Department will receive $103,357. Lancaster Bell Town Volunteer Fire Department will receive $37,972. Lancaster Fire Department will receive $108,832. Mayo Mayo Area Fire District will receive $89,290. Moncks Corner Whitesville Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive $29,583. Neeses Neeses Volunteer Fire Department will receive $152,132. Olanta Olanta Rural Fire Department will receive $46,313. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
09.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Palmetto Project, Inc. in Charleston will receive a $1,189,191 Healthy Communities Access Program (HCAP) grant. HCAP grants provide funding to public and private healthcare providers as well as social service, local government and other community-based organizations to strengthen health services for the uninsured and underinsured. The Palmetto Project is a private, non-profit initiative to put new and creative ideas to work in South Carolina. Additional information on the organization can be found on their website: http://www.palmettoproject.org. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
09.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced $1 million in federal funding will be used for land acquisition at Forty-Acre Rock Heritage Preserve in Lancaster County. The funding will help with the purchase of 2,459 acres to supplement the Preserve, providing a buffer and protection for numerous rare species. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of the Interior’s U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. ####
09.27.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the University of South Carolina Research Foundation will receive $3,942,626 for construction of the Modern Political Collections wing at the Thomas Cooper Library. The Modern Political Collections wing will be the permanent home to archives of long-time South Carolina Senator Fritz Hollings. In addition, the Ernest F. Hollings Center for Public Policy research will be housed in the new facility. The funds were approved in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. ####
09.27.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint cast their votes last week in favor of the Fiscal Year 2006 Agriculture Appropriations Bill that contains more than $8.7 million for South Carolina related projects. “I am pleased that our Congressional delegation worked together to secure funding for these projects,” said Graham. South Carolina related projects funded in the bill include: Charleston $3 million for modernization of the U.S. Vegetable Laboratory $100,000 for research on integrated disease management strategies on livestock and crops Clemson University $1.19 million to for a land use change study $282,000 for crop/pest interaction study $278,000 for peach tree short life study Florence $250,000 increase in funding for swine lagoon alternatives research at the Agricultural Research Station (ARS) The bill provides language permitting the purchase of land by the ARS research laboratory South Carolina Related $3.94 million for the Southern Shrimp Alliance The bill is expected to be signed into law by President Bush. ####
09.26.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Rock Hill will receive a $525,907 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). The CDBG program develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
09.23.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $1.1 million in federal grants to support two National Estuarine Research Reserves in South Carolina. The University of South Carolina Research Foundation will receive a $579,724 grant for administration, operation, and maintenance at North Inlet-Winyah Bay in Georgetown County. In addition, the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources will receive a $555,000 grant for administration, operation, and maintenance at ACE Basin in Charleston. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
09.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $1.25 million in federal grants for parks throughout South Carolina. Edisto Beach The South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation, and Tourism will receive $249,808 for the redevelopment of the Live Oak Boat Landing and Dock at Edisto Beach State Park. The funds will be used for the replacement of the boat launch and dock facilities. Kershaw County Kershaw County will receive $250,000 for improvements at Lugoff-Elgin Recreation Complex Phase I. The funds will be used for the construction of four baseball/softball fields, three soccer fields, two tennis courts, a walking trail, restrooms, and parking. Myrtle Beach The South Carolina Department of Parks, Recreation, and Tourism will receive $500,000 for improvements at Myrtle Beach State Park. The funds will be used to enhance beach access and dune preservation with the construction of dune crosswalks, boardwalks, and concrete walks. Rock Hill The City of Rock Hill will receive $250,000 for improvements at Glencairn Garden. The funds will be used for the enhancement of trails, terraces, streambeds, and a pond. The grants were awarded by the National Park Service. ####
09.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Senate Judiciary Committee approved the nomination of John Roberts to be Chief Justice of the United States. The vote in committee was 13-5 with Graham voting in support of the nominee. “Judge Roberts is a well-qualified nominee and may be the best legal mind in the country today,” said Graham. “There’s no doubt President Bush chose wisely when he nominated him for this important position. I’m pleased Judge Roberts received bipartisan support in the committee and confident he will be confirmed by the full Senate.” Graham did note some disappointment in the fact Judge Roberts, who has an impeccable legal background and credentials for the position, did not receive a unanimous vote in committee like some previous nominees. He cited Justice Antonin Scalia, a conservative nominated by former President Reagan, and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsberg, a liberal nominated by former President Clinton, as being examples of nominees who were qualified for their positions and received unanimous votes -- even though all Senators did not agree with their legal philosophies. “When a President campaigns on picking Supreme Court nominees of a certain mold and wins the election, we should give deference to them,” said Graham. “If the nominee is well-qualified and of good character and integrity, they should be confirmed in an overwhelming fashion. Unfortunately, I’m afraid some Senators are now trying to create political tests with their votes. “I’m very concerned about what I see happening in the Senate,” said Graham. “We appear to be getting away from judging a nominee’s qualifications and beginning to administer political allegiance tests. This new standard will be bad for the judiciary and bad for the country. It’s not something I support.” Graham also noted that even after Roberts is confirmed President Bush still has one vacancy on the Supreme Court to fill. “I urge the President to fulfill his campaign promise and pick another well-qualified strict constructionist for the Supreme Court,” said Graham. #####
09.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Judicial Department will receive $24,715,412 to modernize courts throughout the state. The funds will be used to improve the legal infrastructure in all forty-six counties including the deployment of a statewide case management system, web technologies that provide better access to information, and upgrades in both physical and information security. The funds were approved in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. ####
09.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One, I hope Senator Feingold has a long life and he sees many Supreme Court justices come and go. If I can do what my predecessor did, Senator Feingold, I have 50 more years to serve. (LAUGHTER) So this court will flip over four or five times. And I'm going to miss most of you all, by the way. (LAUGHTER) Senator Biden gave me some good advice when I first came to the Senate. He was gracious enough to come down and speak at Senator Thurmond's funeral upon his passing. And I really do like Senator Biden a lot. He said, "Don't ever question a senator's motive. You can argue with their result, you can disagree with how they vote, but don't question their motive." You know, that's great advice. I am going to adopt that advice. I think that if you vote differently than I do, I don't question your motives. But I'll make an observation, too, for the long view of things, because I think Russ is on to something here. What we do here today is definitely going to affect the future. Just for a point of observation, Breyer and Ginsburg and Scalia, I've been told, were reported out of the committee unanimously. Well, that's not going to happen today with Judge Roberts, but I'm not questioning anyone's motives. It's just a fact. I think people have articulated very heart-felt reasons for voting no and yes. And we're already talking about the next nominee in code. Senator Kohl, who voted yes, is talking about the balance of the court with O'Connor. Senator Feingold has mentioned he may not be too receptive to Justice Brown. I can understand that; that's the way this situation is in 2005. But this is my first -- hopefully of many -- Supreme Court confirmation hearings, Mr. Chairman, and I think you've done an excellent job. Senator Leahy, I think you've done an excellent job as the ranking member. I've been very proud of the committee. I've at times refused to come over here because I hated to come, because we'd argue about what time it is. I think the committee distinguished itself very well, I really do. I think the questions were hard, they were probing. And, generally speaking, I think the committee did well. The mystery is gone: I will vote for Judge Roberts. I'm sure everybody was hanging on whether that would happen. (LAUGHTER) But the reason I'm going to vote for him is because I believe that the president does enjoy some deference here. That's what this debate is about right now: the role of the president versus the Senate. Senator Kennedy has articulated what he thought the central issue of the hearing was at the beginning and he concluded with his view of the central issue as whether or not the nominee would roll back certain progress that he's seen in the law. I started out the central issue being whether or not the Senate will allow the president, President Bush, to fulfill a campaign promise he made to the American people, and that is to nominate a well-qualified strict constructionist to the court. Two different views of what the Senate should be doing. He will get confirmed, thanks to people like Senator Kohl and Feingold and Senator Leahy and others. People who vote their conscience against him, they're doing what they think is right. But that is a basic issue the country needs to come to grips with. Senator Reid, when he was indicating that he would vote no, made a statement: "The president is not entitled to very much deference in staffing the third branch of government, the judiciary." And The Washington Post wrote an editorial called, "Words That Will Haunt." I just want to, if I can, in a few minutes, talk about where we're going from here. He's going to be confirmed but the vote totals are going to be fairly dramatically different than they were with Ginsburg, Scalia and Breyer. If you get away from the qualifications, intelligence and character test, which I think had to be in play there, you're setting up a scenario that could haunt us all. If we're going to start looking at people's hearts, that is a very subjective thing to do. Justice Ginsburg -- her writings, as Senator Grassley said, "I admire him for voting because she is qualified but from a conservative's point of view, her view of politics and her writings and the role she played in the law was very hard to swallow." I would just say that one of the attacks on Judge Roberts was that he was a legal genius, well-qualified, intellectually gifted, but we didn't know if he had the worldness of judging others; that he was qualified to really sit in judgment at that level. We're questioning whether or not he's lived his life right. Well, one could argue that if you're for a constitutional right of prostitution, those of us who have been in the criminal law as prosecutors and defense attorneys would probably come out different; that prostitution's not a good business endeavor, that those women who find themselves in the world of prostitution live in hell. We could start questioning whether or not someone who believed in that view of a constitutional right really was connected to the real world as I see it. But, you know, the real world as Lindsey Graham sees it is -- I'm glad you don't adopt it. It would be a very boring place for the country. We all have different value systems and we all have different hot-button items. If we start judging the nominee on, "Will you show allegiance to what I think is most important in the country?" then we're going to politicize the process to the point that I think the role of the president has been dramatically changed and undermined. Woe be on to those judges who have to figure out how to navigate our value systems, our beliefs and show allegiance to our heart. That is a standard I would not want to put on any of you. It's not a standard I want to put on anyone who's going to follow. So there is a fundamental shift in this nomination to, I think, what the standard has been in the past to what it will be in the future. I have a little bit of concern about that. Actually, I have a lot of concern. The reasons to vote no, while I respect those reasons, have been very subjective. They've been around a case or a concept that you find so important that that's going to be the end of the discussion. I would just urge this committee, as we go to the next debate, to remember that Scalia was obviously conservative. There's no way Roberts is more conservative than Scalia. There's no way that Roberts is more challenging and in-you-face than Scalia in his writings. Scalia got 98 votes. Now what's happened? Ginsberg got 96 votes. What's going on? I think Senator Grassley put his finger on it: There's a lot of pressure on us all. This is the easiest vote a Republican will ever make. This is so easy for us to vote for Roberts. It is not easy for you, Russ. I know you are a prominent player in the Democratic Party. This is not easy for Senator Leahy. It is not easy for Senator Kohl. It will not be easy for those who choose to side with Roberts because they're trying to drive down the vote numbers because of the next person to come. Senator Grassley, you're right: Politics is rearing its head like it has not done before. But here's what I worry about, sir: Our day will come. There will be a Democratic president, probably in my lifetime. (LAUGHTER) The pressure that they're feeling, we're going to feel. The compromise -- Senator DeWine and I felt a little bit of pressure -- if we could look at the person before us based on qualifications, character and integrity and not require them to show an allegiance to a particular case or a cause, it would serve the country well. Because liberals and conservatives come and go, but the rule of law is bigger than all of our philosophies. The rule of law is about the process. If you want the law to be outcome-determinative, then the process has been cheapened. The good thing about the law, Mr. Chairman, is that the conservative and liberal philosophy and agenda is parked at the courthouse door and we're judged by facts and what people did before us. There needs to be one place left in American discourse and politics for the quietness of the merits of individuals to trump the loudness of special interest groups. The last place I know of is the courtroom. The reason that I think Justice Roberts will be a justice for the ages -- he's probably the most qualified guy, top two or three people in the history of the nation -- is that he believes beyond anything else that the rule of law is for the unpopular cause, is for the quiet discussion not the loud political campaign, and that he believes deep down and loves the law more than he loves politics. That's all you can ask of anybody that comes through our gatekeeping here: Will you adhere to the law more than you'll adhere to anyone's political philosophy? The president has chosen well. Mr. President, you have done a good service to this nation by choosing someone of such intellect and character who will serve this nation for a long period of time. You have another choice awaiting you. Listen to our Democratic colleagues. Listen to what we have to say. But at the end of the day, ask you to do one thing for the good of your presidency and all to follow: Fulfill your campaign promise of selecting a strict constructionist, well-qualified person who loves the law more than they love politics. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
09.21.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $570,000 in grants to fire departments across South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Central Central Fire Department will receive $48,507. Darlington City of Darlington Fire Department will receive $64,629. Easley Dacusville Volunteer Fire Department will receive $133,853. Georgetown Georgetown County will receive $87,480. Greenville Greenville City Fire Department will receive $90,763. Olar Govan Fire Department will receive $147,199. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
09.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Claflin University Counseling Center will receive a $216,913 grant to enhance the education environment for students with disabilities. The funds will be used to provide training, technical assistance, and services to faculty and administrators to provide them with the skills necessary to teach students with disabilities. In addition, funds will be used to assess current services, policies, and procedures for serving students with disabilities. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
09.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced The South Carolina Research Authority will receive $3,946,573 in federal funds to support port security initiatives being coordinated by Project Seahawk. Project Seahawk is a local, state, and federal task force under the direction of the South Carolina U.S. Attorney’s Office. “Senator Hollings was the driving force behind Project Seahawk and I look forward to building on his efforts to address port security,” said Graham. “Container security is of particular concern in South Carolina because Charleston is the fourth largest container port in the country. It is my hope that Project Seahawk will be a model for all U.S. ports.” The funds will be used to procure, implement, test, and evaluate a cargo container inspection system that incorporates backscatter and high energy transmission X-ray technology. Funding for this project was approved in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. ####
09.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) will receive two grants for more than $1 million to help reduce the backlog of DNA analysis and improve future capacity to conduct these tests. SLED will receive a $587,597 grant to analyze backlogged forensic DNA casework in government-owned labs and private vendors. In addition, SLED will receive a $511,584 grant to improve infrastructure and analysis capacity at government-owned labs to prevent future DNA backlogs. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
09.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Second Judicial Circuit Solicitor’s Office will receive a $335,385 grant to operate a juvenile drug court in Aiken County. The court will serve non-violent juveniles ages twelve to seventeen with no history of violent offenses or long-term incarceration. The funds will be used primarily for intervention and treatment, and to improve family function through parental awareness, structure, and guidance. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
09.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today was awarded the Military Coalition’s 2005 Award of Merit in recognition of his work to expand access to health care for members of the National Guard, Reserves, and their families. The award is the Coalition’s highest honor. Members of the Coalition include the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), Reserve Officers Association (ROA), and the National Guard Association of the United States (NGAUS), among others. Graham was recognized for his effort, along with Senator Hillary Clinton (D-New York), to extend access to TRICARE military health care benefits for members of the National Guard and Reserve. In July, Graham secured unanimous Senate passage of his amendment to the defense authorization bill expanding access to healthcare benefits to all drilling members of the National Guard and Reserve regardless of their activation status. The defense authorization bill remains under consideration in the U.S. Senate. Graham effort builds on the expansion the Senators secured in last year’s Department of Defense Authorization bill which provides an extension of one additional year of TRICARE eligibility to Guard and Reserve Members for every 90 days of active duty. Joe Barnes, Co-Chairman of the Military Coalition and National Executive Secretary of the Fleet Reserve Association, lauded the pair for their efforts. “They’ve set a great example in working closely together to highlight this as a bipartisan issue that’s important for the country,” said Barnes. “They convinced a majority of senators to put aside party differences and recognize that we can’t demand such heavy sacrifices from Guard and Reserve families without doing our part to ensure they have health coverage continuity, regardless of their deployment status.” The Military Coalition is comprised of 36 military and veterans organizations representing more than 5.5 million members around the world, including active duty, National Guard, Reserve, and retired members and veterans of the uniformed services, as well as their families and survivors. A full list of the 36 organizations comprising the Military Coalition can be found on their website http://themilitarycoalition.org/Members.htm ###
09.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1419) SPECTER: Senator Graham, you are recognized. GRAHAM: Yes, Mr. Chairman, just for a couple of minutes. I'm trying to compile questions from the past where the answers were very similar to the answers of Judge Roberts about, I can't comment, I can't give you -- I can't answer your question because it may compromise my integrity to judge in the future. And I would ask permission of the committee to get a chance to organize this because there are so many volumes. And what I would like to be able to demonstrate to the committee is that the pattern that he has displayed in terms of saying, I can't give you an answer because it may disqualify me is not unique to the Senate and very similar to past nominations. And we've got some examples of that. But if I may, and I know we've been here and Lord knows this guy's been through the wringer, I just want to comment a little bit an unhealthy area I think we find ourselves in in the last hour. Most of us are lawyers, and I would hate to be judged by the people I've represented in the past totally. I've represented some people that are not very nice. (LAUGHTER) But I gave them my all. I've represented people on Air Force bases that were so unpopular, Judge Roberts, that no one would eat with me, because it was my job as the area defense counsel to represent that person. Your heart -- nobody can question your intellect, because it would be a question of their intellect to question yours... (LAUGHTER) ... so we're down to the heart. And is it all coming down to that? Well, there are all kind of hearts. There are bleeding hearts and there are hard hearts. And if I wanted to judge Justice Ginsburg on her heart, I might take a hard-hearted view of her and say she's a bleeding heart. She represents the ACLU. She wants the age of consent to be 12. She believes there's a constitutional right to prostitution. What kind of heart is that? Well, she has a different value system than I do. But that doesn't mean she doesn't have a good heart. And I want this committee to understand that if we go down this road of putting people's hearts in play, and the only way you can have a good heart is, Adopt my value system, we're doing a great disservice to the judiciary. Thank you. SPECTER: Thank you very much, Senator Graham.
09.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced three Historically Black Colleges and Universities will receive a total of $1.6 million in grants to address community development needs. HBCU’s receiving grants include: Clinton Junior College in Rock Hill will receive a $400,000 grant. South Carolina State University in Orangeburg will receive a $600,000 grant. Voorhees College in Denmark will receive a $600,000 grant. The funds will be used to assist the schools in expanding their role and effectiveness in community development activities including neighborhood revitalization, housing development for low- and moderate-income persons, and economic development. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
09.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) GRAHAM: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Judge Roberts, your intellectually stamina impresses me because you can't see this on television. It must be 150 degrees in here. (LAUGHTER) And I just don't know how you're doing it. But I'm tremendously impressed. Mr. Chairman, I would like permission to introduce into the record some law professor's opinion that being interviewed for the Supreme Court vacancy, when Judge Roberts was interviewed, did not require him to recuse himself and I'll... SPECTER: Without objection, it will be made a part of the record. GRAHAM: Well, let's think about that in kind of political terms. And I know that's not really your job. If we took this to its logical conclusion, say I was president -- I don't think that's going to happen so you don't need to be overly worried about it but you could take someone to be chief justice from the people sitting on the court. Is that correct? ROBERTS: Yes. GRAHAM: So if you had a judge you didn't particularly like, the best thing you could do is go talk to him about the job and they couldn't decide anything. Would that be the logical conclusion of this? ROBERTS: I think that would be the logical conclusion... GRAHAM: Well, I'll remember that if I'm president. But on the record now, I don't think I have the right to do that. That's part of the process. Some big things here. Were you proud to work for Ronald Reagan? ROBERTS: Very much, Senator, yes. GRAHAM: During your time of working with Ronald Reagan, were you ever asked to take a legal position that you thought was unethical or not solid? ROBERTS: No, Senator, I was not. GRAHAM: We talked about the Voting Rights Acts. Proportionality test in the Reagan administration's view was changing the Voting Rights Act to create its own harm. Is that correct? ROBERTS: The concern that the attorney general had and the president was that changing Section 2 to the so-called effects test would cause courts to adopt a proportionality requirement, that if elected representatives were not elected in proportion to the racial composition in a particular jurisdiction, that there would be a violation shown that would have to be addressed. GRAHAM: Do you think it would be fair to try to suggest that because you supported that position but you're somehow racially insensitive? ROBERTS: No, Senator. And I would resist the suggestion that I'm racially insensitive. I know why the phrase, Equal Justice Under Law is carved in marble above the Supreme Court entrance. It is because of the fundamental commitment of the rule of law to ensure equal justice for all people without regard to their race or ethnic background or gender. The courts are a place where people need to be able to go to secure a determination of their rights under the law in a totally unbiased way. That's a commitment all judges make when they take a judicial oath. GRAHAM: Knowing this will not this line of inquiry but, at least, trying to put my stamp on what I think we've found from this long discussion, basically, the Supreme Court decided in Section 2 that the intent test was constitutionally sound. Is that correct? ROBERTS: That was its determination in Mobile against... GRAHAM: And Senator Kennedy disagreed because he wanted a different test. And I respect him. He is one of the great -- first, he's not part of the Reagan revolution. I think we all can agree with that. So I don't expect him to buy into it. But I respect him greatly for his passion about his causes. He took it upon himself to try to change a Supreme Court ruling, to go away from the intent test to the effects test, and he was able to reach a political compromise with the administration. And I just want that to be part of the record; that to say that Ronald Reagan or Judge Roberts, by embracing a concept approved by the court, equates to that administration or this person being incensed at people of color in this country I think is very unfair and off base. You said something yesterday that was very compelling to me. I asked you, could you express or articulate what you thought might be one of the big threats to the rule of law. And I believe you said, Judges overstepping their boundaries, getting into the land of making the law, putting their social stamp on a cause, rather than interpreting the law, because that could over time, in the eyes of the public, undermine the confidence in the court. Is that a correct summary? Yes, Senator. GRAHAM: Well, we have before us today, Judge Roberts, a legal opinion just issued, hot off the presses, that says the establishment clause of the Constitution apparently is violated if an American recites the Pledge of Allegiance. You will be on the court, I hope, and you will use your best judgment on how to reconcile the 9th Circuit opinion. And I'm not asking you to tell us how you might rule, I'm making a personal observation that this is an example, in my opinion, of where judges do not protect us from having the government impose religion upon us, but declare war on all things religious. And that is my personal view and opinion. That's why most Americans sometimes are dumbfounded about what's going on in the name of religion. No American wants the government to tell them how to worship, where to worship or if to worship. But when we exercise our right to worship, it bothers me greatly that judges, who are unelected, confused the concept between establishment and free exercise. And I will move on. I think it is one of the cases that is undermining the confidence in the judiciary. And I'm glad that you're sensitive to that. The war on terror. In my past legal life, I've spent most of my legal career associated with the military. And I'm proud to be a military lawyer. I'm the only Reservist in the Senate. I sit as an Air Force Court of Criminal Appeals judge. I handle the easy cases, because I don't have a whole lot of time and I help where I can. But I understand, I think, very well what it means to abide by the judicial canons of ethics -- not to tip your hand, not to compromise yourself to get promoted or to get put on the court; promoted in the military or to get put on the board; trying to please your boss, trying to please a senator. And my respect for you has gone up because you're unwilling to compromise your ethics. And I hope the Senate will understand that, in the past, other people were not required to do so. Are you familiar with the Geneva Convention? ROBERTS: Yes, Senator. GRAHAM: Do you believe that the Geneva Convention, as a body of law, that it has been good for America to be part of that convention? ROBERTS: I do, yes. GRAHAM: Why? ROBERTS: Well, my understanding in general is it's an effort to bring civilized standards to conduct of war -- a generally uncivilized enterprise throughout history; an effort to bring some protection and regularity to prisoners of war in particular. And I think that's a very important international effort. GRAHAM: As Senator Kyl said, this will be the only time we get to talk. And I don't want to compromise your role as a judge, but I do want you to help me express some concepts here that America needs to be more understanding of. And I want to work with my Democratic friends to see if we can find some way to deal with us. We're dealing with an enemy that is not covered by the Geneva Convention. Al Qaida, by their very structure and nature, are not signatories to the Geneva Convention and are not covered under its dictates. An enemy combatant: Are you familiar with that term in the law? ROBERTS: Yes, Senator, I am. GRAHAM: What would an enemy combatant be under American jurisprudence? Who would they be? ROBERTS: Well, I really have... GRAHAM: Fair enough. Fair enough. ROBERTS: Those cases are both pending. The ones that I've decided are pending before the Supreme Court and those issues are likely to come before... GRAHAM: Fair enough. The Geneva Convention doesn't cover Al Qaida, but or president has said that anyone in our charge, terrorist or not, will be treated humanely. I applaud the president, because, in fighting the war on terror, we need not become our enemy. Our strength as a nation is believing in the rule of law, even for the worst of those that we may encounter. I admire Mr. Adams for representing the Redcoats. I cannot imagine how tough that must have been. But his willingness to take on the unpopular cause in the name of the rule of law has made it stronger. When the president said that we will treat everyone humanely, even the worst of the worst, I think he's brought out the best in who we are. But we're in a war, Judge Roberts, where the Geneva Convention doesn't apply. And we have before the courts a line of cases dealing with the dilemma this country faces. When you capture an enemy combatant, non-citizen, foreign terrorist, there's three things I think we must do. We must aggressively interrogate them without changing who we are. We must have the ability to keep them off the battlefield for a long period of time to protect our nation. And we must have a system to hold them accountable for some of the most horrible crimes imaginable. Justice Jackson was of your favorite justices. Is that correct? ROBERTS: I think that's a fair description, yes. GRAHAM: He has indicated in the Youngstown case that the presidency of the executive branch is at its strongest when it has concurrence with the legislative branch. Is that a fair summary of what he said? ROBERTS: Yes. He divided up the area basically into three parts. Considering the executive's authority, he said when it has the support of Congress it's at its greatest, and, obviously, when it's in opposition to Congress it's at its lowest ebb, as he put it. And he described a middle area in which it was sometimes difficult to tell whether Congress was supporting the action or not. GRAHAM: This is me speaking, not you. Congress is AWOL, ladies and gentlemen, in the war on terror when it comes to detention, interrogation and prosecution of enemy noncitizen combatants. Justice Scalia has written eloquently that Congress has the power to get involved in these issues and Congress is silent. What is the case, is it the Rasul case, where the Supreme Court in a 5-4 decision has given habeas corpus rights to noncitizen foreign terrorists? ROBERTS: I think that's correct, Senator. GRAHAM: That is an amazing departure from what we've been as a nation for 200 years. I have been to Guantanamo Bay twice. The people running the prison tell me that 185 of detainees have lawyers in federal court. Justice Scalia says we've set up a situation where 94 different jurisdictions can hear habeas cases involving noncitizen foreign terrorists. The people running the jail say this process is undermining out ability to get good information. A habeas corpus petition, would it allow a defense attorney to call a military commander in to answer for how this person was captured? ROBERTS: I don't know, Senator, and I hesitate to opine on that without knowing. GRAHAM: Well, the truth is that we've set up a situation where our military leaders and our military commanders and soldiers in the field can be called from all over the world, all over the country, to answer for why such person is detained. We had a conversation in our office, my office. You said something to the effect, as Justice Scalia said in his dissenting opinion, that this would be an area where the courts would welcome some congressional involvement. And right now, we have the executive branch carrying the load totally by themselves. We've got several cases before the court dealing with detention policy, interrogation policy and prosecution policy. Do you believe that this is an area, if the Congress acted, as Justice Jackson said, that it would strengthen the hand of the executive in a legal situation? ROBERTS: My observation during our meeting, Senator, was not an expression of legal determination. And it doesn't necessarily mean a view that Congress' action or involvement would be determinative or would even be within the scope of legal authority, depending on what the issue and the arguments were. I do know that when you are in the middle area, where it's difficult to determine whether Congress is supporting the president's action or is opposed to the president's action, that the court often has to try to read the tea leaves of related legislation. If you look at the Dames and Moore decision coming out of the Iranian hostage crisis, what the court did in that case, applying the middle tier, was look at a vast array of legislation. And it was a very difficult enterprise to try to figure out what Congress' view was. My point was simply that if we'd know what Congress' view was, it might make it easier to apply it in a particular case, and you wouldn't have to go through that process of trying to determine what position Congress was in, if that turned out to be pertinent under the particular legal challenge. GRAHAM: Thank you. Justice Scalia said in a very direct way, The courts are ill- equipped to deal with these issues. In the Youngstown Steel case, Justice Jackson says, When the president acts pursuant to an express or implied authorization of Congress, his authority is at the maximum, for it includes all that he possesses in his own right, plus all that Congress can delegate. A seizure executed by the president pursuant to an act of Congress would be supported by the strongest of presumptions and the widest latitude of judicial interpretation, and the burden of persuasion would rest heavily upon any who may attack. Do you agree with that? ROBERTS: That was read from the Jackson -- I do. I agree with the basic proposition that the president's authority is at its greatest when he has the support of Congress. GRAHAM: To my colleagues, I think it is imperative for this body to get involved in the war on terror when it comes to detaining, interrogating and prosecuting enemy combatants who are not citizens. It is important that all three branches of government, in my opinion, feel comfortable with the policies of this nation, that we'll be stronger if the judicial branch, the legislative branch and the executive branch are working together to come up with policies that will allow for aggressive interrogation, appropriate detention and serious prosecution in a way that's within the values of our nation. So that is why I will be introducing legislation on all those topics. And I will not ask you any further what you may or may not do about the legislation if it ever gets to the floor of the Senate and passed. The Kelo case. Of all the things that have been decided, and I haven't been to my office since the recent case about the pledge -- though it may have trumped it -- I have gotten more phone calls about the Kelo case than anything the Supreme Court has done lately. And for those who may be tuning in, the Kelo case basically said that the government can take your property, give it to someone else, another private person because it could be used at a higher and best use and it may generate more taxes. I'm not going to ask you to tell me how you decide the Kelo case. But I just want you to know -- as Senator Kyl indicated, this is the only time you can hear from us -- that my phone is ringing off the hook and that every legislature that I know of is going into session as quickly as they can to correct that. So I want to leave with you -- and when you meet your new colleagues, please let them know that some of the things they do that we watch. And that the courts are able to do their job because the public defers to the court and respects the court, but there is a limit. The office of chief justice of the United States is different, as you're the first among equals. What do you believe as chief justice you can bring to the table that you could not as just a normal member of the court? ROBERTS: Well, if I am confirmed, I think one of the things that the chief justice should have as a top priority is to try to bring about a greater degree of coherence and consensus in the opinions of the court. I know that has been -- was a priority of the last chief justice. I actually believe that is something that should be a matter of concern for all of the justices, but as the chief, with responsibility for assigning opinions, I think he has greater scope for authority to exercise in that area and perhaps over time can develop greater persuasive authority to make the point. And again, coming from the chief it may be a point that other justices would receive -- be more receptive to than they might coming from one of their colleagues; that we're not benefited by having six different opinions in a case; that we do need to take a step and think whether or not we really do feel strongly about a point in which a justice is writing a separate concurrence which only he or she is joining, or whether the majority opinion could be revised in a way that wouldn't affect anyone's commitment to the judicial oath to decide the cases as they see fit, but would allow more justices to join the majority so the court speaks as a court. That is something that the priority should be, to speak as a court. GRAHAM: So your goal as chief justice is where you can, and as often as you can, define consensus and unite the court, is that true? ROBERTS: I think the court should be as united behind an opinion of the court as it possibly can. Now, obviously, in many cases it's not going to be possible. GRAHAM: I applaud you because we're a divided nation, and the more united we can become at any level of government, the stronger we'll be. So I applaud you for that attitude.
09.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced three Historically Black Colleges and Universities will receive a total of $1.6 million in grants to address community development needs. HBCU’s receiving grants include: Clinton Junior College in Rock Hill will receive a $400,000 grant. South Carolina State University in Orangeburg will receive a $600,000 grant. Voorhees College in Denmark will receive a $600,000 grant. The funds will be used to assist the schools in expanding their role and effectiveness in community development activities including neighborhood revitalization, housing development for low- and moderate-income persons, and economic development. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
09.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Calhoun Falls will receive a $214,400 grant and $276,000 loan for improvements in the water and sewer department. The funds will be used to transform an existing building and convert it into a maintenance facility. Calhoun Falls was previously awarded a $373,100 grant and $211,000 loan for this project. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
09.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) will receive two research grants for more than $2.3 million. MUSC will receive a $1.2 million grant for continued drug abuse research and participation in the Clinical Trial Network. MUSC partners with private drug treatment providers to advance scientifically based drug intervention treatment methods. In addition, MUSC will receive a $1,154,354 grant to conduct clinical research related to neurological disorders. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
09.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) SEN. ARLEN SPECTER: Thank you, Senator Feingold. Senator Graham? SEN. LINDSEY GRAHAM: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I imagine the reason that you argued different positions is because people paid you. Is that correct? JUDGE JOHN ROBERTS: That's how I made my living, Senator. GRAHAM: OK. I can relate to that. I imagine it must be very hard to figure out what Congress intends. Do you agree with that? ROBERTS: Sometimes it's easier than others and sometimes it's hard to read the tea leaves. GRAHAM: I can relate to that also. I want to read an excerpt from the National Association of Women Lawyers and their evaluation of you -- 8/30/05 -- As a lawyer and judge, based on interviews the committee conducted, Judge Roberts has treated individual women lawyers fairly and with respect, has fostered careers of women lawyers, has been helpful in enabling women to address work/life balance issues while advancing professionally, and has been consistently described as respectful to female colleagues, female lawyers appearing before him and female employees. You've been asked about every case, I think, ever written by anyone. I would like to talk to you a little about life. The idea of judging you based on this section of the commerce clause and that section of the commerce clause is important, but I think most Americans want to know a little bit about you. And from what I can tell, the people who've worked with you and against you generally like you, and that you've been described as brilliant, one of the best legal minds of your time, well-qualified. The adjectives go on and on. And I want the record to reflect: That comes from people who know you the best. The best indication of a good lawyer is how people on the other side think of you. And we'll get some excerpts from the record to put that into the record. Apparently, from what I can tell, you've conducted your life in a noble, honorable manner; that you've been a good litigant; and that you have fought for your causes and you have done so to earn respect of those on both sides of the aisle. But there's a greater issue here about who you are. Justice Rehnquist was your mentor, is that correct? ROBERTS: He's certainly someone from whom I learned a great deal, yes. GRAHAM: OK. So if I was trying to figure out who John Roberts is and a little bit about him, I will ask this question: Write the legacy of Justice Rehnquist for a minute or two. What would you say if given that task? ROBERTS: Well, you know, I think if you were able to ask him, he would talk about being a grandfather, being a father... GRAHAM: I'm asking you. ROBERTS: ... being a husband. GRAHAM: I'm asking you. ROBERTS: But the important point is that those were important things in his life and he appreciated the need to recognize that those are the most important things. With respect to the law to which he devoted his professional life, I think a big part of the legacy that he leaves is a Supreme Court in which all of the members respected and admired him because of his fairness in administering the court and conducting the important responsibilities like managing the conference and assigning opinions. GRAHAM: You can go back in history and look at what other chief justices did. Some were -- in terms of that administrative responsibility -- some were disasters. You look at Harlan Stone, his idea of running the conference, he said what he thought, then the next senior justice said what he thought. Then Justice Stone critiqued that. Then the next justice, and then Justice Stone critiqued that. And the result was the conferences went on for days and everybody ended up hating each other. So he ran a good ship. I think we all agree with that. And his colleagues respected him whether they disagreed with him or not. But the basic question is, when you write about the legacy of a Supreme Court justice, you write more than about being a grandfather -- more about running a tight ship, especially chief justice: Would you agree with the idea that, from a conservative point of view, he was the gold standard? ROBERTS: I think he was a very effective advocate on the bench for a view of the Constitution that is one of limited and separated powers. GRAHAM: Do you share that view? ROBERTS: I do. I think that the -- now, I have to tell you that whether as a judge on the court of appeals or if I am confirmed on the Supreme Court, I will certainly be my own man and there are... GRAHAM: No one is doubting that. No one is doubting that you will not try to be fair. But the big thing, 30,000-foot view of you, is that when you look at Judge Roberts, you're looking at someone in the mold of a Rehnquist. Is that a fair assessment? ROBERTS: Well, you know, I admire the late chief justice very much. But I will have to insist that I will be my own man and I hesitate to be put in anybody's mold. And I would certainly approach the cases according to the judicial philosophy that I have developed over the years. In many respects, it's similar to his: in its recognition, I think, of the limited role that judges should have, an appropriate modesty and humility, a recognition that... GRAHAM: The idea of a dramatic departure under your watch from the Rehnquist era is probably not going to happen, is that true? ROBERTS: Given my view of the role of a judge which focuses on appropriate modesty and humility, the notion of dramatic departures is not one that I would hold out much hope for. GRAHAM: I know people don't like being labeled, Put me in that category. But I'm in a business where people label me all the time. But I ask for it, I run for office. But we do tend in our business of politics to try to label people, particularly when we're talking about judges. When the president introduced you to the United States, to the people of the United States, he said you were a strict constructionist. Do you know what he meant by that and why he chose to use those words? ROBERTS: Well, I hope what he meant by that is somebody who is going to be faithful to the text of the Constitution, to the intent of those who drafted it, while appreciating that sometimes the phrases they used, they were drafting a Constitution for the ages, to secure the blessings of liberty for their posterity. They were looking ahead. And so they often used phrases that they intended to have... (CROSSTALK) GRAHAM: Does that term make you feel uncomfortable? ROBERTS: No. GRAHAM: Now, from a 30,000-foot view of things, it seems to be that we're going to have a referendum on the Reagan era here, which I welcome. I sort of enjoyed it, he won 49 states. He did pretty good. You were part of the Reagan era as a young lawyer. When I use the word -- term -- Reagan revolution, what does it mean to you? ROBERTS: Well, it means to me generally a change in attitude. President Reagan always presented an optimistic view. He always told us that the best days of our country were ahead of us. And he reasserted basic fundamental truths in areas like foreign relations. We are going to stand up to the Soviet Union. We're proud of our system of government. That's the right approach, not the Soviet approach. And people who have come of age after the Berlin Wall has fallen sometimes don't understand what it meant at that time. GRAHAM: When it comes to the law, what does the term Reagan revolution mean to you? ROBERTS: I think it means a belief that we should interpret the Constitution according to its terms; that judges don't shape policy; that judges interpret the law and that legislators shape policy; that the executive branch executes the law. GRAHAM: Does it also mean that when you talk about affirmative action and you set up a quota system, that's not right? ROBERTS: President Reagan's policy was opposed to quotas, which were much more rigid at the time. People need to appreciate 24 years ago the idea of a quota was a rigid set-aside. We now have the recent Supreme Court decisions talking about consideration of particular factors as one factor in an affirmative action program. President Reagan was in favor of affirmative action and he was opposed to quotas. GRAHAM: When it comes to voting rights, as I understand -- and we talked a lot about it, and we probably know more than all of us ever dreamed we would know about the Voting Rights Act -- that you were implementing a policy of President Reagan that wanted to pass the Voting Rights Act in its form that you received it. Is that correct? ROBERTS: The proposal was to extend it for the longest period in history without change. GRAHAM: And we've been through a long discourse about the effect and intent test. I think you've explained yourself very well that the Supreme Court in the Mobile case said the intent test applies to Section 2. Is that right? ROBERTS: Section 2. GRAHAM: But politics took over after that, didn't it? Because the effect test no longer -- that's not the test. Isn't it some compromise between Senator Kennedy and Senator Dole? ROBERTS: There was a compromise in the test under Section 2, which is articulated in a paragraph describing what the criteria are, including a caution that this should not be read to promote proportional representation, which was some of the concern that the attorney general and President Reagan had. GRAHAM: So between Dole, Senator Kennedy and President Reagan, a new test was called the totality of the circumstances? ROBERTS: Yes. GRAHAM: Now, when you said that you -- Senator Kennedy said something I thought was very important: that courts should not stand in the way of elected officials who are trying to right wrongs. And the point I'm trying to make here is that you were picked by a conservative president because you have associated yourself with the conservative administrations in the past, advising conservative presidents about conservative policies. And there's another selection to be made, and you're going to get the same type person. And you can -- I'm not even talking to you now. (LAUGHTER) To expect anything else is just not fair. I don't expect -- I didn't expect -- President Clinton to pick you. It's not because you're not well-qualified, not because you're a good person; just a different political, legal philosophy. Now, that's what we're going to have to come to grips with here. Justice Scalia: Do you consider him conservative? ROBERTS: Yes. GRAHAM: Do you think you're more conservative than he is? ROBERTS: Oh, I don't know. I mean, I wouldn't... GRAHAM: Well, he got 98 votes. And I think you're a conservative, but I think you're one of the great minds of our generation, of our time. And I'm dying to find out if you get any votes on the other side. Time will tell. Let's talk about righting wrongs here. I think it stinks that somebody can burn the flag and that's called speech. What do you think about that? ROBERTS: Well... (LAUGHTER) We had the Flag Protection Act after the Supreme Court concluded that it was protected speech. GRAHAM: Show me where the term symbolic speech is in the Constitution. ROBERTS: Well, it's not. GRAHAM: It's not. They just made it up, didn't they? And I think it stinks that a kid that can't go to school and say a prayer if he wants to voluntarily. What do you think about that? ROBERTS: That's something that's probably inappropriate for me to comment on. GRAHAM: What do you think Ronald Reagan thought about that? ROBERTS: His view was that voluntary school prayer was appropriate. GRAHAM: I think it's not right for elected officials to be unable to talk about or protect the unborn. What do you think about that? ROBERTS: Well, again, Senator, these are issues that are likely to come before the court, and I can't comment on those particulars because... GRAHAM: Why are judges more capable of protecting or talking about the unborn than elected officials? ROBERTS: Well, again, those are issues that come before the court on a regular basis in particular cases. And on my current court or the future court, I need to be able to approach those cases with an open mind and not on the basis of statements I make during a confirmation hearing. GRAHAM: The point is that righting wrongs is a very subjective thing. And you will be asked to decide the fate of people with individual needs and individual desires, based on particular fact patterns and legal briefs. I'm confident you can do that and that you will do that. And I don't think you need to make a bargain with me to right all the wrongs that I see in life to sit on the Supreme Court. What's it like to go through the nominating process in 2005 from a personal point of view? I've been watching television, channel flipping, and I see some awful things said about you. Have you seen those things? ROBERTS: I've seen some things, yes. GRAHAM: How does that make you feel? ROBERTS: Well, some of the mischaracterizations, you know, you get annoyed at them. I don't like them. Some of the things you see you get pretty upset about. GRAHAM: How's it make your family feel? ROBERTS: I would say they get upset about some of the things, as well. GRAHAM: But, you know, it's a free country and that's just the way it is. Right? ROBERTS: It is, and it's an expression I've been using a lot lately. It is a free country, and it's a good thing that it is. GRAHAM: Let's not talk about you now, but I would like you to comment, give us some advice here. We're always trying to advise the president through you. What's the long-term effect on the quality of candidates that we'll be able to recruit for jobs like the Supreme Court if the current process continues and grows over time? ROBERTS: I think it is a very serious threat to the independence and integrity of the courts to politicize them. I think that is not a good development, to regard the courts as simply an extension of the political process. That's not what they are. I have been fortunate for the past two years to serve on a court in which all of the judges -- and they come, the D.C. Circuit, they come from very active careers in public life and sometimes very identified politically -- but it's a court where those judges put aside those ties and those views and become judges all focused on the same mission of vindicating the rule of law. And if you look at the decisions on the D.C. Circuit, you'll see that we are almost always unanimous, we almost always come out the same way. And to the extent there are disagreements, they don't shape up along political lines. That is an ideal. But the more and more that the process becomes politicized, the less likely that that's going to happen. GRAHAM: Another line of inquiry that's been disturbing to me is that we talk about the clients you represent, whether it be the Ronald Reagan administration or some private sector client, and we tend to hold that maybe unpopular position against the lawyer. There's more and more of that happening. We've had court of appeal nominees that were accused of being insensitive to the disabled population when they won their case 9-0 in the Supreme Court defending a university from the idea that they were not covered under the Americans with Disabilities Act. I really do worry that in the future that if we up here start holding who you represent against you, that young lawyers in the future will pass on the hard cases. What's your thoughts about that? ROBERTS: You know, it's a tradition of the American bar that goes back before the founding of the country that lawyers are not identified with the positions of their clients. The most famous example probably was John Adams, who represented the British soldiers charged in the Boston Massacre. And he did that for a reason, because he wanted to show that the revolution in which he was involved was not about overturning the rule of law, it was about vindicating the rule of law. Our founders thought that they were not being given their rights, under the British system, to which they were entitled. And, by representing the British soldiers, he helped show that what they were about was defending the rule of law, not undermining it. And that principle, that you don't identify the lawyer with the particular views of the client, or the views that the lawyer advances on behalf of a client, is critical to the fair administration of justice. GRAHAM: Do you believe it's being eroded? ROBERTS: I do think there is an unfortunate tendency to attack lawyers because of the positions they press on behalf of clients. And I think that's unfortunate. GRAHAM: I'm going to give you some examples of a sitting Supreme Court justice and her positions and basically take us back to the good old days where you could have what I think are extreme positions and still make it. Are you familiar with the ACLU? ROBERTS: Certainly. GRAHAM: In the conservative world, how does that rank on the food chain? ROBERTS: I don't know that I could comment on that, but they have a consistent position of promoting civil liberties and a particular view on that. GRAHAM: If you came to the Reagan administration and the top thing on their resume was the general counsel for the ACLU, do you think they would hire you? ROBERTS: Might make it a little harder. (LAUGHTER) GRAHAM: Yes. (LAUGHTER) I think that's a good observation. Well, we have, on the sitting Supreme Court now, the former general counsel for the American Civil Liberties Union, who is a very nice lady, extremely qualified -- I don't agree with her hardly at all -- but a great lawyer. She has written that the age of consent for women should be 12, that all prisons to have gender equality, men and women should be in the same prison because, when you separate them, women prisoners somehow are discriminated against. She wanted to do away or argued the idea that Mother's and Father's Day should be done away with because it stereotypes men and women -- that there's a constitutional right to prostitution. I can give you -- and I'll introduce into the record -- writings from her point of view that most conservatives would find totally unacceptable. But this person, this lady, the former ACLU executive counsel, is sitting on the Supreme Court, and she got 96 votes. She said that there should be federal funding for abortion. 90 percent of our caucus is pro-life -- is that about right? Pretty close? I could assure you that, if a Republican was going to make their vote based on abortion thinking, she would have gotten no votes. Most Americans don't want federal funding of abortion, even though they're divided on the issue of a woman's right to choose. GRAHAM: She has argued that the equal protection clause guarantees a right to abortion. Now, I completely differ with that, and I'm sure the conservatives in the Senate at the time of her confirmation completely differed with that: the idea the age of consent should be 12, that bigamy statutes are discriminatory to women. I can go on and on and on. And the point I'm trying to make is that all of that was put aside, who she represented and what she believed and the position she took, and somehow back then they're able to see in Justice Ginsburg a well-qualified, brilliant legal mind and they deferred to President Clinton because he won the election. Whether that happens to you, I don't know. But for the sake of the country and the rule of law, I hope you can be in the ballpark of where she wound up. Last two questions. In your opening statement, you articulated the rule of law in a way that I thought was just outstanding. It was emotional, it made sense, average people could understand it: that the courtroom is a quiet place, Judge Roberts, where you park your political ideology and you call the balls and you call the strikes, and you try to give every American a fair shake and you put politics in its perspective. What is your biggest concern, if any, about the rule of law as it exists in America? And what are the biggest threats to the rule of law as we know it today? ROBERTS: Well, you know, the rule of law is always vulnerable because the Supreme Court, as has been pointed out often in history, has only the persuasive power of its opinions to command respect. There have been famous episodes in the past, you know -- President Jackson, Chief Justice Marshall has given his opinion; let's see him enforce it -- other episodes of that sort. But over time, the legitimacy of the Supreme Court has been established and it's generally recognized across the political spectrum that it is the obligation of the court to say what the law is and that the other branches have the obligation to obey what the Supreme Court says the law is. The one threat I think to the rule of law is a tendency on behalf of some judges to take that legitimacy and that authority and extend it into areas where they're going beyond the interpretation of the Constitution, where they're making the law. And because it's the Supreme Court, people are going to follow it even though they're making the law. The judges have to recognize that their role is a limited one. That is the basis of their legitimacy. I've said it before, and I'll just repeat myself: The framers were not the sort of people, having fought a revolution to get the right of self-government, to sit down and say, Let's take all the difficult issues before us and let's have the judges decide them. That would have been the farthest thing from their mind. The judges had the obligation to decide cases and the authority to interpret the Constitution because they had to decide cases. And they were going to decide those cases according to the law, not according to their personal preferences. Judges have to have the courage to make the unpopular decisions when they have to. That sometimes involves striking down acts of Congress. That sometimes involves ruling that acts of that executive are unconstitutional. That is a requirement of the judicial oath. You have to have that courage, but you also have to have the self- restraint to recognize that your role is limited to interpreting the law and does not include making the law. GRAHAM: What would you like history to say about you when it's all said and done? ROBERTS: I'd like them to start by saying: He was confirmed. (LAUGHTER) Whether they say that or not, I would like -- the answer is the same, I would like them to say I was a good judge. GRAHAM: Thank you very much. I have no further questions.
09.12.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made this statement on the nomination of John Roberts to the United States Supreme Court. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He said: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the seventh inning stretch, too. We all very much appreciate it. Judge Roberts, playing a little bit off of what my colleague Senator Feingold said, I don't think you expected it to be easy. Having to listen to 18 senators proves the fact that it's not going to be easy. But I hope we will live up to our end of the bargain to make it fair. Fair is something that comes around in September in South Carolina or it can be an idea. The idea of treating you fairly is very important to me because not only are you on display, but the Senate's on display. Senator Kennedy said something that I disagree with, but he's very passionate in his statement. He said the central issue is whether or not you will embrace policies, a certain set of policies, or whether or not you will roll back certain policy decisions. I respectfully disagree with Senator Kennedy. To me, the central issue before the Senate is whether or not the Senate will allow President Bush to fulfill his campaign promise to appoint a well- qualified, strict constructionist to the Supreme Court. And -- in this case -- appoint a Chief Justice to the Supreme Court in the mold of Justice Rehnquist. He's been elected president twice. He has not hidden from the public what his view of a Supreme Court justice should be and the philosophy they should embrace. In my opinion -- by picking you -- he has lived up to his end of the bargain with the American people by choosing a well-qualified, strict constructionist. You have been described as brilliant, talented and well- qualified, and that's by Democrats. The question is, is that enough in 2005 to get confirmed? Maybe not. Professor Michael Gerhardt wrote an article in 2000 called The Federal Appointments Process, and I think he has given some advice to our Democratic friends in the past and, maybe recently, about the confirmation process that we're engaged in today. He has written, the Constitution establishes a presumption of confirmation that works to the advantage of the president and his nominee. I agree with that. Elections matter. We're not here to debate how to solve all the nation's problems. We're not here to talk about liberal philosophy versus conservative philosophy and what's best for the country. We're here to talk about you and whether or not you are qualified to sit on the Supreme Court, whether or not you have the intellect, the integrity and the character. It has been said in the past by members of this committee -- Senator Kennedy -- I believe -- it's recognized by most senators that we're not charged with a responsibility of approving justices if their views always coincide with our own. We're really interested in knowing whether a nominee has the background, experience, qualifications, temperament, integrity to handle the most sensitive, important and responsible job. And that's being on the Supreme Court. If you're looking for consistency, you've probably come to the wrong place, because the truth of the matter is that we're all involved in the electoral process ourselves and we have different agendas. Your memos are going to be talked about. The memos you wrote while you were working for President Reagan and Bush 1, in my opinion, reflect a conservative lawyer advising a conservative president about conservative policies. To some, those policies make no sense; those policies are out of the mainstream. But this hearing is about whether or not you're qualified. Not whether Reagan conservatism is in the mainstream. Does affirmative action require quotas? From a conservative point of view, no. From a conservative point of view, we don't want federal judges setting the value of someone's wages from the bench. You wrote about that. Now, some people want that, but conservatives don't. Environmental policies: We want a clean environment, but we don't want to ruin the economy in the process. We want to be able to build levees to protect cities. Conservatives have a different view of a lot of issues versus our friends on the other side. The election determines how that shakes out. We're here to determine whether or not you and all you've done in your life makes you a fitting candidate to be on the Supreme Court. Before we got here, the Senate was in disarray. May 23rd of this year, I engaged in a compromise agreement with seven Democrats and seven Republicans to keep the Senate from blowing itself up. You're the first nomination that we've dealt with in any significant manner after that agreement. There's plenty of blame to go around, Judge Roberts. On our watch, I'm sure we did things in committee that were very unfair to Democrat nominees, particularly by President Clinton. At the time of that agreement, there were 10 people being filibustered, for the first time in the history of the Senate, in a partisan manner, that were going to be on the court of appeals. We were in chaos. We were at each other's throats. Since May 23rd, we've done better. The Senate has gotten back to a more traditional role when it comes to judges. As Senator Specter described the committee, we've done some good things on this committee and in the Senate as a whole. I hope we will take the chance to start over because the public approval of the Senate now is in the 30s. That’s not your fault, Judge Roberts; it's our fault. We have an opportunity as senators to show we can disagree based on philosophy but give you a fair shake. The question is whether we'll rise to the occasion. I'm hopeful we will based on the statements being made. What is the standard for a senator to confirm a Supreme Court nominee? Whatever the senator wants it to be. And, really, that's the way it should be. But there should be some goals, in my opinion. The way we conduct ourselves, one of the goals we should have, is to make sure we don't run good people away from wanting to be a judge. I don't know what it's like to sit at home and turn on the television and watch a commercial about you in the presence of your wife and your kids that say some pretty unflattering things. That's just not a problem you've faced. I'm sure Democratic nominees have faced the same type problem. We shouldn't, in our standard, be trying to come up with a standard to invalidate elections. The president won. The president told us what he's going to do and he did it. He picked a strict constructionist to be on the Supreme Court. If anybody is surprised, they weren't listening to the last campaign. Roe v. Wade: It divides America. If you believe in polling, most Americans would like to see the decision stand even though we're divided 50-50 on the idea of abortion on demand. My good friend from California has expressed a view about Roe v. Wade which I completely understand and respect. I can just tell you, Judge Roberts, there are plenty of women in South Carolina who have an opposite view about abortion. If we were to make our votes, base our votes on that one principle, Justice Ginsburg would not be Justice Ginsburg. In her writing, she embraced the idea of federal funding for abortion. She indicated that an abortion right was based on the equal protection clause of the Constitution. I dare say 90 percent of the Republican Caucus is pro-life. I dare say 90 percent of the Democratic Caucus is pro-choice. Justice Ginsburg got 96 votes even though she expressed a view of the federal government's role in abortion that I completely disagree with and I think most conservatives disagree with. There was a time not too long ago, Judge Roberts, where it was about the way you lived your life, how you conducted yourself, what kind of lawyer you were, what kind of man or woman you were, not whether you had an allegiance to a specific case or a particular cause. Let's get back to those days. Let's get back to the days where the Ginsburg’s and the Scalia’s can be pushed and pressed, but they can be honored for their commitment to the law and the way they live their life. Let's get back to the good old days where we understood that we were looking for well-qualified people to sit on the highest court of the land -- not political clones of our own philosophy. The reason I signed the agreement more than anything else was that I love the law. The role of the law in our society is so important. You take out the rule of law and you don't have a democracy. The law, Judge Roberts, to me, represents a quiet place in American discourse. Politics is a loud, noisy and destructive place. But the courtroom is a quiet place where the weak can challenge the strong and the unpopular can be heard. I know you will honor the rule of law in our country and that you will be a judge that we all can be proud of. God bless you and your family. ##### Note: Audio of Senator Graham's statement is available at the Senate Republican Conference radio page.
09.12.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement at the conclusion of the first day of hearings on the nomination of John Roberts to the U.S. Supreme Court. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He said: “I thought it was a good day for the U.S. Senate. I thought we acquitted ourselves well on both sides of the aisle. About two and a half months ago, that was not an assured event. “Justice [Ruth Bader] Ginsburg was liberal. She got 96 votes in the Senate. Justice [Antonin] Scalia was conservative. He got 98 votes. How many will Judge Roberts get? If people judge him based on his qualifications and the way he's lived his life, he should get 100. “Judge Roberts passed the ultimate test of anyone who wants to sit on the Supreme Court. To the public at large, I believe they saw a man they would feel comfortable with judging them and their family if they ever found themselves in a courtroom. Judge Roberts spoke from the heart and described his view of the law in a way people could understand. He convinced, I think, anyone who's reasonable that he's going to try his best to be a good judge. “The confirmation hearings have always been about whether or not the president's nominee will get an up-or-down vote. The only way he would not be confirmed is through a filibuster and until recently that's been a rare event in the Senate. After his opening statement today, I don't believe anybody will be able to mount a challenge he's out of the mainstream or he's the kind of person that should not be on the court. “Judge Roberts came across as a guy who knows what he believes, is well schooled in the law, and possesses the intellect and the integrity to sit on the court. He's a conservative. To expect George W. Bush to appoint anyone other than a conservative, you didn't listen to the last two elections.” #####
09.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $630,000 in grants to fire departments across South Carolina. “Firefighters and emergency service personnel dedicate themselves to protecting the health and safety of South Carolinians,” said Graham. “These grants help fire departments save lives by providing the means to obtain the best equipment and training available.” The Operations and Firefighter Safety Program grant may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. The grants awarded include: Chesterfield Teal’s Mill Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive $52,440. Clio Clio Rural Fire Department will receive $67,288. Cowpens Cowpens Fire Department will receive $151,354. Lancaster Antioch Volunteer Fire Department will receive $61,375. Ridge Spring Ridge Spring Volunteer Fire Department will receive $34,067. Summerville Summerville Fire Department will receive $136,080. Whitmire Whitmire Rescue Squad will receive $109,590. Winnsboro Fairfield County Emergency Services will receive $22,140. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
09.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the passing of William Rehnquist, Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court. He said: "Our thoughts and prayers go out to all the members of the Rehnquist family. "In his service to our nation, Chief Justice Rehnquist was the epitomy of a conservative Supreme Court Justice. His time on the Court was historic as he helped shape the Court's direction away from judicial acvtivism to a more traditional role. "I vividly remember the dignity and firmness he provided during the Senate impeachment trial of former President Clinton. I fully believe his calming and dignified influence during that difficult period served our nation well. "Chief Justice Rehnquist will be missed and all Americans owe him a debt of gratitude for his service to our nation." #####
09.01.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced six Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU’s) in South Carolina will receive more than $7.3 million in grants to support and expand scientific and technical programs. “In the coming decades, nuclear security and reducing the threat of global terrorism are vitally important to protecting and defending our national interests,” said Graham. “I am proud that South Carolina’s HBCU’s are taking a leading role in preparing the next generation of professionals in these fields.” Recipients include: Allen University will receive $2 million to support the Mathematics, Science and Technology Expansion and Improvement Program. Benedict College will receive $500,000 to support infrastructure, research and student development in science, technology, engineering and mathematics to support national security. Claflin College will receive $2 million to support the Preparation of a Technologically Literate Science Workforce to Meet the Needs of the 21st Century program. Morris College will receive $500,000 to support programs that prepare students for careers in nuclear security. South Carolina State University will receive $1,301,926 to establish a pilot program in radiochemistry. Voorhees College will receive $1 million to support Lighting the Way: The Voorhees College Virtual Learning in Cyber Security Education. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA). The goal of the NNSA/HBCU Program is to support the NNSA mission by increasing the capabilities of HBCU faculty and students to participate NNSA programs. ####
08.31.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $640,000 in grants to fire departments in Abbeville, Branchville, Cameron, Pickens, and Wallace. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The grants were awarded in one of three program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Abbeville City of Abbeville Fire Department will receive a $24,855 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Branchville Cattle Creek Fire Department will receive a $185,250 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Cameron Cameron Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $190,000 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Pickens Holly Springs Fire Department will receive a $71,438 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Wallace Wallace Fire Department will receive a $171,950 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
08.31.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Columbia Metropolitan Airport will receive a $1,591,032 increase to a previously awarded grant for airport improvements. This brings the total grant award for this project to $5,998,940. The money will be used to rehabilitate and increase apron areas. The funding also improves the terminal building by acquiring and installing loading bridges to enhance passenger and airline efficiency. Safety at the airport will be enhanced by the installation of perimeter fencing around a portion of the airport boundary. In addition, the airport will purchase an aircraft rescue and fire fighting rapid intervention vehicle. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
08.30.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina State University will receive a $150,000 grant to support the school’s rehabilitation counseling program. South Carolina State University’s rehabilitation counseling program was started in 1972 and was the first such program at a Historically Black College and University. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Myrtle Beach International Airport will receive $930,000 in federal grant money for taxiway rehabilitation. This is the third and final phase in the rehabilitation of Taxiway J. “I've been very impressed by the growth of air travel in Myrtle Beach,” said Graham “We must continue to build the necessary infrastructure to allow the airport to grow. There's no doubt in my mind that increased air travel will tremendously enhance economic opportunities in the Grand Strand.” The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
08.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) announced a grant of $500,000 to the city of Florence for the purpose of air service improvement. The grant has been awarded under the Small Community Air Service Development Program through the U.S. Department of Transportation. It will be used to institute a comprehensive marketing program to increase use of the airport. Local sources will contribute additional funds as well as provide in-kind contributions to this community effort. The program helps communities address the challenges of local air service, such as high fares and insufficient levels of service. The grants will be used by communities around the country for programs such as financial incentives to air carriers, studies to determine air service needs, and marketing programs that encourage communities to use commercial carriers offering local air service. ###
08.24.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Jim DeMint and Lindsey Graham announced $1,079,479 in grants for South Carolina Fire Departments. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation's firefighters and the services they deliver. For the FY 2005 program, Congress appropriated, and President Bush signed into law, $650 million in direct assistance to firefighters to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. The Department of Homeland Security’s Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP) administers the program, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The following South Carolina cities were awarded grants: Anderson Center Rock Fire Department will receive a $116,824 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Elloree Elloree Fire Department will receive a $185,250 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Midway Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $235,600 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Eutawville Eutawville Fire Department will receive a $93,110 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Moncks Corner Moncks Corner Rural Fire Department will receive a $61,299 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Seneca Friendship Volunteer Fire Department will receive an $86,292 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Sharon Crossroads Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $118,750 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Simpsonville Simpsonville Fire Department will receive a $46,800 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. St. Matthews Fort Motte Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $97,090 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Whitmire Whitmire Fire Department will receive a $38,464 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. ####
08.23.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Marion County School District Two will receive an $813,679 Safe Schools/Healthy Students grant. The Safe Schools/Healthy Students Initiative is a national grant program that provides federal funds to create safe and drug-free schools, develop social skills, and promote healthy childhood development. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.23.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Lancaster County School District will receive an $894,523 Safe Schools/Healthy Students grant. The Safe Schools/Healthy Students Initiative is a national grant program that provides federal funds to create safe and drug-free schools, develop social skills, and promote healthy childhood development. Graham recently visited Lancaster and met with local officials to discuss education, social security, and other issues of local concern. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.19.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $450,000 in grants to counties and cities throughout South Carolina to support local law enforcement. Grant recipients include: Counties Chester County will receive $20,363 to purchase holsters, shotguns, an evidence and property module, and other equipment. Chesterfield County will receive $21,203 to purchase equipment for drug and alcohol interdiction and counter terrorism programs. Clarendon County will receive $18,803 to purchase undercover surveillance equipment. Georgetown County will receive $30,885 to purchase computer hardware and software. Jasper County will receive $14,082 to purchase hard communications infrastructure and enhance the Mobile Data Project. Kershaw County will receive $25,444 to purchase security cameras, audio/video equipment, and weapons. In addition funds will be used to provide specialized training for officers. Lancaster County will receive $26,124 to update computer hardware for the patrol division, and to purchase uniforms and training equipment. Oconee County will receive $23,244 to purchase radios, forensic and crime scene supplies, cameras, canine unit equipment, emergency response and personal protective equipment, tactical and surveillance equipment, and training aids. Cities Anderson will receive $24,804 to support the “Street Level Criminal Apprehension Program.” Chester will receive $18,363 to purchase body armor, uniforms, and a certified trained drug dog. Columbia will receive $148,784 to purchase in-car digital cameras, 800MHz radios, mobile data terminals, mobile and field based reporting software, forensic lab supplies, prison cages for patrol vehicles, computers, and printers. Hartsville will receive $17,523 to purchase equipment for traffic safety and traffic enforcement including vests, cones, handheld radar units, and a speed monitor trailer. Myrtle Beach will receive $46,527 to purchase a radar unit, traffic accident investigation equipment, and motorcycle communications kits. York will receive $13,122 to support safety, security, and traffic control activities. All grants were awarded through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program. ####
08.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced North Charleston will receive a $225,000 grant to support the Weed and Seed program. Weed and Seed aims to prevent, control, and reduce violent crime, drug abuse, and gang activity in targeted high-crime neighborhoods. The strategy involves a two-pronged approach: law enforcement agencies and prosecutors cooperate in ‘weeding out’ criminals who participate in violent crime and drug abuse, attempting to prevent their return to the targeted area; and ‘seeding’ brings human services to the area, encompassing prevention, intervention, treatment, and neighborhood revitalization. This is the fifth award for the North Charleston program which serves four neighborhoods in the community. During this project period, program goals include reducing gun violence, improving quality of life in the neighborhoods, providing human resource programs to address the needs of residents, and improving the physical condition of the neighborhoods. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Spartanburg will receive a $225,000 grant to support the Weed and Seed program. Weed and Seed aims to prevent, control, and reduce violent crime, drug abuse, and gang activity in targeted high-crime neighborhoods. The strategy involves a two-pronged approach: law enforcement agencies and prosecutors cooperate in ‘weeding out’ criminals who participate in violent crime and drug abuse, attempting to prevent their return to the targeted area; and ‘seeding’ brings human services to the area, encompassing prevention, intervention, treatment, and neighborhood revitalization. This is the fourth award for the Spartanburg program. During this project period, program goals include identification and apprehension of persons involved in violent crime and drugs, encouraging and expanding community involvement in problem solving efforts, providing education and prevention programs for area youth, and improving neighborhood planning and housing. Graham noted that Spartanburg has also been awarded a $21,250 grant to implement a Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.) program. G.R.E.A.T.’s violence prevention curriculum helps students develop values and practice behaviors that will assist them in avoiding gang pressure and destructive activities. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Jim DeMint and Lindsey Graham announced $3,999,743 in grants for South Carolina Fire Departments. The Assistance to Firefighters Grant Program (AFGP) awards one-year grants directly to fire departments to support the nation's firefighters and the services they deliver. For the FY 2005 program, Congress appropriated, and President Bush signed into law, $650 million in direct assistance to firefighters to improve the effectiveness of firefighting operations, firefighter health and safety programs, and to establish or expand fire prevention programs throughout the United States. The Department of Homeland Security’s Office for Domestic Preparedness (ODP) administers the program, in cooperation with the U.S. Fire Administration. The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The following South Carolina cities were awarded grants: Abbeville Cold Springs Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $188,100 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Edgewood Fire Department will receive a $41,514 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Sharon Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $34,696 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Aiken Silver Bluff Fire Department will receive a $47,731 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Anderson Broadway Fire Department will receive a $65,709 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Batesburg Sandy Ridge Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $37,339 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Beaufort Beaufort Fire Department will receive a $173,271 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Beech Island Clearwater Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $62,168 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Boiling Springs Boiling Springs Fire Department will receive a $70,300 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Boiling Springs Fire District will receive a $97,452 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Conway Conway Fire Department will receive a $50,054 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Cross Anchor Cross Anchor Fire Department will receive a $62,685 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Donalds Broadmouth-Turkey Creek Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $40,290 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Easley Easley Fire Department will receive a $170,971 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Fountain Inn Fountain Inn Fire & Rescue will receive a $66,806 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Gaffney Draytonville-Mckown-Mountain-Wilkinsville Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $200,450 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Honea Path Keowee Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $63,456 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Iva Grove Fire Department will receive a $213,750 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Lancaster Elgin Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $143,450 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Lyman Holly Springs Volunteer Fire District will receive a $164,825 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Marietta Slater-Marietta will receive a $54,535 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Murrells Inlet – Garden City Murrells Inlet-Garden City Fire District will receive a $231,691 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Moncks Corner Moncks Corner Fire Department will receive a $97,052 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Mt. Carmel Willington-Mt. Carmel Volunteer Fire Dept. will receive a $213,750 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Olar Olar Fire Department will receive a $15,234 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Orangeburg Jamison Fire Department will receive a $185,250 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Orangeburg Department of Public Safety will receive a $157,500 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Pickens Pumpkintown Area Fire Protection District will receive a $14,702 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Pomaria Pomaria Rescue Squad will receive a $73,625 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Salley Hollow Creek Fire Department will receive a $195,225 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Taylors Taylors Fire Dept will receive a $47,250 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Townville Double Springs Fire Department will receive a $55,556 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Wagener Wagener Fire Department will receive a $57,000 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Walhalla Pickett Post - Camp Oak Fire Department will receive a $140,710 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Westminster Oakway Rescue Squad, Inc. will receive a $48,980 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Williamston Piercetown Fire Department will receive a $90,250 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Windsor Windsor Fire Department will receive a $171,416 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. Winnsboro Greenbrier- Bethel Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $152,000 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. ###
08.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $260,000 in grants to counties and cities throughout South Carolina to support local law enforcement. Grant recipients include: Counties Anderson County will receive $85,750 to upgrade the Sheriff’s Department communications system. Darlington County will receive $35,446 to support and expand the Automated Incident Report Writing System. This system allows deputies to process incident data into a laptop and then download the data into the main server at the Sheriff’s Office. Fairfield County will receive $25,284 to purchase equipment including in-car video cameras and hand held recorders. Williamsburg County will receive $23,764 to purchase a fingerprint image capture machine. Cities Darlington will receive $13,162 to purchase equipment including tasers, handguns, and a trailer to transport crime scene equipment. Lake City will receive $15,562 to purchase equipment for law enforcement activities in the areas of narcotics interdiction and enforcement, first responders to tactical situations, narcotics high risk interdiction, and line operations of patrol officers. Sumter will receive $63,090 to purchase an in-car digital video system. All grants were awarded through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program. ####
08.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the University of South Carolina Beaufort (USCB) will receive a $250,000 grant to support the Hampton II Boot-Up Program. The program seeks to increase student achievement in grades 9-12 through the creation of technology-rich learning environments and after school tutoring activities. In addition, the program will provide Hampton residents with access to adult education and family wellness resources and training. The Hampton II Boot-Up Program is sponsored by the USCB/Hampton Partnership Initiative which includes USCB, Hampton County School District II, the Progressive Alliance of Ministers, and the Hampton County Department of Social Services. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the passing of former Congressman William Jennings Bryan Dorn. Graham said: “Congressman Dorn never lost his desire for service and was always a friend to our nation’s veterans. He served his state and nation with great character and integrity. With his passing South Carolina has lost one of her most noble statesmen.” ####
08.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $454,000 in grants to counties throughout South Carolina to support local law enforcement. Grant recipients include: Berkeley County will receive $89,494 to provide equipment and training for the Special Response Teams, the Investigative Division, School Resource Officers, the Uniform Patrol Division, and the K-9 Unit. Beaufort County will receive $75,172 to purchase and implement a Reverse 911 Notification System that will enable the county to notify citizens of various situations including severe weather, hazardous material exposure, terror alerts, Amber alerts, and other situations deemed necessary by the Beaufort County Emergency Management Department. Charleston County will receive $95,255 to purchase video cameras, digital cameras, and flight helmets for Sheriff’s department helicopter pilots. In addition, the funds will be used to pay a salary in the Solicitor’s office. Greenwood County will receive $85,573 and will share the grant evenly with the City of Greenwood. The County will use the funds to upgrade equipment for first responders. The City will use funds to improve law enforcement and criminal justice capabilities provided to the local community. Orangeburg County will receive $109,217 to purchase surveillance equipment, patrol unit equipment, and desktop computers. All grants were awarded through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program. ####
08.11.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Highway Eighty-Eight Water Company in La France will receive a $407,000 grant and a $1,337,000 loan for water system improvements. The funds will be used for installation of a pumping/metering station, installing trunk main in the heart of the distribution system, installing new mains throughout the system, and enhancing system hydraulics. The grant and the loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
08.10.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Donaldson Center will receive a $1,385,000 grant to acquire 6.14 acres of land needed for development. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
08.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education will receive a $2,468,637 grant to support GEAR UP programs across the state. GEAR UP is a national grant program to support early college preparation and awareness activities for low-income students. South Carolina GEAR UP (SCGU) will implement programs in twenty-two schools across the state. SCGU will start working with students in the seventh grade to produce positive, long-term, and systemic effects on low-income student participation in postsecondary education. Programs will be implemented based on a needs assessment and include professional development, curriculum improvement, mentoring, tutoring, summer programs, program evaluation, and encouraging business and community partnerships. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the National College of District Attorneys (NCDA) in Columbia will receive an $867,861 grant to help stop abuse and sexual assault against older individuals and individuals with disabilities. The NCDA will collaborate with the National Clearinghouse on Abuse in Later Life and other organizations to develop two national curricula for training prosecutors and victim advocates. The programs will instruct participants in recognizing, addressing, investigating, and prosecuting cases involving elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation, and violence against individuals with disabilities. The NCDA is a non-profit educational institution that provides continuing legal education and training for prosecuting attorneys through programs specifically tailored to meet their needs. NCDA was established by the National District Attorneys Association, the American College of Trial Lawyers, and the American Bar Association in 1970 and moved its headquarters to the University of South Carolina Law School in 1999. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Lancaster County School District will receive two federal grants for more than $742,000. They will receive a $492,423 grant to support the Lancaster County GEAR UP program. GEAR UP is a national grant program to support early college preparation and awareness activities for low-income students. Lancaster County School District will provide a comprehensive network of services including tutoring, college awareness workshops, enhanced guidance, parent workshops, field trips to colleges and universities, and a scholarship program funded by a private foundation. The school district will also receive a $250,441 grant to provide professional development for arts educators. The funds will be used to support professional development programs in elementary and secondary schools for music, dance, drama, media arts, visual arts, and other arts programs. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Timmonsville will receive a $1,792,000 grant and a $3,063,000 loan to upgrade the wastewater treatment plant. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
08.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced The Citadel will receive a $178,400 grant to support its GEAR UP program. GEAR UP is a national grant program to support early college preparation and awareness activities for low-income students. The Citadel will provide teacher training for rigorous and relevant academics, especially in math and science; establish a Parent University to help parents understand the benefits of college attendance; and, provide GEAR UP students with academic preparation in reading and math. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Claflin University will receive a $520,000 grant to support its GEAR UP program. GEAR UP is a national grant program to support early college preparation and awareness activities for low-income students. The goal of the Claflin GEAR UP Program is to ensure disadvantaged at-risk middle school and secondary students enrolled at target schools in Orangeburg are prepared for, pursue, and succeed in postsecondary education. The program begins to work with students in the sixth grade at both middle schools in Orangeburg School District Five. Activities include mentoring, tutoring, counseling, financial aid information, parental involvement and empowerment training. In addition, students are offered opportunities to participate in after-school and extended-day activities, Saturday academies, a five week Summer Enrichment Institute, and college visits. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
08.08.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Myrtle Beach International airport will receive a $340,251 grant. The project will allow for a new regional airport feasibility study to be undertaken by the Northeast Strategic Alliance (NESA) to examine the need for a new regional commercial service airport. Graham has worked closely with NESA on various projects including airport improvements and securing funding for Interstate 73. NESA promotes the development of the ten county area including the historic Pee Dee and Waccamaw regions and the coastal areas of the Grand Strand and Georgetown. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
08.08.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Calhoun Falls will receive a $373,100 grant and a $211,000 loan for infrastructure relocation. The funds will be used to relocate water and sewer lines along the new rights of way of Highway 72. The South Carolina Department of Transportation will also contribute $334,226 to this project. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
08.08.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced two organizations will receive more than $232,000 in federal grants to benefit Williamsburg County. The Nesmith Community Improvement Association in Kingstree will receive a $132,913 grant to establish a revolving loan fund to assist small and emerging businesses in the county. Telamon Corporation in Columbia will receive a $100,000 grant to repair and rehabilitate low-income homes in the Williamsburg/Lake City Enterprise Community. Both grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
08.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $1.2 million in grants to counties and cities throughout South Carolina to support local law enforcement. Grant recipients include: Counties Aiken County will receive $48,808 to purchase equipment including digital cameras and in-car cameras. Cherokee County will receive $28,725 to purchase a police cruiser and communications equipment. Colleton County will receive $38,806 to purchase radar units. Dillon County will receive $19,163 to purchase communications equipment. Dorchester County will receive $34,125 to purchase computer equipment and software. Florence County will receive $60,810 to improve digital imaging capabilities and purchase vehicle audio/video equipment. Greenville County will receive $224,115 to purchase equipment and fund an adult drug court in the Thirteenth Circuit Solicitor’s Office. Laurens County will receive $42,007 to fund several projects including education and fingerprinting programs for children, and a community crime prevention education program. Lee County will receive $15,002 to purchase vehicle equipment and tasers. Marlboro County will receive $22,884 to purchase a four-wheel drive vehicle to assist with the Metropolitan Drug Enforcement Program. Pickens County will receive $21,203 to enhance the Sheriff’s Emergency Response Team (SERT). Spartanburg County will receive $122,059 to purchase in-car digital cameras. York County will receive $65,770 to purchase a targeting system for the Weapons Training Facility, communications equipment, and mobile data and field reporting systems. Cities Bennettsville will receive $16,683 to enhance the Crossroads Program to help eliminate school suspensions. Charleston will receive $78,732 to purchase a firearms training system to be used by multiple law enforcement agencies in the Charleston area. Florence will receive $61,090 to purchase two vehicles, laptop computers, projectors, and office equipment for the Community Services Division. Georgetown will receive $13,642 to deploy a speed monitoring device. Lancaster will receive $35,246 to purchase equipment, computer technology, and other support materials. Mt. Pleasant will receive $10,722 to upgrade evidence/crime scene software. North Charleston will receive $119,459 to purchase equipment including cameras and radar equipment. Spartanburg will receive $96,455 for the purchase mobile data terminals and software and to make tactical enhancements. Summerville will receive $17,163 to purchase and upgrade patrol laptop computers. West Columbia will receive $32,045 to provide enhanced training for officers and to purchase tasers and a defibrillator. All grants were awarded through the U.S. Department of Justice’s Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant Program. ####
08.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Spartanburg will receive a $397,416 grant to combat domestic violence. The grant will support Spartanburg’s collaborative effort with Safe Homes-Rape Crisis to implement a multi-disciplinary response to investigate and prosecute domestic violence cases. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Anderson Regional Airport will receive a $2.65 million grant for airport improvements. The funds will be used for the final phase of a runway and taxiway extension, and to relocate the medium intensity approach lighting system. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
08.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Attorney General’s office will receive a $900,000 grant to combat domestic violence. The grant will be used to implement a new project in collaboration with the South Carolina Coalition Against Domestic Violence and Sexual Assault and the South Carolina Baptist Convention. The funds will help hire and train three attorneys to prosecute cases in the summary courts of Chesterfield, Clarendon, Darlington, Dillon, Marion, Marlboro, and Williamsburg counties. In addition, the project will hire and train three court advocates to assist victims of domestic violence, dating violence, and child victimization. The grant will also be used to employ a full-time Immigrant Outreach Specialist to coordinate efforts in the Hispanic population. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
08.01.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on President Bush’s recess appointment of John Bolton as Ambassador to the United Nations. “I completely support the President’s decision to make a recess appointment of John Bolton as Ambassador to the United Nations. He is the right person at the right time to reform the UN. “I am extremely disappointed President Bush had to resort to a recess appointment. However, I believe it is important the President not allow Democrats to void the results of the last election. The filibustering of John Bolton was inappropriate as he has been confirmed by the Senate on four previous occasions. “The world desperately needs a functioning United Nations that is free of corruption and operates efficiently, both of which are lacking at the current moment. John Bolton has the credentials and abilities to right the ship and is an excellent choice as UN Ambassador.” ####
07.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act. The bill would shield makers of firearms from lawsuits intended to drive them out of business. “I’m pleased Congress has decided to not hold gun manufacturers liable for a criminal’s misuse of a gun,” said Graham. “It’s truly absurd that a gun manufacturer or dealer could be sued because a criminal uses their product in the commission of a crime. It’s the criminal who needs to be held accountable for their actions, not the gun manufacturer.” Graham noted that since 1997 more than 30 cities and counties have sued firearms companies. This has cost the industry over $200 million in legal fees even though most of the cases have been dismissed. The lawsuits are designed to severely weaken or eradicate the firearms and ammunition manufacturing industry in the United States. “Gun manufacturers and dealers are highly regulated and responsible for following the law,” said Graham. “Passage of this legislation will end these frivolous suits which are driving gun manufacturers out of the business and out of the United States.” “I’m also glad we acted because our national security is at stake,” said Graham. “Some of the gun manufacturers who were targets of these frivolous lawsuits also provide firearms to our men and women in the U.S Armed Forces.” ####
07.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – South Carolina Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today voted in support of the Interior Appropriations bill. The bill passed the Senate and will now be sent to the President for his signature. Among the notable projects for South Carolina include: Columbia: $200,000 to the Bethel Cultural Arts Center Greer: $500,000 to the Maple Creek Water Treatment Plant Myrtle Beach: $615,000 to the Myrtle Beach Storm Water Management System Olar & Govan: $733,000 to the Olar & Govan Regional Water System Orangeburg: $350,000 to the dam project at the National Fish Hatchery. The funds will also be used to help complete the water line construction project at the National Conservation Training Center. Statewide Projects Include: $800,000 to the South Carolina National Heritage Corridor ####
07.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) will vote in support of the Energy bill which is expected to pass the Senate today. The bill has already passed the House of Representatives. The legislation has been a top priority for President Bush since taking office in 2001 and he is expected to sign it into law. The energy bill is a comprehensive national energy policy that seeks to balance domestic energy production with conservation and efficiency efforts. It will also make us less dependent on foreign sources of oil. “This is the biggest legislative breakthrough we have had since I have been in the Senate,” said Graham. “The passage of the energy bill will make us less dependent on Middle East oil, expand and diversify our energy resources, and provide billions for hydrogen research.” Graham noted the legislation contains more than $3.5 billion in funding over the next 5 years for hydrogen research. The hydrogen provision in the bill was largely based upon language authored by Graham and North Dakota Senator Byron Dorgan (D-ND) which was introduced in the Senate earlier this year. “Our state is a national leader in hydrogen research,” said Graham. “USC is developing fuel cells, Clemson is working on hydrogen vehicles, and Savannah River Site (SRS) is a leading research facility on hydrogen technologies. What Detroit was to the automotive industry, South Carolina can be to hydrogen.” South Carolina is on the cutting edge of hydrogen research and hydrogen holds the potential to be the new fuel for the 21st Century,” said Graham. “We’ve got research initiatives going on across the state and we’re on the ground floor in cutting-edge hydrogen research. The legislation will benefit our state by helping push further in hydrogen research.” Graham also praised the nuclear energy provisions in the bill. “This is the biggest move forward for nuclear power in decades by providing tax incentives and research funding to build 21st Century reactors,” said Graham. “Nuclear energy is a clean source of power and one we need to utilize more in the coming years.” “Unfortunately, changes in energy policy will not mean people at the pump will see an immediate decrease in their gas prices,” said Graham. “Like President Bush has said, ‘I wish I could just wave a wand and lower the price at the pump.’ It’s taken a while for us to get into this situation and it will take a while to begin working our way out. This bill is a big step in the right direction. It meets the major objectives of producing and conserving more energy, diversifying our energy supply, and employing the latest technology to deliver energy. ” #####
07.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Gresham Barrett (R-S.C.) joined U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C) and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) in announcing over $21 million in the House-Senate highway conference report to fund road projects in the Third Congressional District of South Carolina. The surface transportation bill provides $286.4 billion in federal highway contract authority between 2004 and 2009, and is expected to pass the Senate and the House later this week. President Bush is expected to sign the legislation soon after. "I appreciate Senator DeMint's efforts as a conferee to help secure funding for these projects," said Congressman Barrett. "This funding will go a long way toward improving the transportation infrastructure and safety of roadways and bridges throughout the Third District. Additionally, I thank Senator Graham for his continued dedication to the people of the Third District." "The highway bill is very good news for motorists in South Carolina," said Senator Graham. "As a state, we were able to secure a more equitable funding formula which will put additional dollars toward our road system. It truly moves the ball forward in our efforts to build new roads while maintaining and improving the ones we currently have. I truly appreciate Gresham's work in the House helping ensure our needs were met and interests were protected." "The funding for these projects will improve our infrastructure and make South Carolina more competitive while also improving safety and our quality of life," said Senator DeMint. "I sincerely appreciate Gresham's hard work in securing these funds, as he fought to make sure the Third District's priorities were given attention. I also want to personally thank Lindsey for his leadership and help to ensure South Carolina was treated fairly throughout this process." Notable Funding for Third District Projects: Palmetto Parkway, Aiken- $11,600,000 Replace Milford Rd Bridge, Anderson- $400,000 Replace Murphy Rd West, Anderson- $188,000 Replace Murphy Rd East Bridge, Anderson- $212,000 Extension of Wells Highway, Oconee- $3,600,000 Interchange at I-385 and SC-14, Laurens- $3,760,000 Frontage Rd, Laurens- $2,240,000 ####
07.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, South Carolina’s Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint announced their support for the House-Senate highway conference report. The surface transportation bill provides $286.4 billion in federal highway contract authority between 2004 and 2009, and is expected to pass the Senate and the House later this week. President Bush is expected to sign the legislation soon after. “I’m very pleased we were able to get a deal that is more responsible for taxpayers,” said Senator DeMint, a member of the House and Senate conference committee. “This bill is not perfect but it’s a good step forward. I would have liked it to spend even less overall and to return even more to South Carolina, but this bill is a good compromise that stays within the budget and provides important benefits for our state.” “The highway bill is very good news for motorists in South Carolina,” said Graham. “As a state, we were able to secure a more equitable funding formula which will put additional dollars toward our road system. It truly moves the ball forward in our efforts to build new roads while maintaining and improving the ones we currently have. I’m also pleased we were able to do it without breaking the federal bank. The bill is more fiscally responsible than the first version of the highway bill Senator DeMint and I voted against.” In May, Senators DeMint and Graham voted against the original version of the bill that significantly exceeded budget authority. Their opposition, along with a veto threat from the President, pressured negotiators to agree on a more responsible bill that limits the six-year cost to $286.4 billion from fiscal year 2004 through fiscal 2009. Negotiators originally wanted to pass a $375 billion bill but the final compromise was much less, saving taxpayers over billions of dollars. The highway conference report includes several important benefits for South Carolina secured by Senators Graham and DeMint. Under the new highway program, a better formula will return more federal gas tax dollars to South Carolina. South Carolina will ultimately receive 92 percent back on every dollar it sends to Washington in gas taxes, which is a meaningful increase from the 90.5 percent the state has received since 1998. The bill authorizes a total of over $2.9 billion for South Carolina over the six-year life of the program, an increase of nearly twenty-eight percent. The conference report also includes a new safety program that will give states greater flexibility in addressing safety needs. This program will provide for safety improvements such as adding rumble strips, widening lanes, installing guard rails, and creating additional signage. All public roads are eligible for this new safety funding, benefiting states like South Carolina that have a high percentage of state-maintained roads. “This bill accomplishes one of my top goals for the year by giving our state more control over our highway dollars,” DeMint said. “But much more still needs to be done. I hope that the next reauthorization will address serious reforms and give states full control over their highways. The federal program was created to develop an interstate highway system, but that system has been created and now we need to let the states run it.” “I truly appreciate the work done by Jim [DeMint] and Henry [Brown] on the highway bill,” said Graham. “They’ve been leaders in this area and we all owe them a debt of gratitude for what they’ve been able to accomplish. Making sure our state was treated in a fair and equitable manner was a team effort, but these two guys served as team captains and deserve a great deal of credit.” In addition to several important policy changes the conference report provides a fair share for South Carolina by authorizing over $2.9 billion in funding for transportation and infrastructure projects all across South Carolina. Specifically, the bill provides for $81 million in authorized funding for I-73 in the Pee Dee, $26.6 million for US-278 in Beaufort County, $11.6 million for the Palmetto Parkway in Aiken County, $6.8 million for Highway 9 in Spartanburg County, $4 million for Highway 5 in York County, among many others. ######
07.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Joe Wilson (R-S.C.) joined U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) in announcing over $47 million in the House-Senate Highway Conference Report to fund road projects in the Second Congressional District of South Carolina. The surface transportation bill provides $286.4 billion in federal highway contract authority between 2004 and 2009, and is expected to pass the Senate and the House later this week. President Bush is expected to sign the legislation soon after. "When families travel the roads and highways of South Carolina, they should feel safe," said Congressman Wilson "Unfortunately, I learn daily about traffic accidents on these roads. By widening and improving our roadways, this legislation will help solve many of our infrastructure problems and will make travel safer and easier for drivers throughout the Second District. After working with state, federal, and local officials, I'm thrilled to see our efforts were met with real solutions. I would specifically like to thank Senators Graham and DeMint for their hard work. As we continue to work together to improve our highways, funding for Highway 278 will remain my top transportation priority." "The highway bill is very good news for motorists in South Carolina," said Senator Graham. "As a state, we were able to secure a more equitable funding formula which will put additional dollars toward our road system. It truly moves the ball forward in our efforts to build new roads while maintaining and improving the ones we currently have. I truly appreciate Joe's work in the House helping ensure our needs were met and interests were protected." "The funding for these projects will improve our infrastructure and make South Carolina more competitive while also improving safety and our quality of life," said Senator DeMint. "No one worked harder than Joe to secure these funds. He met repeatedly with leadership and conferees to fight for Second District priorities, and he should be applauded. We are especially pleased about Highway 278's significant funding. This has been a safety risk to the people of the Lowcountry for too long, and we are finally making real progress. I also want to personally thank Lindsey for his leadership and help to ensure South Carolina was treated fairly throughout this process." Notable Funding for Second District Projects: Widening of 278, Beaufort- $26,600,000 US 17 in Beaufort/Colleton Counties, Beaufort/Colleton- $10,000,000 Lexington Connector, Lexington- $4,600,000 I-26/US 1 Airport Intermodal Connector, Lexington- $1,600,000 Harden Street Improvements, Richland- $5,000,000 ####
07.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Department of Public Safety will receive a $5,802,326 grant to support crime prevention and control activates. The Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant will be used to improve cooperative efforts among federal, state, and local agencies to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the criminal justice system. Funds will primarily be used to address the lack of resources available to law enforcement. In addition, money will be spent to improve criminal justice records, court system efficiency, substance abuse treatment, and crime prevention. Graham noted that several cities and one county were also awarded grants under the same program yesterday: The City of Aiken will receive $14,282 to purchase nine computers which will allow officers in the field to download information to the main computer in the station. The City of Conway will receive $21,843 to purchase a digital recording system to be placed in the dispatch center. The City of North Myrtle Beach will receive $10,722 to purchase tasers. Sumter County will receive $59,529 to purchase mobile data terminals, tasers, and bullet proof vests. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
07.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, U.S. Congressman Bob Inglis (R-S.C.) joined U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C) and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) in announcing support for the House-Senate highway conference report. The bill promises to return to South Carolina at least 92 percent of the gas taxes collected in South Carolina. In the previous highway bills (renewed every 6 years) South Carolina's return ratio has been as low as 81 percent. The House-passed version of the bill called for expenditures of $284 billion between 2004 and 2009; the Senate-passed version would have spent $295 billion; and the conferees settled at $286.4 billion. The conference report is expected to pass the Senate and the House later this week, and President Bush is expected to sign the legislation soon after. “With pressure from the President and the budget resolution, the conferees stayed closer to the overall spending level of the House. That's good,” Inglis said. “With pressure from the donor states, the conferees got us to a 92 percent return ratio. That's even better.” The conference report contains $19 million for road projects in South Carolina's Fourth District. In a victory for fiscal accountability, those amounts (as well as all amounts earmarked for districts across the country) are included in the determination of the “return ratio.” “The highway bill is very good news for motorists in South Carolina,” said Senator Graham. “As a state, we were able to secure a more equitable funding formula which will put additional dollars toward our road system. It truly moves the ball forward in our efforts to build new roads while maintaining and improving the ones we currently have. I truly appreciate Bob’s work in the House helping ensure our needs were met and interests were protected.” “The funding for these projects will improve our infrastructure and make South Carolina more competitive while also improving safety and our quality of life,” said Senator DeMint. “Bob worked hard to make Fourth District needs a priority in Washington, and his efforts should be commended. I also want to personally thank Lindsey for his leadership and help to ensure South Carolina was treated fairly throughout this process.” Notable Funding for Fourth District Projects: West Georgia Rd, Greenville- $3,600,000 ICAR roads, Greenville- $6,800,000 Greenville Multimodal Center, Greenville- $1,000,000 Brockman-McClimon Interchange, Spartanburg- $800,000 SC 9, Spartanburg- $6,800,000 Hub City Connector, Spartanburg- $800,000 ####
07.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Congressman Henry Brown (R-S.C.) joined U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-S.C) and Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) in announcing over $125 million in the House-Senate highway conference report to fund road projects in the First Congressional District of South Carolina. The surface transportation bill provides $286.4 billion in federal highway contract authority between 2004 and 2009, and is expected to pass the Senate and the House later this week. President Bush is expected to sign the legislation soon after. "As we complete the highway authorization bill, I feel that we have crafted legislation that both enhances the Nation's highway infrastructure and also significantly benefits the First District," said Congressman Henry Brown. "Jim and Lindsey helped form a powerful team in the Senate, and I am deeply appreciative of their assistance and of their leadership. Not only have we been able to secure a higher rate of return at 92% by 2008, but we have guaranteed that South Carolina's most critical highway project, I-73, has every opportunity to be accomplished. I-73 will provide much needed congestion relief and economic development that will allow the Grand Strand region to continue its strong growth. I would also like to thank John Spratt for his contribution of $8 million to I-73." “The highway bill is very good news for motorists in South Carolina,” said Senator Graham. “As a state, we were able to secure a more equitable funding formula which will put additional dollars toward our road system. It truly moves the ball forward in our efforts to build new roads while maintaining and improving the ones we currently have. I truly appreciate the work done by Jim and Henry on the highway bill. They’ve been leaders in this area and we all owe them a debt of gratitude for what they’ve been able to accomplish. Making sure our state was treated in a fair and equitable manner was a team effort, but these two guys served as team captains and deserve a great deal of credit for what our state was able to accomplish.” “The funding for these projects will improve our infrastructure and make South Carolina more competitive while also improving safety and our quality of life,” said Senator DeMint. “It was great to work with Henry on the conference committee. He worked tirelessly to make sure our priorities were addressed, and his efforts should be applauded. We are especially excited about I-73, and we will continue to work for its completion. I also want to personally thank Lindsey for his leadership and help to ensure South Carolina was treated fairly throughout this process.” Overall, the Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users (TEA-LU) will authorize $2.9 billion to South Carolina’s highway, highway safety and transit programs. This is a total increase of nearly 28 percent over TEA-21. In addition to formula monies, several specific projects in the First District will receive significant funding, as described in the attached list. Most notable of these items is I-73, which has been earmarked $81 million. I-73 is also designated as a Project of Regional and National Significance, which qualifies the highway for significant future funding from the federal government. Notable Funding for 1st District Projects: North Rhett Boulevard, Berkeley- $5,600,000 Railroad Avenue Extension, Berkeley- $1,600,000 Port Access Road, Charleston- $10,000,000 Demolition of Old Cooper River Bridges, Charleston- $5,000,000 MUSC Roadway Enhancements, Charleston- $3,200,000 US 17/Bowman Road Interchange, Charleston- $4,800,000 Extension of the Mark Clark Expressway, Charleston- $3,000,000 Berlin Myers Interchange, Charleston- $6,400,000 Construction of I-73, Horry- $81,000,000 Carolina Bays Parkway, Horry- $2,400,000 701 Connector, Horry- $4,000,000 ####
07.27.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Senate passed the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Act and the Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area Study Act. Both measures were included as part of a larger bill that included other heritage and interior-related legislation. The purpose of the Gullah/Geechee heritage corridor is to: Recognize the important contributions made to American culture and history by African-Americans known as the Gullah/Geechee who settled in the coastal counties of South Carolina and Georgia. Assist state and local governments and public and private entities in South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia and Florida in interpreting the story of the Gullah/Geechee and preserving Gullah/Geechee folklore, arts, crafts, and music. Assist in identifying and preserving sites, historical data, artifacts, and objects associated with the Gullah/Geechee for the benefit and education of the public. “I would like to thank my colleagues in the Senate for coming together to assist us in preserving a piece of South Carolina’s heritage,” said Graham. “It’s important we recognize the contributions of these South Carolinians and pass along their story to future generations.” “I would also like to thank my colleague Jim Clyburn for his efforts in pushing this forward,” said Graham. “He has been a tireless champion of the bill in the House and it is my hope that we will soon see this become a reality.” Graham noted that in addition to the Gullah/Geechee Heritage Corridor Act the bill also contained the Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area Study Act. The bill directs the Secretary of the Interior to study and report on the suitability and feasibility of designating specified South Carolina counties, cities, and public sites as the Southern Campaign of the Revolution Heritage Area. South Carolina has over 200 Revolutionary War sites, more than any other state, and is currently celebrating the 225th Anniversary of most of these battlegrounds. Although the Southern Campaign is considered by many the turning point of the Revolution, no heritage corridor currently exists to commemorate the Southern Campaign. The bill must now be passed by the House of Representatives and then signed into law by President Bush. ####
07.26.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today met with Supreme Court nominee John Roberts in Washington. Graham is a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. He made this statement following the meeting. “Judge Roberts is an extremely bright and capable individual with an impeccable legal background. I very much enjoyed meeting with him. “It’s my hope the Senate will treat him in a fair and professional manner during the confirmation process. Early indications are that we will and I certainly hope that trend continues. “I do expect Judge Roberts will be aggressively questioned in the Judiciary Committee, but I do not expect him to say how he would vote on any particular case. Questions asking the nominee to do this in advance of hearing a case should be out-of-bounds. The same goes for requests for documents protected under attorney-client privilege. “It’s also improper to use a client’s position against the nominee. Lawyers give legal advice to those they represent and it’s not fair to judge them by the actions and thoughts of their clients. “I hope the hearings do not become a referendum on any single issue. The purpose of the hearing is to give members of the Senate an opportunity to examine the nominee’s qualifications and background. It’s not an opportunity to get them to say how they would rule on cases that may come before the Supreme Court in future years.” ####
07.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was joined today by former U.S. Senator Ernest F. ‘Fritz’ Hollings and representatives from the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) to discuss the importance of making the Hollings Cancer Center a National Cancer Institute (NCI) designated cancer center. “Cancer is one of the leading causes of death in the nation,” said Graham. “Practically every South Carolina family has been impacted by this horrible disease. Like Senator Hollings, I want to do all humanly possible to conquer cancer. South Carolina is aggressively confronting its many health care problems and MUSC is on the front line of this battle.” “It’s my goal to take the Hollings Cancer Center to the next level by achieving a National Cancer Institute designation,” said Graham. “This designation would put the Center in an elite group of institutions. With an NCI designation, the Hollings Cancer Center would rightfully hold a place in the major leagues of cancer research.” An NCI designation is the highest recognition a cancer center can receive. It acknowledges the center has met the highest standards for patient care, prevention and control, research, and education in the field of cancer. This designation would increase the resources available to Hollings Cancer Center to conduct research and prevention programs. It will also increase the state’s access for clinical trials for newly developed drugs to fight cancer. “To reach this goal we must work together as a Congressional delegation and in concert with state and local officials, along with the private sector,” said Graham. “With Senator Hollings and the steady leadership of Dr. Greenberg and Dr. Kraft, I believe we can achieve this prestigious designation.” Graham has secured $8 million for the Hollings Cancer Center in the Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations Bill. The funding will go towards the construction of a new research facility dedicated to the role genetics plays in the development of cancer. It will also help in the long-term efforts to turn the Center into an NCI designated cancer center. Cancer is the second leading cause of death in South Carolina, claiming the lives of nearly 8,000 citizens each year. More than 17,000 new cancer cases are diagnosed in South Carolina annually. One in two males and one in three females will develop cancer at some time in their lives. “The Hollings Cancer Center is a national leader in treatment and research,” said Graham. “With focused commitment and persistence an NCI designation is achievable over time. There would be no better way to honor Senator Hollings than to achieve this goal.” ####
07.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) is scheduled to offer an amendment to the defense authorization bill strengthening the legal hand of the Bush Administration and future Administrations to hold enemy combatants at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba (Gitmo). “It is imperative we have procedures in place at Gitmo that will keep terrorists off the battlefield as long as necessary to protect our nation,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. “My amendment seeks to achieve that goal.” “Without congressional authority we run a real risk a federal court will either take over or impede our efforts at Gitmo,” said Graham “We are winning in some courts and losing in others. It is now time to strengthen Gitmo so it can meet our national defense needs.” Graham noted that by Congress acting through statute, the likelihood of keeping properly designated enemy combatants off the battlefield for an undetermined amount of time is enhanced and will strengthen Gitmo’s legal position in federal court. “The president has established procedures to determine who is an enemy combatant and to annually review their status,” said Graham. “It’s now time for Congress to sign-off on these procedures and turn them into a statute, a move the courts will give great deference to.” The major provisions of the Graham amendment include: The Combatant Status Review Tribunal (CSRT), established by the president, would become statutory law. The tribunal determines the status of whether a detainee is an unlawful enemy combatant. The Annual Review Board (ARB), also established by the president, would become statutory law. The ARB reviews the combatant’s status on an annual basis to determine if the individual is an enemy combatant, still holds intelligence value and/or, still presents a threat to the United States. Graham modifies current procedure by allowing an enemy combatant to have a military lawyer present when appearing before the ARB. They currently have a military representative present. The president is also given flexibility to update CSRT and ARB procedures by giving Congress 30 days notice. “My goal is to legitimize the actions our nation is taking at Gitmo and keep enemy combatants off the battlefield as long as possible,” said Graham. “Congress can and needs to act to legitimize the long-term detention of enemy combatants at Gitmo. The War on Terror will go on long after this Administration and we need to have congressional buy-in into this matter.” “By getting Congress to put some of these things into law, it will strengthen the Commander in Chief’s hand in the War on Terror,” said Graham. “We can also clear up any legal confusion that currently exists and can show the courts the Executive and Legislative branches have acted together which will tremendously strengthen the legal position of Gitmo, President Bush, and all future Commanders in Chief.” #####
07.21.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) today hailed unanimous Senate passage of his measure to expand access to healthcare benefits for members of the National Guard and Reserve. The initiative, which has gained widespread support in the Senate, cuts across party and ideological lines as it has drawn support from Republicans, Democrats, liberals and conservatives. The Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, John Warner (R-VA), also expressed strong support for the legislation on the floor of the Senate. The expansion, which passed as an amendment to the Department of Defense Authorization bill, extends TRICARE to all drilling members of the Guard and Reserve regardless of whether they are on active duty or not. Reservists would be required to pay modest monthly premiums. Graham has worked with U.S. Senator Hillary Clinton (D-NY), Norm Coleman (R-MN), George Allen (R-VA) and others to expand access to TRICARE benefits for Guard and Reserve members and their families. In October 2004, Senator Graham sponsored legislation that was part of the approved Department of Defense Authorization bill, which provided an extension of one additional year of TRICARE eligibility to Guard and Reserve members for every 90 days the Reservist or Guardsman serves. This expanded eligibility program went into effect in April 2005. The amendment passed today further expands eligibility by lifting the 90 day cap and allowing any drilling reservists to buy into TRICARE at any time. “Guardsmen and Reservists are the only part-time federal employees who are currently ineligible for federal government full-time health care benefits,” said Graham, a Colonel in the U.S. Air Force Reserves. “We’re going to continue pushing for a better benefit package for our citizen-soldiers. “The National Guard and Reserves are playing a vital role in Iraqi and Afghanistan and are an integral part of the war on terrorism,” said Graham. “Our proposal will also help in our lagging recruiting and retention efforts.” The TRICARE efforts have gained support from many groups including the National Guard Association of the United States, the Reserve Officers Association, and the National Governors Association. The legislation now goes to a House-Senate conference for consideration. ####
07.21.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statements on the announcement the Chinese have begun to revalue their currency. Graham, along with Senator Chuck Schumer (D-NY), have been leaders in pushing the Chinese to discontinue pegging their currency to the U.S. dollar at a rate of 8.28 yuan arguing it hurts American manufacturing. “I’m pleased with the Chinese government’s decision to revalue the yuan,” said Graham. “While the initial revaluation was small, it is encouraging. They’ve taken a small first step which I hope over time will turn into more revaluations and the eventual floating of the Chinese currency.” China set the value of the yuan at a level equal to 8.11 yuan to the dollar, an increase of about 2 percent. The Chinese also set up a mechanism to allow the yuan to fluctuate in value by as much as 0.3 percent per day. This mechanism allows the yuan to potentially increase gradually over time. The Chinese government will continue to manage the exchange rate. “The most significant aspect of the announcement is it allows the Chinese to have a daily upward valuation of their currency,” said Graham. “This mechanism is the best indication they don’t view today’s two percent adjustment as the end of the road, but the beginning of a series of adjustments over time. It creates a process for continued upward adjustment to bring the Chinese currency in-line with its true value.” The issue was brought to a head when Graham and Schumer offered their legislation calling for a 27.5 percent tariff on all Chinese goods entering the country as an amendment to the Foreign Affairs Authorization Act. A procedural motion to table the amendment was brought forward and soundly defeated in a bipartisan 67-33 vote. A majority of Republicans and Democrats opposed the tabling measure. “In light of China’s decision, Malaysia has decided to begin revaluing their currency as well,” said Graham. “A revaluation of China and other Asian currencies will greatly benefit American manufacturers in the global economy. China is too strong of an economy to continue manipulating its currency to create a discount on its products. It’s been unfair to American manufacturing and put us at a competitive disadvantage.” “By beginning to move away from pegging their currency, China will create a better climate for doing business,” said Graham. “Over time, it can become a win for both countries. That’s the goal Senator Schumer and I have hoped to achieve with our actions on this issue.” Last month, after meeting with Treasury Secretary John Snow and Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan, Graham and Schumer agreed to postpone a pending July vote on their tariff legislation. Graham said he was convinced progress was being made on this issue and in light of this progress, it was appropriate to show flexibility. “I’m appreciative of the attention the administration has placed on this issue,” said Graham. “I look forward to working with Secretary Snow and Chairman Greenspan to encourage China to continue to move to an eventual float of their currency.” #####
07.19.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased U.S. and Russian negotiators had come to preliminary agreement on liability provisions which have slowed construction of the mixed oxide fuel (MOX) facility at the Savannah River Site (SRS). MOX is the process where weapons-grade plutonium is converted into fuel for use in commercial reactors to produce electricity. “The preliminary agreement is very good news for the Savannah River Site, South Carolina, and the nation as it helps move our construction efforts forward,” said Graham. “I look forward to a formal agreement being reached in the coming weeks. MOX is a tremendous program and one that will pay dividends for years to come.” Construction efforts at SRS have slowed as the liability provisions were negotiated. The liability provisions deal with American workers helping construct the Russian facility in Siberia. “I recently spoke with Secretary Rice and told her I appreciate her hard work in addressing this issue,” said Graham. “MOX is a very important piece of our efforts to stop nuclear proliferation as it turns nuclear swords into plowshares.” “To a terrorist like Osama Bin Laden, weapons-grade plutonium is more valuable than gold,” said Graham. “Under MOX, we’ll be able to take this material off the market and turn it into fuel to produce electricity in a commercial nuclear power plant.” The agreement on liability requires a Russian presidential decree and then a formal signing of the pact by the two countries. The Russian Duma will then ratify the agreement. #####
07.19.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the nomination of Judge John Roberts to the Supreme Court. Graham said: "With the nomination of Judge John Roberts, the American people are getting an extremely qualified nominee with impeccable legal credentials. He also happens to be a very decent and honorable man. In a single word, John Roberts is 'solid.' "Judge Roberts is a solid conservative who understands the role of a judge is to interpret the law and not legislate from the bench. He is a truly an oustanding choice the entire country can be proud of as he is one of the best legal minds of his generation. "Judge Roberts represents a new generation of Associate Justices for the Supreme Court. I expect him to be fairly and decently treated by the Senate. Based on his qualifications, temperment and character he will be confirmed by an up-or-down vote. "Judge Roberts also holds the unique distinction of being confirmed for his current position on the D.C. Court of Appeals, the nation's second-highest court, by unanimous consent. This has rarely occured and is the best indication about how the Senate feels about John Roberts. "In 2003, as a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee I strongly supported John Robert's nomination to the D.C. Court of Appeals. Over the past two years, I've heard nothing to change my opinion about Judge Roberts." ####
07.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the bombings in London. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to the people of London who have been affected by this attack. “The contrast, described by President Bush between the terrorists who indiscriminately kill and the leaders of the G-8 trying to solve world problems, was right-on. It also presents the best description of our terrorist enemies as being ruthless and having no regard for human life. They must be dealt with by aggressive action and a strong will. #####
07.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Richland School District Two will receive a $1,599,935 Smaller Learning Communities (SLC) Grant. The SLC program is designed to promote academic achievement through small, safe, and successful learning environments in large high schools. The funds will be used to develop smaller learning communities at Ridge View High School and Blythewood High School. Smaller learning communities are intended to personalize the environment and ensure student success by implementing the District’s Communities of Learners Accelerate Student Success (CLASS) program. CLASS places emphasis on relationships, rigor and relevancy. Last month, Graham announced Richland School District One would receive a $2.5 million SLC Grant to be used at Dreher and Lower Richland High Schools. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
07.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Lowcountry Area Health Education Center in Varnville and the Medical University of South Carolina will receive a $358,396 grant to support the South Carolina Rural Interdisciplinary Program of Training (SCRIPT). SCRIPT trains health care professionals to function within interdisciplinary teams to deliver care or conduct research in rural communities. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
07.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Florence School District One will receive a $3,999,935 Smaller Learning Communities (SLC) Grant. The SLC program is designed to promote academic achievement through small, safe, and successful learning environments in large high schools. The funds will be used at five high schools in Florence and Darlington including: Darlington, Hartsville, South Florence, West Florence and Wilson. The funds will be used to create highly personalized school-within-a-school environments in each high school. The program, known as STARS (Small Teams Achieving Results for Students), will use instructional strategies, services, and interventions to boost overall academic performance and narrow the achievement gap in student subgroups. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
07.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will receive more than $9 million for projects along South Carolina’s coast. The funds include: Berkeley County $100,000 for an assessment study of the Cooper River. Charleston $2.9 million for operations and maintenance at the Cooper River. $100,000 for a feasibility study on storm drainage reduction on Edisto Island. Georgetown County $2.6 million for the planning, design and construction of a protective sand berm on Pawleys Island. $100,000 for environmental restoration at the Santee Delta. Horry County $100,000 for beach renourishment at Myrtle Beach. $50,000 for a Waccamaw River watershed modeling project. $50,000 for a storm water drainage study at Surfside Beach. Statewide $3 million for maintenance of the Intracoastal Waterway in South Carolina. “I am pleased our colleagues have recognized the importance of these projects to South Carolina,” said Graham. “The funds will help maintain critical parts of our state’s energy infrastructure and preserve our valuable natural resources for the enjoyment of future generations.” "These projects will help ensure commerce will continue to thrive on South Carolina's waterways,” said DeMint. “I'm please that the entire state will benefit by the protection of our state's natural resources." The Senator’s secured the funds in the Fiscal Year 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations Bill. The bill passed the Senate in a 92-3 vote. The measure will now be referred to a House-Senate Conference Committee. ####
07.05.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Western Carolina Higher Education Commission-Salkehatchie Leadership Institute in Allendale will receive $228,098 in grants. The grants will be used to develop an inventory of artisans and craftspeople in the newly-formed Southern Carolina Regional Economic Development Alliance. The project is expected to create 30 jobs and assist 15 businesses. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
07.05.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Army Corps of Engineers will receive more than $16 million for dredging projects in the Charleston and Georgetown areas. The funds include: $11,038,000 for dredging in Charleston Harbor. $4,000,000 for dredging in Georgetown Harbor ($1.5 million for the entrance channel and $3.5 million for Sampit River and Upper Winyah Bay.) $987,000 for dredging in the Folly River $459,000 for dredging in Town Creek “South Carolina’s waterways and harbors are critical to our economy,” said Graham. “They are the backbone of commercial transportation and tourism in South Carolina. We need to ensure they are properly maintained and protected.” “This funding will ensure that South Carolina’s ports can continue to serve as the gateway to the world for America’s exports,” said DeMint. “Our state's economic growth depends on maintaining the Charleston Harbor and our natural assets.” The Senators secured the funds in the 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. The legislation passed the Senate last night by a 92-3 vote. The measure will now be referred to a House-Senate Conference Committee. The Senators also noted they had secured $3 million dollars in the same bill for the maintenance of the Intracoastal Waterway in South Carolina. ####
07.05.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced the Beech Island Historical Society will receive a $200,000 grant to rehabilitate a turn-of-the-century brick cottonseed barn for use as an agricultural museum. The museum is a recognized site on the Region III South Carolina National Heritage Corridor for Aiken County. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
07.05.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Williamsburg Enterprise Community Commission will receive a $190,000 grant to provide business counseling, technical assistance, revolving loan funds, skills development and business support services to small and emerging businesses in the community. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
07.01.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the retirement of Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O’Connor. Graham said: “I would like to add my name to the long list of Americans who admire Justice O’Connor. The way she conducted herself throughout public life has been an example to us all. In her professional life, she broke glass ceilings in the area of women and the law. Her keen intellect and great legal skills are matched by her kindness and decency. “Justice O’Connor will go down in history as one of the more influential justices to have ever served on the Supreme Court. She will be missed and all Americans should be grateful for her service.” ####
06.30.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the Army Corps of Engineers will receive $2,234,000 to help preserve and protect the Morris Island Lighthouse. The funds will allow the Corps to enter into a contract and begin undertaking efforts to stabilize the structure. Without repair, the lighthouse is destined to fall into the sea. “For over a century, the lighthouse has served as the front door to Charleston Harbor,” said Graham. “The lighthouse has a grand legacy of protecting ships coming in from the Atlantic. Now, it’s time for us to protect this historical landmark and preserve an important piece of our history.” “The Morris Island Lighthouse is a landmark of the Charleston harbor and a vital part of South Carolina’s heritage. The lighthouse should be restored and protected and I’m glad we’re taking steps to do so,” said DeMint. Earlier this year, the state of South Carolina committed an additional $500,000 to stabilization efforts at the lighthouse. This brings the state share to $1 million. The Senators secured the funds in the 2006 Energy and Water Appropriations bill. The legislation passed the Senate Appropriations Committee by a 28-0 vote and should be taken up by the full Senate in the next few weeks. Following Senate passage the measure will be referred to a House-Senate Conference Committee. ####
06.30.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement after meeting with Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan, Treasury Secretary John Snow, and U.S. Senator Chuck Schumer (D-New York.) Graham said: “Senator Schumer and I strongly believe the vote this spring by 67 Senators refusing to table the Schumer-Graham amendment seeking reform of the Chinese currency was a constructive signal from the Senate. It demonstrated the urgency and seriousness of Congress toward the China currency problem and is helping generate momentum in our efforts to bring about currency reform. “The currency issue is one of the most important problems facing the global economy and directly affects U.S. manufacturing. There’s no doubt the current Chinese policy of pegging the yuan to the dollar creates an unfair discount for their products over American goods. Significant revaluation of the yuan would send a positive signal about the role China seeks to play in the global economy. “After discussions with Secretary Snow and Chairman Greenspan, I’m convinced progress is being made on this issue. In light of this progress, I believe it is appropriate for us to show flexibility in giving this new engagement between China and the United States a chance to mature and develop. Therefore, Senator Schumer and I have agreed to postpone the impending July vote on our legislation. We’re hopeful this will allow Secretary Snow to continue to make progress. “However, if progress on Chinese revaluation stalls, Senator Schumer and I retain the right to call for a Senate vote before the end of the First Session of the 109th Congress. The Senate Republican and Democratic leadership have agreed to this change. “I agree with Chairman Greenspan that a revaluation of the yuan would be beneficial to both countries. I also appreciate Secretary Snow’s hard work on this issue and the involvement of President Bush. I remain hopeful there will be a positive outcome for both the U.S. and China in this endeavor. Much is at stake and I’m hopeful we can get a result that is a win for both nations. “The benefits to the United States and world economy by moving toward a floating Chinese currency cannot be underestimated. While revaluation alone will not substantially change the trade deficit or improve manufacturing competitiveness, it will help create a ripple affect throughout Asia as other nations keep pace in revaluing their currencies. Over time, this combined effect will be tremendously beneficial to American manufacturing as Chinese movement on currency revaluation should be followed by their Asian neighbors. “The more Asian nations come in-line with international monetary policy, the better the likelihood American manufacturing can compete throughout the world.” Note: The First Session of the 109th Congress is scheduled to end October 2005. ####
06.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) in Charleston will receive $8 million for the construction of a new research facility at the Hollings Cancer Center. “The MUSC Hollings Cancer Center is a leader in cancer research,” said Graham. “The work they do is on the cutting edge of cancer prevention, detection, and treatment. The new research facility will allow the Center to better serve our state and help many of our citizens battling cancer.” Graham secured the funding in the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill which has already been approved by the Senate Appropriations Committee. The legislation is scheduled to come before the full Senate in the next few weeks. “We at the Medical University of South Carolina thank Senator Graham for his interest in and support of cancer research,” said Dr. Ray Greenberg, President of the Medical University of South Carolina. “These funds will be dedicated toward the construction of a building that will house research on the causes of cancer, with a special focus on genetic risk factors. Former Senator Hollings helped the Medical University establish a cancer center, and now Senator Graham is continuing to advance the effort to build a center of excellence that will serve all the citizens of the State and play a leadership role nationally.” The new research facility is a key part of MUSC’s goal of being designated a National Cancer Institute by the National Institute of Health. This designation would increase the resources available to the Hollings Cancer Center to conduct research and prevention programs in South Carolina. It would also increase the state’s access to clinical trials for newly developed cancer fighting drugs. Cancer is the second leading cause of death in South Carolina, claiming the lives of nearly 8,000 citizens each year. More than 17,000 new cancer cases are diagnosed in South Carolina annually, and one in two males and one in three females will develop cancer at some time in their lives. ####
06.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Coastal Initiative will receive $3 million in federal funds. Graham secured the funds in the Fiscal Year 2006 Commerce, Justice, and Science Appropriations bill. “South Carolina’s coastline is one of our most valuable resources,” said Graham. “We need to take steps toward preserving the natural beauty and cultural heritage of the coastal community.” The funds will go towards the acquisition of Palmetto Bluff, a 770-acre tract located on the New River in Beaufort County. The property is a part of the Palmetto Bluff Planned Unit Development (PUD) and consists of approximately 220 acres of prime development land as well as pristine wetlands and old historic rice fields. The South Carolina Coastal Initiative is comprised of projects to preserve the natural, cultural, and historic resources of the South Carolina coast. Funds will be matched by state, local and private contributions. “Preserving Palmetto Bluff is one of our highest priorities,” said Beaufort County Councilman Skeet Von Harten, Chairman of the Land Management Committee. “We are grateful to Senator Graham for his leadership in securing federal funding for this important coastal resource. Notwithstanding the numerous successes that we've had with the Critical Lands Program since the Trust for Public Land came on board, there are still some very critical needs that have to be met in Beaufort County. This federal funding will help us meet those needs.” “With the help of our public partners and the vision of our community leaders in Beaufort County, we're beginning to see some spectacular results on the ground,” said Slade Gleaton, Trust for Public Land’s Project Manger. “We are ecstatic that this important federal funding is a step closer to reality. Thanks to Senator Graham for his leadership efforts which will go a long way toward protecting South Carolina’s natural and historic resources and putting Beaufort County's vision for a rich future within reach.” The legislation has passed the Senate Appropriations Committee and should be taken up by the full Senate in the next few weeks. ####
06.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – Today, Georgia and South Carolina lawmakers praised the Department of Energy (DOE) for agreeing to provide $4.3 million for the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory in Aiken, SC in fiscal year 2006. The announcement is part of a joint year-long effort to secure funding for the laboratory. Senators Saxby Chambliss, R-Ga., Johnny Isaskon, R-Ga., Lindsey Graham, R-SC and Jim DeMint, R-SC, along with Reps. Jack Kingston, R-Ga., Charlie Norwood, R-Ga., and Gresham Barrett, R-SC, launched the effort earlier this year upon learning the White House budget did not include funds for the laboratory. The lawmakers credit U.S. Department of Energy Secretary Samuel Bodman for listening to their concerns and working with the Georgia and South Carolina delegation to invest funding in the laboratory’s critical work. “In numerous meetings, phone calls and letters we jointly impressed upon Secretary Bodman the importance of this project to our nation,” said Chambliss. “The Savannah River Ecology Laboratory has been operated by the University of Georgia for over 54 years and has been widely recognized for its research, education and pubic outreach programs. I am thankful Secretary Bodman and his staff worked with us to address the laboratory’s important funding needs.” “I am very pleased Secretary Bodman has been so willing to work with us over the past several months to ensure that the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory and the University of Georgia can continue their critical research at Savannah River Site. Our Georgia and South Carolina delegations made a very strong case as to why SREL deserves to continue to receive funding from the Department of Energy and we appreciate Secretary Bodman’s willingness to take this action,” Isakson said. “The SREL has helped track the effects on the environment from our Cold War missions,” said Graham. “The data they collect provides a public health service and the funding level we achieved in the Senate is an important step toward the lab’s continued operation. I’m pleased we were able to work with our friends from Georgia to secure funding this year.” “I’m glad the Department of Energy worked with us to find a thoughtful solution to address the needs of the lab,” said Senator DeMint. “The Savannah River Ecology Lab’s independent analysis is crucial to understanding the environmental impact of work done at the Savannah River site. This decision will sustain the lab and its important work.” "This is good news," Congressman Kingston said. "Keeping funding flowing for the ecological research being done at the lab is very important. I know Dr. Bertsch is pleased and I am glad Secretary Bodman and the Energy Department worked with us to keep this going." "We have worked hard to impress upon the Department of Energy the importance of SREL's mission to the nation. While I am disappointed that full funding was not restored through the contract year, I am pleased that Secretary Bodman worked with us to provide enough funding for SREL to remain operational," said Barrett. "We remain committed to working together for the future of the lab." "While it remains a disappointment that we were unable to convince DOE to restore full funding, we have still come away with a clear victory for maintaining SREL until new, permanent funding sources can be found," says Norwood. "The work done by SREL is too vital for the nation's environmental research efforts to ever let this facility go dark." Situated on the grounds of Savannah River Site (SRS), the SREL provides an independent evaluation of the ecological effects of DOE's SRS operations through a program of ecological research, education, and outreach which involves basic and applied environmental research, with emphasis upon expanding the understanding of ecological processes and principles, and upon evaluating the impacts of industrial and land use activities on the environment. ###
06.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of the Energy bill which passed through the chamber on an overwhelming 85-12 vote. The legislation has been a top priority for President Bush since he took office in 2001. “Passage of the energy bill through the Senate is a major step forward for the nation in helping make us energy independent,” said Graham. “It contains provisions encouraging additional hydrogen research and the construction of new nuclear energy facilities. It meets the major objectives of producing and conserving more energy, diversifying our energy supply, and employing the latest technology to deliver energy. ” Graham noted the Senate legislation contained over $3.5 billion in funding over the next 5 years for hydrogen research. The language in the Senate bill was largely based upon language authored by Graham and introduced in the Senate earlier this year. “What Detroit was to the automotive industry, South Carolina can be to hydrogen,” said Graham. “We’ve got research initiatives going on across the state and we’re on the ground floor in cutting-edge hydrogen research. The legislation will benefit our state by helping push further in hydrogen research.” “The legislation also strengthens our nuclear energy sector,” said Graham. “Nuclear energy is a clean source of power and one we need to utilize more in the coming years. It truly is a shame that we have not licensed a new nuclear facility in the United States in three decades. “Unfortunately, changes in energy policy will not mean people at the pump will see an immediate decrease in their fuel prices,” said Graham. “Like President Bush has said, ‘I wish I could just wave a wand and lower the price at the pump.’ It’s taken a while for us to get into this situation and it will take a while to begin working our way out. Today’s vote was a big step in the right direction. I look forward to considering the final version of the legislation when it emerges from the House-Senate conference.” #####
06.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON-- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement: "I believe President Bush made a very persuasive and much-needed case the war in Iraq is indeed part of the global War on Terror. I, too, believe the outcome in Iraq directy affects our national security. "President Bush reminded us, in graphic terms, about the nature of our ruthless enemy whose biggest fear is an emerging democracy in the Middle East. He identified the goal of the terrorists as being that of killing an idea called democracy. And he's correct when he notes the terrorists show no mercy for anyone -- man, woman, or child -- that embraces democracy. "We must give the Iraqi people the chance to achieve the capacity to defend their own freedom and create a new political landscape in the Middle East. "The President is absolutely right to argue a successful outcome in Iraq helps ensure our freedom and security for years to come. In addition, I agree with him that we should not establish an artificial time frame for withdrawal of American troops as it would be counter-productice to our efforts." ####
06.27.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement regarding the Supreme Court decisions on the Ten Commandments. Graham said: “I look forward to reviewing the Court’s decision as they came away with very different conclusions about the Kentucky and Texas cases. “Religion plays a fundamental role in our country. The idea that religion does not have a place in our public institutions has not been the history of our nation. The first people who came to America came for religious freedom. Their goal was to make sure you could worship God on your terms and the government would not take sides. “Displaying the Ten Commandments is just part of our history. Our Founding Fathers openly embraced God in their debate when writing the Constitution. Most of our laws are based on Judeo-Christian principles. So a public display of the Ten Commandments, in my opinion, is not the establishment of a religion. “The Ten Commandments are on the Supreme Court building. As the presiding officer of the Senate, right behind us it says ‘In God We Trust.’ ‘Under God’ is part of our pledge. The idea that God should be driven out of the public square is dangerous for the country.” #####
06.24.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Aiken will receive a $243,337 Community Development Block Grant (CDBG). The CDBG program develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
06.24.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Columbia and Lexington County will receive more than $4.6 million in housing grants. The City of Columbia will receive a $1.47 million Community Development Block Grant, $1.16 million for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program, and $887,000 for the HOME Investment Partnership Program. Lexington County will receive a $1.12 Community Development Block Grant. The Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. The Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program addresses the housing needs of persons diagnosed with AIDS. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
06.24.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Spartanburg and Spartanburg County will receive more than $3.2 million in housing grants. The City of Spartanburg will receive an $875,000 Community Development Block Grant, and $349,000 for the HOME Investment Partnership Program. Spartanburg County will receive a $1.4 million Community Development Block Grant, $564,500 for the HOME Investment Partnership Program, and $19,900 for the American Dream Down Payment Initiative. The Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. The American Dream Down Payment Initiative promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to lower-income and minority households. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
06.23.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (*64-250-1417) U.S. SENATOR LINDSEY GRAHAM: Just recently here in the Senate we've had a lot of time absorbed about what one member said that was, I thought, way out of bounds. That member apologized. That was good. There was a time when no one seemed to want to correct that statement. And some of the things that Senator Clinton said are really not helpful. We talk about losing the war and what it would mean. The only way, gentlemen, I see that we could possibly lose in Iraq is to leave the country in shambles, not prepared, not capable of defending itself and taking care of this new democracy; that if we left too soon, before they had a chance to get a functioning army and a functioning police force and to create honest judges and to have the rule of law, that we would put the whole world at risk. So to anyone, Republican or Democrat, who thinks that a timetable is the answer, I could not disagree more. How hard is it to create a country where everybody buys in? It's pretty hard. In 100 and something years, do the math, less than 100 years, we were in a civil war, started in my state. This is hard. How long does it take to get over a 1,400-year religious dispute? Probably a little longer between now and December. We have bought into a model that is extremely difficult, but the only answer, because you can't kill enough of these people. The model is to leave in Iraq the chance for them to govern themselves where moderation trumps terrorism, where mothers have a say about their children, where you can go to court based on what you did, not who you are. That is a very big challenge, and the only answer. So losing is leaving before the job is done. What would make us leave? The last time an American lost on the battlefield was when the Confederacy was defeated. We will not lose a battle. It is not a military problem in terms of losing. We will lose this war if we leave too soon. And what is likely to make us do that? The public going south. And that is happening. And that worries me greatly. So, Mr. Secretary, you've described the dynamic in 1946 I think very accurately. There was a lot of concern about reconstructing Europe after World War II. I see this engagement in Iraq very similar to a World War II endeavor, not Vietnam. This is not about trying to take sides in a dispute between a country. This is about taking sides between dispute between freedom-loving people and terrorists. Whether we should have been there or not is no longer the question. We're there. And the people who want us to leave are the same people who tried to kill us on September 11th. It is a World War II event, but the public views this every day, Mr. Secretary, more and more like Vietnam. Thirty-nine percent in the last poll support the idea that we should be there. What do you think is going on, and how can we correct that? SECRETARY OF DEFENSE RUMSFELD: Senator, the members of this committee and everyone in this room and listening know the answer to that question as well as I do, and possibly better. Our system says that we place all our faith, all our hope in the people of the country, and that given sufficient information over time they'll find their way to right decisions. And I believe that. I've watched polls go from zero to 55 percent, back down to 15 percent in six weeks. And anyone who starts chasing polls is going to get seasick. GRAHAM : Do you believe this is an acute problem or a chronic problem, with the public support waning? RUMSFELD: An acute or a what? GRAHAM : Chronic problem. Because in the last year, sir, the public support in my state has turned, and I worry about that, because that's the only way we'll ever leave before we should, is if the public loses faith in us. And I'm here to tell you, sir, in the most patriotic state I can imagine, people are beginning to question. And I don't think it's a blip on the radar screen. I think we have a chronic problem on our hands. And if you disagree, I certainly respect that. RUMSFELD: Well, that's the time that leadership has to stand up and tell the truth. And if you're facing a head wind, you got two choices, you can turn around and go downwind or you can stand there and go into the wind, and that's what needs to be done. And we've got leadership in this country that are capable of doing that, let there be no doubt. And I think the American people have a good center of gravity. I think they have -- individually they have inner gyroscopes that may tilt from time to time, but they get recentered, and that they, given appropriate leadership and given continued success on the political and the security side in that country, I am absolutely convinced that we'll have the willpower and the staying power and the courage to do what's right there. The alternative is to turn that region back to darkness, to people who behead people. And that is not a happy prospect. GRAHAM: I could not agree more. One last thought. I have to go. General Abizaid, based on the military situation as you know it, what is the likelihood of the insurgents and the terrorists combined launching a Tet-type offensive where there are coordinated attacks throughout the country that would result in substantial of American or coalition lives? Because if that did happen, I really worry about the response in this country. GRAHAM: How likely is that? And what can we do to prevent it? GENERAL ABIZAID: Senator, I can tell you, and George will undoubtedly talk about this for Iraq in particular, but there is always a likelihood of a surprise militarily. There is always an opportunity for the enemy to figure out a way to inflict casualties, to grab the headlines. The challenge for us is to stay tough enough when that happens to see ourself through it. We can't be defeated by the headlines. We can't be defeated by this enemy. No doubt that they can do us damage. In Afghanistan right now, in particular, we're getting ready to go to an election in September. The enemy is coming as hard as they can. They have issued orders to everybody that they can get their hands on to try to disrupt this election, because they are so afraid of the election. But the violence won't win. JOHN WARNER: Thank you very much, Senator. CASEY: I'm sorry, Senator. If I could add to that... WARNER: Yes, General Casey, you may reply. CASEY: Senator, I'd just respond to that last question about Tet, I believe we have greatly reduced the potential of the capability for that to happen. And as I've listened here this afternoon, there seems to be some perception that the attacks have increased. Well, they have from the low levels they sank to after the elections. But last August, the attacks were over 800. Last November -- I'm sorry, per week -- they were over 900. The elections, over 800. We're talking for the last seven weeks they've been relatively constant at about between 450 and 500. So, I mean, we're less than half, almost half of where we were when it was really hard. So we have brought down that capability, and that's why the absence of a safe haven becomes so important. GRAHAM: Mr. Chairman, I would like to correct the perception that some people may have -- I did not disagree with what Senator Clinton said. I am all for us working together, and there are no bad Americans here. You know, whether you're liberal, moderate, conservative, you're not the enemy; the enemy is the people trying to kill us. #####
06.23.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Richland County School District One will receive a $2.5 million Smaller Learning Communities (SLC) Grant. The SLC program is designed to promote academic achievement through small, safe, and successful learning environments in large high schools. The funds will be used at Dreher High School and Lower Richland High School to build on the existing SLC programs. Dreher proposes to enhance opportunities in their existing Fine Arts, Health and Medicine, Finance and Business, Classical Studies, and Engineering programs. Lower Richland will expand their SLC activities across four career areas: Arts and Humanities, Health and Human Services, Engineering and Technology, and Business and Marketing. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
06.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $500,000 in airport grants for Allendale County, Bamberg County, and the City of Sumter. Allendale County: Allendale County will receive $137,004 for the final construction of a parallel taxiway. Bamberg County: Bamberg County will receive $79,500 for the completion of the paving and lighting on the turn-around taxiway. City of Sumter: The City of Sumter will receive $300,000 for the final construction and rehabilitation phase of Runway 5/23. #####
06.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and U.S. Representative Bob Inglis (R-South Carolina) today held a press conference to recognize the leading role South Carolina plays in hydrogen research and to call for passage of President Bush’s energy bill. “South Carolina is a leader in hydrogen research,” said Graham. “Research institutions across the state have recognized the impact hydrogen fuel technology could have on our future. Working together, they will help lead our state and nation into the next generation of fuel technology.” "Smart cars and fuels of the future will come only from successful collaboration with capable partners," Inglis said. "Here in South Carolina we - Clemson, USC and State - the Upstate, Midlands and Lowcountry - must work in common cause." Graham recently hosted a meeting in Washington to bring together South Carolina’s leaders in hydrogen to discuss collaboration. The goal of the meeting was to help ensure everyone is working together to further the state’s image as a leading research location. Members of South Carolina’s Congressional delegation were in attendance along with representatives from: University of South Carolina- The only university designated by the National Science Foundation for fuel cell research. Clemson University- Leader in the development of ICAR, along with BMW. South Carolina State University- Home of the Clyburn Transportation Center. Savannah River National Lab- Home of the Center for Hydrogen Research, SRS has 50+ years of experience in handling hydrogen and is positioned to be a national leader in a hydrogen economy. “South Carolina has positioned itself well to be a major beneficiary of President Bush’s energy bill,” said Graham. “This bill contains nearly $4 billion for hydrogen research. It is the most aggressive hydrogen fuel development package in our nation’s history.” As Co-Chairman and founder of the Senate Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Caucus, Graham noted the hydrogen section of the energy bill is based largely on legislation he introduced with Senator Byron Dorgan (D-North Dakota). That bill was the result of work done by the bipartisan caucus. The energy bill provides $3.8 billion for hydrogen and fuel cell funding over five years, including $1.1 billion specifically for hydrogen supply research projects. In addition, it establishes demonstration programs for hydrogen technologies and fuel cell vehicles for light-duty and heavy-duty vehicles, calls for enhanced public education and research efforts, and provides for private sector coordination. The bill sets a goal for the private sector of making a decision about the commercialization potential of hydrogen fuel by 2015. “This energy bill has great potential for the future of South Carolina and the nation,” said Graham. “Working with Congressman Inglis and our entire delegation, it is my goal to make South Carolina the Detroit of hydrogen. Passing this bill will go a long way toward achieving that.” ####
06.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement in response to comments made by U.S. Senator Richard Dubin (D-IL). Durbin compared the treatment of Guantanamo prisoners to actions taken by Nazi Germany, the Soviet Union, and former Cambodian leader Pol Pot. Graham, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, said: “Comparing treatment of prisoners at Guantanamo Bay to practices engaged in by some of the worst regimes in human history provides additional fuel to the anti-American propaganda machine. This directly and indirectly puts our troops who serve abroad at additional risk. “Also, characterizing the actions of American service members at the same level of those among the most notorious in history is not only unfair, it’s bad for morale. It should be the last thing coming out of the U.S. Senate at a time of war. “It’s my belief that keeping Guantanamo Bay open, with proper reforms, will help win the War on Terror. Closing the facility will be a setback. “I hope Sen. Durbin will correct the problems he has caused and rise above the political moment to set the record straight. Our men and women in uniform deserve nothing less.” #####
06.16.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today supported the nomination of North Carolina Judge Terrence Boyle to the 4th Circuit Court of Appeals in Richmond. The vote in the Senate Judiciary Committee was 10-8. Boyle was first nominated in October, 1991 by President George H. W. Bush, but he was not given a hearing in the Judiciary Committee, which was controlled by Democrats. In May 2001, President George W. Bush re-nominated Judge Boyle to the Fourth Circuit. The circuit covers South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, and Maryland. “I find Judge Boyle to be extraordinarily qualified and deserving of this promotion,” said Graham. “He will be a great addition to the Court of Appeals and I look forward to voting for his nomination in the full Senate.” South Carolina’s William ‘Billy’ Wilkins serves as the Chief Judge for the circuit. #####
06.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina State University will receive $347,200 for the department of Biological and Physical Sciences. Graham secured the funds as a congressional earmark in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. The funds will be used to procure state-of-the-art equipment to support its research and instructional programs. Funds will also be used to improve laboratories, computer facilities, classrooms, a greenhouse, and offices. ####
06.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was pleased the Senate today confirmed Thomas S. Griffith to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The vote was 73-24. Griffith is the sixth Bush nominee to be confirmed to a federal appeals court in less than four weeks. He joins Judges Priscilla Owen, Janice Rogers Brown, William Pryor, David McKeague, and Richard Griffin on the federal bench. The confirmations are lifetime appointments. The D.C. Court of Appeals is widely considered the second most powerful court in the United States behind the Supreme Court. Graham said: “It was another good day for President Bush, the U.S. Senate and the judiciary. Judge Griffith will be an outstanding conservative judge who will follow the laws as written, not engage in law-making. I know he will serve our nation well.” #####
06.14.2005	Wes Hickman (Graham) 202-224-5972 or Sarah Gegenheimer (Clinton) 202-224-2243 WASHINGTON -- Senators Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-NY) today launched the bipartisan Senate Manufacturing Caucus to spearhead Congressional efforts to address problems facing our country’s manufacturing industry. The United States has seen a significant erosion of its manufacturing base with over three million manufacturing jobs lost over the past seven years. Today, 14.3 million Americans are employed in the manufacturing sector, the lowest level of manufacturing employment since the end of World War II. Manufacturing job losses have hit virtually every state in the country. “For generations, our manufacturing sector has been the backbone of the American economy. Manufacturing jobs built our great Middle Class and allowed millions of families to live the American Dream and create a better life for their children. That bedrock strength is being eroded and we cannot afford as a country to sit back while our manufacturing capability slips away,” said Senator Clinton. “We need a strong manufacturing base for our economy to grow and we need to invest in creating the manufacturing jobs of the future. This caucus will lead efforts on Capitol Hill to help address these challenges.” “South Carolina’s economy is heavily based on manufacturing and over the last decade this sector has taken one hit after another,” said Senator Graham. “We can no longer watch good jobs disappear. It’s now time for Republicans and Democrats to join together to protect American manufacturing jobs and take steps to create a better business environment. The caucus will explore all aspects of the manufacturing sector with the ultimate goal of restoring this vital part of our economy. To improve the manufacturing climate in our state and nation, we’ll have to work together. The creation of the Manufacturing Caucus is another step in the right direction.” The caucus will identify strategies to address the root causes of the problems facing American manufacturing and opportunities for Congressional action to create and keep manufacturing jobs. They also noted the need to address the costs of health care and pensions that threaten American companies and their workers. Manufacturing leads every other sector of our economy in productivity growth, leading to higher wages, higher profits and lower prices. The average manufacturing job pays about $5 per hour more than jobs in the service sector and manufacturing jobs have a multiplier effect -- for every manufacturing job created in the United States, there are four jobs created that depend on that manufacturing job. In particular, Senators Graham and Clinton noted the urgency to continue to invest in research and development to foster innovation needed to keep our manufacturers competitive. Manufacturers currently lead the way in R&D, spearheading almost two-thirds of all private-sector R&D. The innovations resulting from this R&D benefit not only the manufacturing sector, but also non-manufacturing sectors of the economy. Senators Graham and Clinton emphasized we cannot remain confident in our economic or national security if we become a country dependent on our other nations to provide our goods. In order to sustain a healthy and competitive manufacturing base, we need to maintain innovation and productivity. The caucus will bring together business and labor leaders, economists, and other stakeholders; commission academic studies and other inquiries and champion legislation to address challenges facing our country’s manufacturing sector. Clinton and Graham will serve as Co-Chairs of the caucus. Charter members of the caucus include Senators Evan Bayh (D-IN), Saxby Chambliss (R-GA), Tom Coburn (R-OK), Thad Cochran (R-MS), Norm Coleman (R-MN), Kent Conrad (D-ND), Mark Dayton (D-MN), Mike DeWine (R-OH), Richard Durbin (D-IL), Dianne Feinstein (D-CA), Tom Harkin (D-IA), Edward Kennedy (D-MA), Ben Nelson (D-NE), Barack Obama (D-IL), Charles Schumer (D-NY), Arlen Specter (R-PA), and Debbie Stabenow (D-MI). FACTS ON AMERICAN AND SOUTH CAROLINA MANUFACTURING 14.3 million Americans are employed in the manufacturing sector, the lowest level since the end of World War II. The United States has lost 2,997,000 manufacturing jobs in the last 5 years. This represents a loss of 17.4 percent of all manufacturing jobs. South Carolina has lost 72,800 manufacturing jobs in the last 5 years. This represents a loss of 21.6 percent of all manufacturing jobs in South Carolina. The current unemployment rate in South Carolina is 6.5 percent. This is the 5th highest unemployment rate in the country. The national unemployment rate is 5.1 percent. Nationwide, from 2001-2003 the manufacturing sector has lost: 387,900 computer and electronic producing jobs 292,200 metal fabrication jobs 219,500 telecommunications jobs 214,800 machinery jobs 213,300 textile mill jobs 162,500 transportation equipment production jobs 97,000 electrical equipment and appliance jobs #####
06.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- The United States Senate today passed a resolution apologizing to the victims of lynching and their descendants for the Senate’s failure to enact anti-lynching legislation. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) was a co-sponsor of the bipartisan resolution. “It’s appropriate for the Senate to acknowledge its failure as a body and end a sad chapter in our nation’s history,” said Graham. “When people needed us, the Senate was not there.” Between 1882 and 1968 at least 4,742 people, predominantly African-Americans, were reported lynched in the United States. During the first half of the 20th century, nearly 200 anti-lynching bills were introduced in Congress. The House of Representatives passed three strong anti-lynching measures between 1920 and 1940. The Senate failed to act. “Acknowledging the shortcomings of this body and formally offering an apology to the victims and their families helps heal wounds,” said Graham. “I am hopeful that this action will move us further down the road of reconciliation.” ####
06.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Palmetto Health Alliance in Columbia will receive a $1,175,000 Healthy Start Initiative grant. The funds will be used to help eliminate racial and ethnic disparities in perinatal health. The Healthy Start Initiative serves minority and low-income women in an effort to reduce infant mortality rates. The grant was awarded by U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
06.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham today announced the South Carolina Department of Public Safety will receive a $675,200 grant to improve our state’s juvenile justice system. The funds may be used for a variety of programs and activities including: planning and administration, compliance monitoring, juvenile justice issues for American Indian tribes, substance abuse prevention, crime prevention, gang involvement prevention, identification of at risk youth, treatment programs, and aftercare. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
06.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) said he was very pleased the U.S. Senate today confirmed three more judicial nominees from President Bush -- William Pryor, David McKeague, and Richard Griffin -- to positions on the federal bench. Five Bush nominees to federal appeals courts have been confirmed by the Senate in slightly more than two weeks. They include Janice Rogers Brown, Priscilla Owen, and the three judges confirmed today. The confirmations are lifetime appointments. “This has been a banner week for President Bush, the U.S. Senate, and the federal judiciary,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. “We finally achieved up-or-down votes on some of the most distinguished and qualified nominees President Bush has submitted to the U.S. Senate. I’m pleased we confirmed them to the federal bench and know they will serve us well. “I view it as a positive development we are now filling vacancies on the federal courts,” said Graham. “I hope the Senate continues the practice of voting on instead of filibustering judicial nominees.” Pryor will serve as judge on the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta. McKeague and Griffin will serve on the 6th Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati. “The confirmation of William Pryor is the most satisfying to me personally,” said Graham. “Of all the judicial candidates who have been filibustered, I have felt the most sympathy for him and Charles Pickering. “Judge Pryor will be a conservative judge every American can be proud because he will uphold the law – not make it,” said Graham. “He is a solid conservative who has taken some very brave stands in his home state of Alabama to uphold the law. “Judge Pryor has been unmercifully maligned by critics for sharing the values of average every day citizens in Alabama and throughout much of the country,” said Graham. “I’m pleased for him and his family that he will now take his lifetime appointment on the federal bench.” #####
06.08.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said he was pleased the Senate had voted to end the filibuster on William Pryor of Alabama. The vote in the Senate was 67-32. On Thursday, the Senate will vote on his confirmation. Graham made the following statement after the vote. “Of all the judicial candidates who have been filibustered, I have felt the most sympathy for William Pryor and Charles Pickering. “Pryor is one of the most courageous and qualified individuals nominated to serve on the federal bench. He is a solid conservative who has taken some very brave stands in his home state of Alabama to uphold the law and enforce judicial decrees. He’s also been unmercifully maligned by critics for sharing the values of average every day citizens in Alabama and throughout much of the country. “He will be a conservative judge every American can be proud because he will uphold the law – not make it. “Today’s vote ending the filibuster was long overdue and allows a great nominee to move forward. I hope his vindication comes tomorrow when a majority of the Senate confirms him to the federal bench.” ####
06.08.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the confirmation of Janice Rogers Brown to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. The vote in the U.S. Senate was 56-43. Graham said: “It’s been a long journey for the daughter of an Alabama share cropper to a seat on our nation’s second highest court. Janice Rogers Brown has taken this journey and arrived with her head held high. “Judge Brown is a solid conservative who understands what the American Dream is all about and will be a thoughtful addition to the federal bench. “President Bush chose wisely when he nominated Judge Brown. Her presence will advance the cause of conservative judicial philosophy. She will be an ideal conservative judge who follows the law and does not legislate from the bench. “I’m pleased the Senate has now confirmed her to this important position which comes on the heels of Priscilla Owen being confirmed and sworn in as a Judge on the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals.” #####
06.08.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Black River Healthcare, Inc. will receive a $288,489 community health center grant to expand services in Williamsburg County. The grant will help fund three new medical providers, additional exam rooms, clinical support staff, and a management position. Black River Healthcare is headquartered in Manning and has additional clinics in Greeleyville, Kingstree, and Olanta. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
06.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Orangeburg-Calhoun Area Biotechnology Consortium Project administered by Claflin University will receive a $750,000 grant. The grant will be used to create an education infrastructure that helps about 100 students per year train and qualify for positions in the biotechnology industry. “Biotechnology is going to be a major focus of the American economy in the next decade,” said Graham. “It’s important we have a workforce that is well-trained and ready for new jobs in this sector.” Employment in the area’s biotechnology industry, which includes pharmaceuticals, medical devices and equipment, is projected to increase 20 percent by 2010. There are currently no entry-level programs for biotechnology workers in the area and only one established two-year biotechnology entry-level program in the state. Employers and other related biosciences industries have employment needs for skilled workers, but there are no formal targeted or specialized certificate and degrees for entry into biotechnology. Local biotechnology employers also face high rates of turnover. The education process for participants will continue through the issuance of formal certificates for training in biotechnology while others will continue into degree programs. Job shadowing in the biotechnology field will also be a part of the curriculum. Among the disciplines to be established will be Biotechnology Laboratory Technician, Biomanufacturing Technician, Forensics Training, Radiography Technician, and Agricultural Biotechnology Technician. Key partners of the program will be Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College, South Carolina Criminal Justice Academy, Zeus Corporation, Supersod, Albermarle Corporation, Orangeburg County Economic Development Board, and the Lower Savannah Workforce Development Board. Claflin was one of twelve recipients chosen for grants out of 229 proposals received by the U.S. Department of Labor. ####
06.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the 65-32 Senate vote ending the filibuster on the nomination of Janice Rogers Brown to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Tomorrow, the U.S. Senate is scheduled to vote on her confirmation. Graham said: “We now have the opportunity to have an up-or-down vote on an extremely talented and qualified judge. “President Bush chose wisely when he nominated Judge Brown for this important position. Her presence on the federal bench will advance the cause of conservative judicial philosophy. She will be an ideal conservative judge who follows the law and does not legislate from the bench. “I’m very disappointed she has been treated so poorly for nearly two years, but I’m also glad to know that tomorrow she will finally get the vote she has long deserved.” #####
06.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) has been awarded a $449,000 National Criminal History Improvement Program (NCHIP) grant. The goal of the NCHIP is to improve the Nation’s public safety by enhancing the quality, completeness, and accessibility of criminal history record information. SLED will use the funds to: Move criminal history information to a more accessible computer platform; Upgrade and replace network equipment to support access to criminal record files; The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
05.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today voted in support of Priscilla Owen who was confirmed to the 5th Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans. Her nomination had been on hold in the Senate for the past four years. “It’s a very good day when you confirm someone of her quality to serve at the highest levels of the judiciary,” said Graham. “The confirmation vote on Judge Owen confirms what we’ve know all along -- the criticism was politically manufactured opposition. I’m glad she was confirmed and will now take her position on the federal bench.” The vote in the Senate was 56-43. #####
05.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced former South Carolina Speaker of the House David Wilkins before a hearing of the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee. The subcommittee was considering Wilkins’ nomination to be Ambassador to Canada. Graham was joined by U.S. Senators Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) and Jack Reed (D-Rhode Island). Following the hearing, Graham released this statement: “The hearing went very well. Speaker Wilkins enjoys bipartisan support in the Senate and in South Carolina so I hope he will be confirmed soon. “Canada is one of our strongest allies and there has been some tension in the relationship because of the war in Iraq. David is a problem solver and has the personal skills to help repair any damage. He’s also very close and loyal to the President. “South Carolina will lose a great statesman, but the United States will gain a great ambassador. I think he’ll be confirmed in a bipartisan manner and know he and his wife, Susan, will make us all proud.” ####
05.23.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) tonight made the following statement on the agreement which clears the way for some of President Bush's nominees to be confirmed to the federal bench. Graham said: "The American people won tonight. The Senate is back in business. And I truly believe future judicial nominees will be treated better because of this agreement." "The agreement allows up or down votes on deserving nominees and gives the Senate a chance to start over regarding future nominees. It's my hope both sides have learned from their mistakes and we can get back to the traditional way of doing business when it comes to judges. "One of the major elements of the deal makes clear that if one of my seven Democratic colleagues decides to filibuster in the future because of an "extraordinary circumstance," I retain the right to vote for a rules change. It's my hope we never get to that point. "With better communication and a spirit of putting the country ahead of ourselves, I believe we can avoid future filibusters. "We are a nation at war which desperately needs a functioning Senate. Our men and women in harms way deserve Senators with personal courage and respect fo the institution. They are risking their lives to defend our freedom and those of us in the Senate should have the courage to put the welfare of the country ahead of our own personal political interests. That's the least we should do. #####
05.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Attorney General’s office will receive a $400,000 grant to support the Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force. The Task Force brings together federal, state, and local law enforcement and child welfare organizations to: Conduct reactive and proactive ICAC investigations; Develop a prevention education program; Establish a case management system; Develop standardized protocol for interagency referrals; and, Increase forensic and investigative capacity through training and the acquisition of specialized equipment. The South Carolina ICAC Task Force was started in 1998, one of the ten original programs throughout the country. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
05.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Hardeeville Fire and Rescue will receive a thermal imager valued at $12,500 through the Commercial Equipment Direct Assistance Program (CEDAP). CEDAP provides smaller law enforcement and emergency responder agencies with equipment that will enhance and support regional response, mutual aid, and interoperability of equipment. The program will also provide travel, lodging and per diem expenses for one representative to attend a mandatory training session on how to use the machine. The award comes from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
05.19.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina will receive three grants worth more than $1.2 million dollars to bolster law enforcement programs for juveniles. South Carolina Department of Public Safety $671,200 Juvenile Accountability Block Grant- The funds are used to develop programs throughout the State to strengthen the juvenile justice system. $184,000 Community Prevention Grant- The funds are used to create or support community programs throughout the State that focus on reducing risks and enhancing protective factors in order to prevent youth from entering the juvenile justice system. South Carolina Department of Alcohol and Other Drug Abuse Services $350,000 Enforcing Underage Drinking Laws Block Grant- The funds are used throughout the State to help enforce laws that prohibit the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages by minors. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
05.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced $121,669 in fire grants for Bamberg, Lando, Mauldin, and Westminster. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others,” said Graham. “They are truly some of the heroes in our midst. The programs funded by these grants will help enable firefighters to better educate and protect the public.” The funds may be used for public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspector certification, the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland fire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection. The grants awarded include: Bamberg Bamberg Fire Department will receive a $6,773 grant. Lando Lando will receive a $24,458 grant. Mauldin Mauldin will receive a $39,768 grant. Westminster Westminster Fire Department will receive a $50,670 grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
05.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Berkeley and Newberry counties have been awarded federal grants for airport improvements. Berkeley County will receive $150,000 to conduct an environmental assessment for the extension of the taxiway at the Berkeley County Airport. Newberry County will receive $125,000 to help construct a fuel farm at the Newberry County Airport. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
05.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Washington, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-SC) and Jim DeMint (R-SC) voted against the $295 billion highway reauthorization bill that exceeded budget authority by $11 billion. The Senate approved the bill by an 89-11 vote. “It’s only been a few weeks since we adopted a budget to control spending and the Senate has already gone back on its word,” said Senator DeMint. “We had a chance to pass a responsible bill, but the Senate’s addiction to spending prevailed.” “The 11th hour increase in the spending level made it impossible for me to support,” said Senator Graham. “It was a tough decision because there are some important policy changes made in the bill that will benefit our state. The only way our nation will solve its fiscal problems is to do what families and businesses routinely do and that’s stick to a budget.” The Bush Administration has repeatedly warned that it will reject the reauthorization bill if its six-year cost exceeds $284 billion from fiscal year 2004 through fiscal 2009. While both Senators opposed the bill’s excessive spending, DeMint and Graham were able to secure some important policy changes. These include a better formula in the bill that will return more federal gas tax dollars to South Carolina. Under the new legislation, South Carolina would receive 92 cents back on every dollar it sends to Washington in gas taxes, an increase from the 90.5 percent the state has received since 1998. The two Senators were also successful in adding a new safety program that will give states like South Carolina greater flexibility in addressing safety needs. Approximately $1 billion will be available for safety improvements such as rumble strips, widening lanes, installing guard rails, and additional signage. All public roads are eligible for this new safety funding. Highway, public transit, and traffic safety programs are running on a temporary extension that expires May 31. That leaves just eight legislative days for a conference committee to complete its work at reconciling the significant policy differences in the House and Senate bills. “One of my top goals has been to give states more control of their highway dollars,” said Senator DeMint. “I’m glad this bill takes a step in that direction. However, time is running out and we need the conferees to quickly agree on a responsible bill that the President can sign.” “The highway bill was intended to create jobs and direct resources to desperately needed highway infrastructure,” said Senator Graham. “Unfortunately, the final version of the bill we voted on busted the budget and will create a ripple effect throughout the government.” “Fiscal discipline by Democrats and Republicans, when it comes to budget matters, is being eroded in every Congress,” continued Graham. “My vote is a statement of principle that budget discipline does matter no matter how popular the cause. I hope the House and Senate conference committee will exercise more fiscal restraint as they work to resolve the differences between the two bills.” ###
05.17.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the U.S. Treasury report on the currency practices of our trading partners. The report said the fixed exchange rate China maintains “is a substantial distortion to world markets” but did not find them to be manipulating their currency. Graham said: “I hope the Bush Administration builds on this report and lets the Chinese know their currency must change or they will face severe consequences. “For the first time, the Administration has called what China is doing a ‘distortion.’ They are moving in the right direction and I applaud them for beginning to take a tougher line in dealing with the Chinese. But make no mistake, more must be done. “It’s pretty simple – China cheats. The Chinese manipulate their currency to gain an unfair advantage over the U.S. and other nations. The chorus of voices opposing what China is doing is expanding as the G-7 and European Union both accuse China of manipulating its currency. “We need to address this issue as soon as possible. It’s one thing if someone outworks or outsmarts us. But it’s not fair when someone is rigging the rules of the game to give them an unfair competitive advantage.” ####
05.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Catawba Indian Nation will receive a $1,459,690 Indian Housing Block Grant. The funds can be used for affordable housing activities including operating assistance, development of affordable housing, housing services, housing management, or crime prevention safety activities. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
05.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the BRAC realignment and closure process. Among South Carolina military installations: Fort Jackson Gain Net 615 Positions Added 435 Military / 180 Civilian Marine Air Corps Station Beaufort Gain Net 12 Positions Added 12 Civilian McEntire Air National Guard Station Gain Net 426 Positions Added 418 Military / 8 Civilian Naval Weapons Stations Charleston Realigned Net 250 Positions Lost Lost: 170 Military / 149 Civilian Gained: 45 Military / 24 Civilian Shaw Air Force Base Gain 817 Positions Added Lost: 74 Military / 1 Civilian Gained: 816 Military / 76 Civilian Defense Financing and Accounting Service, Charleston Closed Net 368 Positions Lost 368 Civilian South Naval Facilities Engineering Command Closed 543 Positions Lost Lost: 6 Military / 492 Civilian / 45 Mission Contractor “Overall, South Carolina flourished during this round of BRAC because we have supportive communities and the missions being preformed at installations in our state are indispensable to the War on Terror. As this round of BRAC proves, our state represents growth potential for the Department of Defense. “While it was unfortunate that we did lose some positions, our footprint actually increased. I’m pleased with the outcome of the first step in the BRAC process. I believe this successful outcome is the direct result of collaboration between local, state, and federal officials. “I always thought we had a great story to tell and a lot to offer. Today’s round of BRAC shows the Department of Defense believes the same. We must not rest though as this is only one step in a long process. Until this is finished, we must not let our guard down.” ##### Notes on Today’s BRAC Announcement and South Carolina: Charleston, which has 368 positions slated for closure at the Defense Finance Accounting Services (DFAS), joined a long list of states seeing these facilities on the DOD list. Altogether, states show 3,473 positions slated for elimination in DFAS under BRAC. Among the states losing: California with 471 positions, Florida 209, Kentucky 45, Maine 241, Maryland 53, Missouri 906, New York 290, and Ohio 1,258. Indiana appears to be the only state to buck the trend gaining 100 positions. Fort Jackson in Columbia will now be the location where all Army drill sergeants will be trained. Fort Jackson will also be the location where all chaplains in the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Air Force will be trained. Shaw Air Force Base in Sumter will become a joint facility with the addition of an Army 3-star General and staff who will be headquartered there. McEntire Air National Guard Station in Eastover will gain 9 of some of the most advanced F-16 fighters.
05.11.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina will receive two grants totaling more than $10 million to aid victims of crime throughout the state. The Department of Public Safety will receive a $5,359,000 grant to enhance victims’ services. The funds can be used to support programs such as shelters, rape crisis centers, and counseling services. The Office of Victim Assistance will receive a $4,736,000 grant to provide direct compensation to crime victims. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
05.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Ridge Spring has been awarded a $484,600 grant and $791,000 loan to construct a wastewater treatment facility. The new facility will help the town meet the discharge limits established by the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control. The grant and loan were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
05.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $175,000 in grants to fire departments in Cordova, Greenwood, Marietta, Mullins, and Walhalla. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others,” said Graham. “They are truly some of the heroes in our midst. The programs funded by these grants will help enable firefighters to better educate and protect the public.” The funds may be used for public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspector certification, the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland fire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection. The grants awarded include: Cordova Cordova Fire Department will receive a $30,378 grant. Greenwood Northwest Volunteer Fire & Rescue Department will receive a $12,267 grant. Marietta Slater-Marietta Fire Department will receive a $63,810 grant. Mullins Mullins Fire and Rescue will receive a $45,000 grant. Walhalla The Oconee County Fire Chiefs Association will receive a $25,900 grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
05.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the Healthy South Carolina Challenge. “It’s sad but true South Carolina ranks toward the top of the list when it comes to the number of individuals afflicted with chronic health problems like diabetes and strokes. For that reason, I think it’s important we all do our part in promoting healthier living in our state. I appreciate Jenny and Mark inviting me to join in this effort and look forward to working together to improve our health and well-being.” Additional information on the Challenge can be found at http://www.healthysc.gov #####
05.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Sumter will receive a $436,261 Community Development Block Grant. The Community Development Block Grant Program develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
05.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Hemingway will receive an $863,300 grant and a $489,000 loan for water system infrastructure improvements. The funds will be used to extend approximately 15 miles of additional service lines to serve the Brunson Crossroads area just outside of the Town of Hemingway. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
05.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the City of Spartanburg will receive a $196,112 grant to aid in solving cold cases with DNA evidence. The Solving Cold Cases with DNA Program was established to search, evaluate, select, and conduct DNA analysis on violent crime cold cases that have the potential to be solved through DNA testing. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Justice. ####
04.29.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today issued the following statement on President Bush’s call for progressive price indexing of future Social Security benefits. “The President took a bold step toward restoring solvency to Social Security by embracing benefit growth reduction for upper income workers. “The most significant aspect of the decision is the President has chosen to put future benefits, for those born after 1950, on the table for restructuring – an idea rejected by some Republican plans. “With progressive-price indexing changes as part of the President’s solution, the next step is to discuss how to set up a personal account. Setting up personal accounts should be done without changing the structure or purpose of Social Security and have a minimal effect on the deficit. “I applaud my Republican colleagues for being brave in offering solutions. Now it’s time for us to embrace the President’s proposal and understanding that future benefits need to be recalculated. I also urge them to keep an open mind about personal accounts that would be paid for and progressive.” #####
04.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on President Bush and Social Security. “We’re now transitioning from defining the problem to solving the problem. Hard choices await the country but working together in a bipartisan manner we can strengthen Social Security. “Strengthening Social Security is worth political sacrifice. I’m confident the American people will rise to the occasion and do their part to make sure the system is a safety net for future generations. “By embracing progressive price indexing the President has taken a major step forward in the solvency debate and provided leadership that will lead to a permanent solution for Social Security. The rescheduling of benefits through price indexing is an absolutely essential component in saving Social Security from bankruptcy. “The problems facing Social Security can and must be responsibly dealt with soon. The people who elected us to office deserve nothing less.” #####
04.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on David Wilkins, Speaker of the South Carolina House of Representatives, being named United States Ambassador to Canada. Graham said: “Canada’s gain is our state’s loss. David Wilkins will be remembered as one of the greatest Speakers of the House in South Carolina history. “President Bush could not have chosen a more effective and talented ambassador to represent the United State’s interests than David Wilkins. “His assignment to Canada, one of our most important diplomatic posts, demonstrates the faith President Bush has in his abilities. It also reflects well on our state that he was chosen for this tremendous opportunity.” #####
04.27.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Daniel Morgan Rural Community Water District in Gaffney will receive a $519,100 grant and $1,074,000 loan for water infrastructure improvements. "One of the problems our state has in attracting and retaining new business is we sometimes lack the necessary infrastructure," said Graham. "We need to continue working to do more to ensure we have the ability to economically grow and prosper in the coming years." The funds will be used to extend waterlines into unserved areas of the Water District, and replace and upgrade existing waterlines. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
04.27.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Marco Rural Water Company in Marion will receive a $259,300 grant and $693,000 loan for water line relocation. The funds will be used to relocate 33,722 feet of existing water line along US Highway 501. The relocation is necessary due to South Carolina Department of Transportation construction. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
04.26.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- Today, the program that U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Hillary Rodham Clinton (D-New York) helped create to expand access to health care benefits for reservists goes into effect. In October 2004, the Senators worked to pass a provision in the FY 2005 Ronald Reagan Defense Authorization Bill enabling reservists meeting eligibility requirements to enroll in TRICARE, the military health care system. The Senators hailed the expansion of the program today, but emphasized that there is still more work to be done to provide members of the National Guard and Reserves with the health care benefits they deserve. The eligibility requirements allow Guardsmen and Reservists who serve on active duty under federal orders for 90 consecutive days or more to be eligible for one year of TRICARE coverage. For every additional 90 days of service they will be eligible for an additional year of health care coverage. The Department of Defense (DOD) pays approximately 72 percent and the reservist is responsible for the remaining 28 percent. The costs will be $75 per month for the member-only plan or $233 per month for member and family. “This is another step forward in our effort to ensure that every member of the Selected-Reserve and their families have year-round access to military health care,” said Graham, the only U.S. Senator currently serving in a Guard or Reserve unit. “Providing health care will be a tremendous benefit, as almost one-fifth of Guardsmen and Reservists do not have health care in the private sector.” “Today marks an important stride forward in expanding eligibility for TRICARE military health benefits to our Guard members and Reservists and their families,” said Clinton. “But more work needs to be done to ensure that our Guard and Reserve have access to the health care benefits they need and deserve.” Under the old rules, members of the Reserve Component and their families were eligible for TRICARE only while on active duty. “Guardsmen and Reservists are the only part-time federal employees who are currently ineligible for federal government full-time health care benefits,” said Graham. “It’s my goal, in a bipartisan manner, to alleviate this inequity. This program we helped push into law last year takes another step toward that goal.” “When Senator Graham and I visited our troops in Iraq we saw first hand that the role of our Guard and Reserve has changed. They are taking on significant responsibility, playing critically important roles both overseas and in homeland security,” said Clinton. “We need to give them the support they need to be successful and the program being launched today helps move us in that direction.” In February, Graham and Clinton introduced legislation (S.337, The Guard and Reserve Readiness Retention Act of 2005) to further expand healthcare benefits for members of the National Guard and Reserves by allowing them to enroll in TRICARE for a monthly premium regardless of their activation status. In addition, the legislation provides for a decrease in retirement age based on years of service. Under current law, the retirement age is 60. Under the proposal, if an individual serves for 22 years, they are eligible for retirement at 59. An individual entering military service at 18 and serving for 34 years could begin receiving his or her retirement benefits at 53. “We’re going to continue pushing for a better benefit package for our citizen-soldiers,” said Graham. “The National Guard and Reserves have been called upon more often to help protect this country and defend American interests. They are playing a vital role in Operation Iraqi Freedom and are an integral part of the war on terrorism. They need to be rewarded and justly compensated for their service to our nation. Our proposal will also help in our recruiting and retention efforts.” “Under our bill, if you are a member of the National Guard or Reserves, you and your family have access to health care,” said Clinton. “We believe this is the right thing to do for our Guard and Reserves and a smart thing to do as we rely on the reserve component to make up a significant part of our military operations.” ######
04.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the town of Summerton will receive a $2,474,400 grant and $800,000 loan to upgrade and expand the wastewater treatment plant. "One of the problems rural areas of our state have in attracting and retaining new business is sometimes they lack the necessary infrastructure," said Graham. "We need to continue working to do more to ensure the rural areas of our state have the ability to economically grow in the coming years." The plant modifications will include an upgrade of the pump station and the addition of two new lagoons. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. ####
04.21.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today expressed his support for Representative Rob Portman to serve as the U.S. Trade Representative (USTR). He made the following statement: “I was encouraged by Congressman Portman’s testimony and pledge today to address concerns with China. I look forward to working with him to ensure our trade laws are enforced and American manufacturers can compete on a level playing field. “China cheats to gain an unfair advantage on the international market. Congressman Portman expressed his commitment to redirect USTR resources to address this devastating issue. We must take action to protect American jobs and ensure transparency and openness for American goods to enter the Chinese market. Congress also must ensure the office of the USTR has the resources it needs -- including a trade prosecutor -- to enforce laws already on the books. “I look forward to working with Congressman Portman as our trade representative to expand markets for U.S. goods. I hope the Senate considers and approves his nomination as soon as possible.” #####
04.21.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today said John Bolton is the right choice to serve as the United States ambassador to the United Nations. He made the following statement: “John Bolton will serve our nation well as ambassador to the United Nations. He is highly qualified for the position and understands the flaws -- financial and policy-wise -- that exist within the UN. “Mr. Bolton will be an agent of reform. “The United Nations remains an important player on the world stage. However, without reform it will slowly and surely continue to lose credibility in the eyes of many Americans. The ongoing Oil-for-Food scandal is a prime example of the challenges facing the organization. “I believe Mr. Bolton will serve our nation well and the Senate should confirm him to this important position.” #####
04.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Conway Fire Department will receive a $66,600 Assistance to Firefighters Grant. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The funds can be used for prevention and safety activities including public education and awareness; fire code enforcement; fire inspector certifications; the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems; wildland/wildfire mitigation; and arson prevention and detection. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
04.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $1 million in federal grants for airports in Pelion, Ridgeland, and St. George. Pelion The Town of Pelion will receive a $321,696 grant for the construction of a new fuel farm facility at the Pelion Airport. Ridgeland Jasper County will receive a $50,000 grant for airfield pavement maintenance and rehabilitation and relocation of existing runway lighting at the Ridgeland Airport. St. George Dorchester County will receive a $700,000 grant for runway and apron rehabilitation at the St. George Airport. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
04.18.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement after President Bush addressed a joint session of the South Carolina General Assembly. “The President has done an excellent job of defining the demographic problems facing Social Security. “Millions of Americans rely on Social Security as a means of survival. The Social Security safety net is a common bond that brings us all together and I am pleased President Bush is focusing on this aspect of the program. “I was also encouraged to hear President Bush reiterate all options were on table, except for raising the 12.4 percent tax rate and changing the program for those at or near retirement. “I anticipate and hope that after his sixty-day tour of the nation the President will present more specific ideas to the nation.” ####
04.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Darkness to Light in Charleston will receive $445,031 in federal funds to develop and implement a web-based training program to help employees and volunteers of youth/faith organizations prevent, recognize and respond to child sexual abuse. Graham secured the funds in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. Adults who complete the online training program will be educated about the prevalence and consequences of child sexual abuse. As part of the program, each participant develops a personal ‘action plan’ to better safeguard children. The online training includes creative learning exercises and innovative experiential scenarios to teach adults how to recognize the signs of sexual abuse and what to do when abuse is discovered. At the end of every training program, participants are given a test to assess how much they have learned and where there is need for further review. With this training program adults around the country can be properly informed about child sexual abuse and provided with the necessary tools to protect children. The funds are awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
04.11.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $1.25 million in federal grants for community health center grants in Greenville and Manning. New Horizon’s Family Health Services in Greenville will receive a $522,938 grant, and Black River Healthcare in Manning will receive a $733,333 grant. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
04.08.2005	Wes Hickman for Senator Graham (202-224-5972) or Adam Temple for Senator DeMint (202-224-6121) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has awarded South Carolina more than $42 million in grant money for 2005. The awards consist of $26.51 million for the Community Development Block Grant Program; $12.99 million for the HOME Investment Partnership Program; $1.47 million for the Emergency Shelter Grant Program; $1.36 million for the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program; and $445,207 for the American Dream Down Payment Initiative. The Community Development Block Grant Program (CDBG) develops communities and provides housing by expanding economic opportunities for low and moderate income households. The HOME Investment Partnership Program creates affordable housing for by allowing communities to design and implement strategies tailored to their own needs and priorities. The Emergency Shelter Grant Program provides funds for the rehabilitation or conversion of buildings for use as emergency shelter. The Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS Program addresses the housing needs of persons diagnosed with AIDS. The American Dream Down Payment Initiative promotes homeownership opportunities by providing necessary resources for down payment and closing cost assistance to lower-income and minority households. ####
04.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Health Care Partners of South Carolina, Inc. in Conway will receive a $1,396,718 Community Health Center grant. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
04.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) has been awarded four grants totaling more than $895,000. The grants include: $283,500 to conduct blood disease research. $255,500 to study drug interactions. $203,670 to conduct mental health research in treating the effects of child sexual abuse. $154,135 for digestive disease and nutrition research. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
04.07.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham’s (R-South Carolina) and Charles Schumer’s (D-New York) work over the past two years trying to get China to stop manipulating its currency received a major boost today when the pair announced the Republican and Democratic leadership in the Senate had agreed to a floor vote on their legislation. “Getting a straight up-or-down vote on our bill is what we have wanted all along,” said Graham. “China needs to reform its trade practices or suffer serious reprisals. For two years, I’ve been telling China it’s time to transition to a market-based currency. The Senate’s vote was the most positive step in years when it comes to reforming Chinese trade practices.” The issue was brought to a head when Graham and Schumer offered their legislation as an amendment to the Foreign Affairs Authorization Act. A procedural motion to table the amendment was brought forward and soundly defeated in a bipartisan 67-33 vote, a majority of Republicans and Democrats opposed the measure. Graham and Schumer then worked with the leadership in both parties to come to a written agreement on timing of a straight up-or-down vote on their free-standing bill, S. 295, no later than July 27. The pair then agreed to withdraw their amendment. The bill calls for a 180-day negotiation period between the United States and China to revalue its currency. If the negotiations are not successful, a temporary across the board tariff of 27.5 percent would be applied to all Chinese products entering the United States. If the President determines at the end of the negotiation period China has developed and started actual implementation of a plan to revalue its currency, he may delay imposition of the tariff for another twelve months. “Two-thirds of the Senate expressed displeasure with Chinese trade practices,” said Graham. “If China wants to be part of the international community, it’s time for them to clean up their act. Until they start playing by the rules, our manufacturing industry will continue to bleed jobs because of unfair Chinese trade practices.” The yuan -- sometimes known as renminbi -- has been tightly pegged to the U.S. dollar since 1994 (approximately 8.28 Yuan to the dollar). If China’s currency freely floated in the market, as is the case with virtually all major world currencies, it would have appreciated substantially. “I appreciate the efforts of the Bush Administration to move the Chinese to a market based currency,” said Graham. “I think our effort in the Senate will be helpful in that endeavor.” #####
04.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on South Carolina Governor Mark Sanford signing medical malpractice legislation into law. Graham has voted against medical malpractice legislation on the federal level. He has argued the proper venue for this change in state law should be addressed by the South Carolina state legislature and governor, not the federal government in Washington. Graham said: “Working together, the General Assembly and Governor Sanford have brought about major medical legal reform we can all be proud of. It’s the result of a lot of hard work on the part of doctors, lawyers, consumer groups and elected officials. The Governor and legislature struck a good balance between competing interests and their work will serve the citizens of our state well. I congratulate them on taking on this difficult task and coming together to move South Carolina forward. “It’s my belief government closest to the people it represents is the most effective. I believe reform legislation designed by our elected officials in the state legislature and signed into law by our governor was the best way to deal with this contentious issue. “South Carolina’s reforms may be different than what has been done in other states, but it’s what we believe will work for us. “At some point, Congress will most likely again take up this issue and seek to establish a one-size fits all remedy. It’s my hope elected officials in Washington will not try to undo the progress our state has made in addressing this issue.” #####
04.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the death of Pope John Paul II. “Pope John Paul II was an inspiration to all freedom-loving people. His moral leadership, partnering with President Reagan and British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, helped collapse the Soviet Union. “I am certain history will say Pope John Paul II helped change the world for the better. He will be missed, but his legacy will continue many years in the future.” #####
04.01.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced over $12 million in grants to South Carolina airports. “Airports play a vital role in growing the local economy by making the area more attractive for economic development and business recruitment,” said Graham. “These grants are an investment in the future of our state.” Columbia Metropolitan Columbia Metropolitan will receive $4,407,908 to rehabilitate and increase apron areas. The funding also improves the terminal building by acquiring and installing loading bridges to enhance passenger and airline efficiency. Safety at the airport will be enhanced by the installation of perimeter fencing around a portion of the airport boundary. Myrtle Beach International Myrtle Beach International will receive $3,575,138 for the initial phase of construction for the new terminal area access road system to accommodate passenger demand at the airport. The funds will provide for the initial phase of the new apron and taxiway system from the airfield to the newly relocated terminal building. Georgetown County: Georgetown County will receive $1,150,000. Funds will be used to study the environmental impact of the proposed runway extension, fund improvements to the airport access road, relocate airport utilities, and install a new airfield lighting vault. A new rotating beacon will be installed to improve visibility of the facility and thereby enhance safety to aircraft using the airport. Pageland: The city of Pageland will receive $634,216 for the acquisition of land adjacent to the airport. Lee County: Lee County will receive $558,400 to help phase II of the runway paving development which includes site preparation, grading, paving, extending and lighting of the current runway to improve airport facilities and operational safety. Rock Hill/York County/Bryant Field Bryant Field will receive $346,170 for the second phase of construction of the apron to be expanded to meet current demand by airport users. Charleston AFB/International: Charleston AFB/International will receive $312,888 for security enhancements. The project includes construction of a new airport building for storage and maintenance of required airport safety and security equipment. Saluda County: Saluda County will receive $309,733 for the rehabilitation of the existing runway pavement surface to maintain current investment and enhance aircraft operational safety at the airport. Hartsville Regional: Hartsville Regional will receive $221,254 to update the existing Airport Layout Plan. The project will allow for the acquisition of approximately 42 acres of land under the Runway 3 end approach surface to ensure airport control and maximize safe airport operations. Cheraw Municipal/Lynch Bellinger Field The town of Cheraw will receive $166,905 to install approximately 8,500 feet of airport perimeter fencing to increase security and safety for the airport. East Cooper Airport East Cooper will receive $162,750 for a new automated weather observing system to report weather conditions. This system will enhance safety by providing pilots accurate, real-time runway surface weather information prior to an approach or departure to/from the airport. County of Georgetown/Andrews/Robert F Swinnie: Robert F. Swinnie will receive $150,000 for the first phase of design and initial clearing of the airport runway approach surfaces to enhance safety of aircraft operating at the airport. Williamsburg Regional: Williamsburg Regional will receive $150,000 for the environmental analysis and design of the partial parallel taxiway to accommodate aircraft using the airport and improve airport safety. Oconee County Regional: Oconee Regional will receive $115,900 for the final phase of planning for the runway 7/25 extension and includes an airport layout plan, airport property survey and environmental assessment. Marlboro County Jetport - H.E. Avent Field: Marlboro County Jetport will receive $103,550 to provide additional Airport Layout Planning drawings to determine needed obstruction removal in the existing and future approach surfaces. This project will acquire 42 acres of land adjacent to the airport for control of potential obstructions to aircraft. The project allows for the remarking of the current airport runway and taxiway pavement surfaces. ####
03.30.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced CareSouth Carolina in Hartsville and Catawba Care Coalition in Rock Hill will each receive a $400,000 grant to help provide comprehensive primary health care for individuals living with HIV disease. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
03.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Marine Corps Air Station Beaufort and Beaufort County will receive $1 million in federal funds to enter into an encroachment partnership. The funds will allow the partnership to purchase restrictive easements from willing owners of agricultural land near the Station to ensure future development does not encroach on military property or training activities. “This is a unique partnership that demonstrates how a military installation and the community can work together for mutual benefit,” said Graham. “These funds will help preserve open space in the community, and address an issue important to the Air Station, encroachment.” The funding comes from the U.S. Marine Corps. ####
03.25.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced colleges and universities throughout South Carolina will receive more than $7 million dollars in TRIO Student Support Services grants. The funds are used to offer support services to increase the retention and graduation rates of low-income and first generation college students, and college students with disabilities. Award recipients include: Central Carolina Technical College- $220,000 Claflin University- $267,986 Clinton Junior College- $123,750 Florence-Darlington Technical College- $220,000 Greenville Technical College- $372,365 Lander University- $220,000 Midlands Technical College- $267,986 Morris College- $268,570 Northeastern Technical College- $241,668 Orangeburg-Calhoun Technical College- $278,292 Piedmont Technical College- $271,074 South Carolina State University- $235,689 Spartanburg Methodist College- $236,967 Spartanburg Technical College- $263,283 Technical College of the Lowcountry- $267,986 Tri-County Technical College- $285,169 Trident Technical College- $314,273 University of South Carolina/Beaufort- $265,711 University of South Carolina/Salkehatchie- $228,531 University of South Carolina/Columbia- $318,380 University of South Carolina/Lancaster- $244,650 University of South Carolina/Spartanburg- $267,986 University of South Carolina/Sumter- $267,986 University of South Carolina/Union- $234,229 Voorhees College- $234,229 Williamsburg Technical College- $220,000 Winthrop University- $220,000 York Technical College- $271,062 The grants are awarded by the U.S. Department of Education. ####
03.24.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) and Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina) today announced Florence-Darlington Technical College will receive a $2,173,113 million grant for construction of the Southeastern Institute of Manufacturing and Technology (SIMT). “The SIMT will be one of the premier industrial training facilities in the country,” said Graham. “It will help promote the future economic development of Florence, Darlington and Marion counties and help ensure that South Carolina remains competitive in the global economy.” "I'm excited about the impact the institute will have on the Pee Dee area,” said DeMint. “This is exactly the kind of investment we need to make South Carolina one of the best places in the world to do business. Building a top-notch workforce will help attract prospective companies to our state and provide existing companies with a 'go-to' resource to improve training and productivity." The funds will be used for infrastructure improvements and site preparation to accommodate the Phase I building. The funds were awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
03.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Department of Transportation (SCDOT) will receive more than $3.3 million in federal funds for transportation projects throughout the state. Aiken County $661,333 for Phase 2 construction of the Palmetto Parkway. Lee County $992,000 for construction of the Bishopville Bypass. Pickens County $132,266 for replacement of the Old Central Bridge. Statewide $1,514,732.00 for the InRoads Intelligent Transportation System. SCDOT was awarded funding for each of these projects in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. These awards are a partial release of that funding. The funds are awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
03.21.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina will receive a $320,220 grant to conduct heart and vascular disease research. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
03.16.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on Senate passage of an amendment opening the door for energy exploration at the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). The U.S. Senate adopted the measure after years of debate. “ANWR is about the size of the state of South Carolina. The drilling footprint is about 2,000 acres, the size of a large airport. “New technologies in drilling and the need to reduce our dependence on foreign oil are among the reasons I support limited exploration in ANWR. I believe time will prove us right in voting to open ANWR to exploration.” #####
03.16.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement in response to Senator Harry Reid’s (D-NV) comments about the amendment offered by Senator Bill Nelson (D-FL) to the budget resolution. Graham voted for the resolution. He said: “Senator Harry Reid does not speak for me regarding my vote for Senator Nelson’s resolution. “I personally believe the deficit effects of personal accounts can be solved and should be. Personal accounts are a vital part of the solution mix for Social Security reform. They should be on the table and I intend to keep them there. I also do not intend to oversell or demagogue them either. “I am trying to show bipartisan support for those Senators who are willing to express themselves about Social Security. My vote yesterday was an effort to show support to a Democratic colleague. It should not be turned into opposition to President Bush who I am very proud of in leading this debate. “I completely disagree with Senator Reid’s demagoguery of the personal account issue and hope the spin machine will stop. “Senator Reid seems to be intent on chanting slogans. Some of us in the Senate are intent on finding common ground. “The President is doing the right thing in leaving options on the table while Senator Reid is doing tremendous damage to Social Security reform by taking options off.” #####
03.15.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – By a vote of 100-0, the U.S. Senate today passed an amendment to the budget resolution sponsored by U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) which details the problems facing Social Security. “The unanimous vote by the Senate today mirrors President Bush’s description of the problems facing Social Security and in that regard is a significant step forward,” said Graham, a member of the Senate Budget Committee. “In a unanimous vote, the Senate is now on the record in agreement that Social Security is facing major structural problems. If they are not addressed, it will result in massive tax increases or benefit cuts for younger Americans.” “My hope is that by commonly defining the problem, it will lead to common ground in terms of solutions,” continued Graham. The amendment lays out the priorities for the Senate when it comes to discussing Social Security reform. The Senate agrees that: The President, Congress, and the American people including seniors, workers, women, minorities, and disabled persons should work together at the earliest opportunity to enact legislation to achieve a solvent and permanently sustainable Social Security system. Social Security reform must protect current and near retirees from any changes to Social Security benefits, reduce the pressure on future taxpayers and other budgetary priorities, provide benefit levels that adequately reflect individual contributions to the Social Security system, and preserve and strengthen the safety net for vulnerable populations including the disabled and survivors. According to the nonpartisan Office of Chief Actuary of the Social Security Administration the number of workers paying taxes to support each Social Security beneficiary has dropped from 16.5 in 1950 to 3.3 in 2002. Within a generation, there will only be 2 workers to support each retiree. Without structural reform, in 2018 Social Security will being paying out more in benefits than it collects in taxes and the Social Security trust fund will be exhausted in 2042 and only able to pay 73 percent of promised benefits. The resolution also notes Social Security is the foundation of retirement for most Americans and strengthening the system is a national priority. Without structural reform, future Congresses may have to raise payroll taxes 50 percent over the next 75 years to pay full benefits on time or lower Social Security benefit levels. “I firmly believe today was a move forward in the debate over how to save Social Security,” said Graham. “One hundred Senators came together to define the problem facing Social Security in real and honest terms, clearly demonstrating that doing nothing leads to massive taxes increases and/or benefit cuts for young Americans. “Reaching an agreement on the true nature of the problem facing younger Americans should allow for a more thoughtful and constructive debate over how to solve what we now have unanimously defined as a ticking time bomb.” ######
03.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Sumter Family Health Center will receive a $644,800 Community Health Center grant. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
03.10.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has introduced legislation designed to reign in costs of the Medicare prescription drug bill. U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-Alabama) has signed on as a co-sponsor. “As we try to improve senior’s health care we cannot do it in a way that will doom their grandchildren with debts they cannot afford to pay,” said Graham. “I was always concerned the projected costs of the Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit would turn out to be wrong. Even I was surprised at how quickly and dramatically the projected costs of the program spiked. I’m afraid this isn’t going to be the last bit of bad news we receive about the long-term costs of this new entitlement.” The new benefit was initially estimated to cost $395 billion over the next ten years when the bill passed Congress and was signed into law by President Bush in December 2003. A mere two months after becoming law, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) revised the figure and projected the bill to cost an estimated $534 billion. This week, a Congressional Budget Office report pushed the cost to $849 billion over the next 10 years. The Medicare Prescription Drug Cost Containment Act of 2005 would place a cap on the program’s expenditures equal to Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates for fiscal years 2005-2013, and allow for reasonable growth after that. Should the Medicare actuaries determine that the cap has been exceeded in any fiscal year the President would be required to submit to Congress legislation to reduce the cost of the Prescription Drug Benefit. Graham proposes controlling the long-term costs of the program by: Placing caps on Medicare prescription drug outlays. The caps would be equal to the estimate of outlays for Prescription Drug Benefit for Fiscal Years (FY) 2005-2013 as estimated by CBO. The caps for FY 2005-2013 2005: $800 million (program not in full effect) 2006: $25.7 billion 2007: $39.0 billion 2008: $44.6 billion 2009: $48.7 billion 2010: $53.7 billion 2011: $58.6 billion 2012: $65.3 billion 2013: $73.1 billion Requiring the President to submit legislation to Congress reducing the costs of the prescription drug benefit upon determination the cap will be exceeded in any fiscal year. The President’s legislation would be considered on a fast-track basis and could not be amended or filibustered. Failure by a President to submit legislation would allow any Senator to move to discharge from the Finance Committee any Medicare reform legislation to lower the cost of the drug benefit. “The prescription drug benefit was tacked on to an already broken Medicare program without underlying reform,” said Graham. “We have a responsibility to protect future generations from overbearing deficits and look at ways to reign in spending and modernize entitlement programs.” “I want seniors to have a prescription drug benefit, but I’m not prepared to do it at all costs,” said Graham. “The Medicare prescription drug benefit, as it’s currently structured, allows uncontrolled expansion that may topple the entire system.” ####
03.10.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $220,000 in grants to fire departments in Landrum and Walterboro. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants will help the fire departments improve their training, wellness and fitness programs; purchase new firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and, make modifications to fire stations and facilities. Landrum Gowensville Fire Department will receive $25,884. Walterboro Colleton County Fire & Rescue will receive $196,290. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
03.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Senate unanimously passed a resolution honoring the former Secretary General of China Zhao Ziyang. U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) introduced the bipartisan resolution. Zhao is best-known for his 1989 actions advising against the use of force to end the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square. He also warned thousands of students authorities were approaching the Square demonstrating his sympathy for the cause of democracy. As a result of his actions, Zhao was removed from office and placed under house arrest, a sentence he remained under for the past 15 years. When he passed away on January 17, 2005 the Chinese government was indecisive about allowing a ceremony. Eventually, they allowed a modest one to be held at which mourners were surrounded in an intimidating environment and many mourners were barred from attending. Upon his death, Zhao’s passing was not mentioned in state-controlled television broadcasts and received little attention in state-controlled newspapers. Eulogies were erased by censors on memorial websites. After the memorial service the Chinese government reluctantly released an official obituary where it noted Zhao made “serious mistakes” during the political disturbance in the spring and summer of 1989. The U.S. Senate resolution recognizes Zhao’s contributions to the reform movement in China and expresses the sympathy of the Senate to his family and supporters who were unable to grieve appropriately. Furthermore, it calls on China to release all prisoners of conscience, including those jailed after Tiananmen Square, and allow those people exiled for political activity to be allowed to return to China and live in peace. “To those who doubt the oppressive nature of the current Chinese government, the treatment of Zhao in life and death should serve as a reminder,” said Graham. “China still represses its people and denies and defies the basic tenets of a representative government. Our resolution is a signal to the Chinese government the U.S. Senate rejects these abuses of basic human rights.” ####
03.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Medical University of South Carolina will receive a $365,000 grant for drug abuse research, and a $180,755 grant to help improve training in emergency medical services for children. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
03.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senators Lindsey Graham and Jim DeMint today announced the city of Dillon will receive a $785,000 Economic Development Administration (EDA) grant to help with a wastewater collection system in an industrial area. The proposed investment consists of 4,982 linear feet of 10-inch gravity wastewater line, 16 associated manholes, 17,827 linear feet of 12-inch force main, and one pump station. The proposed sewer system improvements are required to appropriately serve an industrial expansion as well as meet the needs of the area for future industrial growth. “This grant will help Dillon and the surrounding communities continue to build the necessary infrastructure to attract and retain more businesses,” said Graham. “We need to continue building infrastructure in our rural counties, particularly those with very high unemployment rates. This is another important step in the right direction.” “This investment in Dillon County will save and create hundreds of South Carolina jobs, and I’m pleased that the EDA has awarded these funds. This grant will increase the competitiveness of the area, and I commend the area leaders in Dillon, Marion and Marlboro counties for their continued efforts to attract industry to the area,” said DeMint who sits on the Senate Commerce Committee which has jurisdiction over the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Economic Development Administration. ######
03.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $500,000 in grants to fire departments in Gaffney, Latta, Orangeburg, and Spartanburg. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The grants were awarded in one of three program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Gaffney Macedonia Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $127,089 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Latta Latta-Dillon County Fire Department Area 2 will receive a $117,329 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Orangeburg West Middle Fire Department will receive a $157,500 Firefighting Vehicle Grant. Spartanburg Croft Fire Department will receive a $131,157 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
03.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced South Carolina will receive a $20,521,015 grant for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in the state. The funds, awarded under the Ryan White Title II Formula Grants Program, can be used to provide a variety of services to low-income individuals and families living with HIV/AIDS. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
03.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division (SLED) will receive a $26,283,735 grant for preparedness activities related to implementing the State Homeland Security Strategy. “The tragic events of September 11, 2001 changed our world forever,” said Graham. “Threats continue to exist from terrorist organizations determined to destroy our way of life. Law enforcement officers and first responders are on the front lines defending South Carolina and protecting our citizens. The sacrifice made by these brave men and women make them some of the heroes in our midst.” The money will be used to support programs that enhance coordination of regional efforts to prevent, respond to, and recover from terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, and natural disasters. The funding includes $16,925,018 for the State Homeland Security Program; $6,154,552 for the Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program; $2,761,710 for the Emergency Management Performance Grant Program; $227,592 for the Metropolitan Medical Response System; and $214,863 for the Citizen Corps Program. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.23.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced nearly $1,000,000 in grants to fire departments in Beaufort, Bowman, Cheraw, Conway, Greer, North Charleston, Orangeburg, and Pomaria.. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The grants were awarded in one of three program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. Fire Prevention Program: The funds may be used for public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspector certification, the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland fire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection. The grants awarded include: Beaufort Lady’s Island-St. Helena Fire District will receive a $153,212 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Bowman Bowman Volunteer Fire Department will receive an $80,973 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Cheraw Brocks Mill Rural Fire Department will receive a $139,500 Firefighting Vehicle Grant. Conway Horry County Fire/Rescue will receive a $48,206 Fire Prevention Grant. Greer City of Greer Fire Department will receive a $65,880 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. North Charleston City of North Charleston Fire Department will receive a $98,035 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Orangeburg Orangeburg Department of Public Safety will receive a $370,827 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Pomaria Consolidated Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $43,223 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced airport grants for Charleston and Florence. Charleston: Charleston Executive will receive $2,173,250 to rehabilitate runways, conduct an airport master plan study, and expand an apron. The master plan will help the airport identify future development needs and associated capital costs. The funds will also allow for the expansion of an existing aircraft parking apron to accommodate current demand at the airport and rehabilitates existing Runways 9/27 and 4/22 surfaces because they are in poor condition and are in need of repair. Florence: Florence Regional will receive $2,302,188 to assist in rehabilitating an airport apron and runway in addition to acquiring a handicapped passenger lift. The aircraft loading device for handicapped passengers will help ensure the airport is in compliance with the Air Carrier Access Act of 1986. Funds will also be used to rehabilitate Runway 1/19 pavement which is in poor condition in areas. #####
02.22.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Greenwood County Airport will receive a $150,000 grant for taxiway rehabilitation. The funds will be used for the rehabilitation of Taxiway D as it is in poor condition and in need of repair. This project will ensure enhanced safety of ground operations by aircraft using the taxiway at the airport. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Transportation. ####
02.16.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $580,000 in grants to fire departments in Dillon, Lyman, Olanta, Pageland, and Taylors. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The grants were awarded in one of three program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. Fire Prevention Program: The funds may be used for public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspector certification, the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland fire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection. The grants awarded include: Dillon Floyd Dale Rescue and Fire Department will receive a $172,800 Firefighting Vehicle Grant. Lyman Tyger River Fire Service Area will receive a $115,388 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Olanta Olanta Rural Fire Department will receive a $225,000 Firefighting Vehicle Grant. Pageland High Point Fire District will receive a $15,576 Fire Prevention Grant. Taylors Taylors Fire Department will receive a $60,185 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.14.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Mitford Rural Water District in Fairfield County will receive an $800,000 grant and $1.004 million loan. The funds will be used for an expansion to the current water system. The expansion consists of the construction of 241,000 feet of waterlines. The expansion adds an additional 32 users. When completed, the project will have 962 residential users and 25 other users. #####
02.10.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced over $4.8 million in grants to South Carolina airports. “Airports play a vital role in growing the local economy by making the area more attractive for economic development and business recruitment,” said Graham. “These grants are an investment in the future of our state.” Beaufort County Airport: Will receive $1,021,250 for construction of a partial parallel taxiway to accommodate general aviation and improve safety of aircraft operating at the airport. The project will also allow for the rehabilitation and expansion of the existing aircraft apron to maintain pavement investment, increase the existing aircraft parking area, and enhance aircraft operational safety. Conway-Horry County Airport: Will receive $150,000 to allow a second phase of perimeter fencing to be installed at the airport. Darlington County Jetport: Will receive $776,620 for a 500-foot extension. Funds will also be used to improve the current runway safety area to enhance safety to airport users. This project will provide for the relocation of an airport road to allow for recommended improvements to the apron area. Greenville Spartanburg International Airport: Will receive $2,690,695 for the construction of a new interstate interchange and rehabilitation of runway lighting. The new interchange will improve safety and capacity. The grant will provide for the widening of GSP Drive to provide a more efficient access road system. Replacement of existing problematic regulators in the airfield lighting vault will be accomplished in this grant. In addition, the emergency generator system will be replaced due to age and occurring failures. Lancaster County-Mc Whirter Field: Will receive $ 150,000 to rehabilitate the existing runway edge lighting system. North Myrtle Beach: Grand Strand Will receive $205,000 for the upgrading of existing airport airfield signage to increase airport safety Orangeburg Municipal Airport: Will receive $510,000 for the expansion of the existing apron area to accommodate increasing aircraft parking demand and safe ground operations. #####
02.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $400,000 in grants to fire departments in Anderson, Bennettsville, Boiling Springs, Columbia, Cope, Pacolet, and Pawleys Island. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Fire Prevention Program: The funds may be used for public education and awareness activities, fire code enforcement, fire inspector certification, the purchase and installation of smoke alarms and fire suppression systems, wildland fire mitigation, and arson prevention and detection. The grants awarded include: Anderson Flatrock Bowen Fire Department will receive a $57,610 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Bennettsville City of Bennettsville Fire Department will receive a $4,500 Fire Prevention Grant. Boiling Springs Boiling Springs Fire Department will receive a $61,015 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Columbia EdVenture Children’s Museum will receive a $36,103 Fire Prevention Grant. Cope Canaan Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $119,288 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Pacolet Pacolet Station Fire District will receive a $98,811 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Pawleys Island Midway Fire and Rescue will receive a $22,804 Fire Prevention Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.09.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today was joined with by a bipartisan group of Senators and Congressmen to introduce The Guard and Reserve Readiness and Retention Act of 2005. The legislation improves healthcare benefits for members of the National Guard and Reserves by allowing them to enroll in TRICARE for a monthly premium regardless of their activation status. TRICARE is the military healthcare system. In addition, the legislation provides for a decrease in retirement age based on years of service. Under current law, the retirement age is 60. Under the proposal, if an individual serves for 22 years, they are eligible for retirement at 59. An individual entering military service at 18 and serving for 34 years could begin receiving his or her retirement benefits at 53. “This reform package provides better health coverage and a fair retirement system that promotes retention,” said Graham, who serves as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and is a Colonel in the U.S. Air Force Reserves. “It will ensure that Guard and Reserve personnel and their families are justly compensated for their service. The increased demands placed on the men and women who serve this country in a part-time capacity require a modernization of their benefits. We must be sure to take care of every person who puts their life on the line to fight for liberty and freedom throughout the world.” “Guardsmen and Reservists are citizen-soldiers,” said Graham. “Increasingly they are being called up, taken away from their work and families, and being sent to far-away lands for long tours of duty. We need to ensure the benefits they are receiving are equal to the sacrifice they are making to protect our country and interests around the world.” “Now is the time to act,” said Graham. “There is momentum in Congress for improving Guard and Reserve benefits, and we need to continue to build on the progress we made last year. The ultimate goal is to provide these men and women with the option to enroll in TRICARE full time.” In October 2004, Graham worked with a bipartisan group of legislators to push into law additional health care benefits for members of the Guard and Reserve. Under that provision, Guardsmen and Reservists who serve on active duty under federal orders for 90 consecutive days will be eligible for one year of TRICARE coverage. For every additional 90 days of service they will be eligible for an additional year of health care coverage. The Department of Defense will pay 72 percent of the cost and the reservist will be responsible for paying the remaining 28 percent. Also included was a provision allowing Guardsmen and Reservists to become eligible for TRICARE upon receiving their activation orders and the ability to remain on the healthcare system for 180 days after they are deactivated. The provision applies to all members of the Guard and Reserve regardless of the length of time activated. “We’re going to continue pushing for better health care benefits for our citizen-soldiers,” said Graham. “The National Guard and Reserves have been called upon more often to help protect this country and defend American interests,” said Graham. “They are playing a vital role in Operation Iraqi Freedom and are an integral part of the war on terrorism. They need to be rewarded and justly compensated for their service to our nation.” ##### Guard and Reserve Readiness and Retention Act of 2005 This bipartisan legislation would promote recruitment, readiness, and retention by offering TRICARE eligibility to members of the Guard and Reserve for a modest monthly premium and by reducing the age at which a Reservist can receive retirement benefits based on his or her years of service. BILL PROVISIONS: RETIREMENT: Currently, Reservists and Guardsmen receive retirement benefits at age 60. With this legislation, however, for every two years of service over twenty, a Guardsman or Reservist would receive benefits one year earlier. For example, after 22 years of service, a member of the Reserve Component would receive benefits at age 59; after 24 years, age 58, and so on. This would promote retention at our most experienced levels of service. HEALTHCARE: Building on last year’s progress in the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005, this legislation would offer full-time TRICARE eligibility to members of the Reserve Component for a monthly premium. OUR SECURITY RELIES INCREASINGLY ON A STRONG RESERVE FORCE: The Reserves have played an integral role in every military operation since Desert Shield/Desert Storm. Their overall activity level, measured by annual duty days, has risen from about 1 million in the late 1980s to more than 12 million in every year since 1996. For example, the Reserves have taken charge of the entire peacekeeping mission in the Balkans. In Iraq, Guard and Reserve troops have rotated with active-duty forces, increasing their share of the total U.S. force to about 40 percent. DISPARITY BETWEEN RESERVISTS AND OTHER “PART-TIME” FEDERAL EMPLOYEES New part-time federal employees hired into permanent positions may join the Federal Employees Health Benefits Plan (FEHBP) at the start of their employment by paying a higher premium. In addition, a part-time federal employee must work a minimum of 16 hours per week to be eligible for healthcare while Reservists, who receive only conditional healthcare until activated, are required to work one weekend per month, two weeks per year, AND be prepared to deploy. We are asking that this disparity be corrected by offering Reservists the same options as other “part-time” federal employees. THE RESERVES FACE A RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION CRISIS: “This is the first extended?duration war our nation has fought with an all?volunteer force,” said [Lt. General James R.] Helmly. “We must be sensitive to that. And we must apply proactive, preventive measures to prevent a recruiting?retention crisis.” [Wash. Post, 01/21/04] “The Army National Guard is 15,000 soldiers below its normal strength and is hoping to make up the difference by September. Last month, the Guard met 56% of its monthly recruiting goal.” [Los Angeles Times, 02/03/05] “Given this implementation (DOD’s current mobilization scheme), DOD could eventually run out of forces.” [General Accounting Office, GAO-05-285T, released 2005] National Guard and Reserve Issues in the News Houston Chronicle January 2, 2005 “With reservists accounting for 40 percent of the U.S. force in Iraq - a percentage expected to slightly increase this year - the National Guard is struggling. It fell about 7,000 soldiers short in 2003 of the 56,000 soldiers needed to maintain a 350,000-soldier force. Last year, the Guard was 10,000 soldiers short and facing an even bigger recruiting goal, 63,000 this year.” Los Angeles Times January 6, 2005 “Given the demands that the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have placed on men and women who had planned on being part-time soldiers, the Army Reserve is "in grave danger of being unable to meet other operational requirements" and is "rapidly degenerating into a 'broken' force," [Lt. Gen. James R.] Helmly wrote. I do not wish to sound alarmist. I do wish to send a clear, distinctive signal of deepening concern," Helmly said.” Washington Post February 3, 2005 “Massing enough troops for another rotation in Iraq will be ‘painful’ and may eventually require the Pentagon to adopt policies that would extend the two-year limit on the mobilization of reserves, a senior Army leader told Congress yesterday. Right now we have 650,000 soldiers on active duty executing missions worldwide, and many of them have met their 24-month cumulative time, so we'll have to address this," Gen. Richard A. Cody testified before the House Armed Services Committee. Yesterday's testimony underscored a debate brewing in the Pentagon over how to meet the long-term demands of the war on terrorism. The Pentagon now limits reserves to a total of 24 months of active duty, but the Army is considering seeking an extension to allow for longer and more frequent deployments of reservists.” Army Times January 17, 2005 “The Army Reserve has about 200,000 soldiers, and since Sept. 11, 2001, has deployed 65,000 in the global war on terrorism, mainly in Iraq, where it accounts for about 40 percent of all U.S. forces. Meanwhile, a published report said Army leaders want the authority to order some Army Reserve and National Guard soldiers to serve longer and more frequent deployments. The proposed policy would be contingent on making permanent what is supposed to be a temporary increase of 30,000 troops to the active component.”
02.03.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today joined with Senator Charles Schumer (D-New York) to introduce legislation placing a 27.5 percent tariff on all Chinese goods entering the United States. The tariff legislation is in response to China’s decision to continue pegging their currency at a rate of 8.28 yuan to $1 American dollar. “It’s pretty simple – China cheats,” said Graham. “They artificially peg their currency below its true value making their goods cheaper. “Words alone will not change China's behavior,” said Graham. “We've talked this issue to death. It is now time to act.” Economists have estimated the yuan may be undervalued by 15 to 40 percent. China intentionally lowers their currency's value making their goods and services cheap internationally. When Chinese manufacturers export a product, it receives a 15 percent to 40 percent discount which provides them with a nearly insurmountable advantage over U.S. producers. “It’s not about being outworked, or being smarter than the American worker, it’s really about American companies fighting the Chinese government,” said Graham. “I think most American consumers want to make sure that American businesses are protected.” “This is a common ground between Republicans and Democrats, supported by the American manufacturing community,” said Graham. “It’s my belief that if the bill goes to the floor of the U.S. Senate, it will pass.” “The Schumer-Graham legislation gives China ample time to make the necessary, structural changes to the valuation of their currency,” said Graham. “If China wants to be part of the international community, it’s time for them to clean up their act. Until they are reigned in and start playing by the rules, our manufacturing industry will continue to bleed jobs because of unfair Chinese trade practices.” “We need to have a policy of engagement with China that is serious across the board,” said Graham. “Intellectual property theft, manipulating currency, transshipping goods -- there is a variety of activities they engage in that are costing us jobs in the United States. We need to address all of these issues. The tariff bill is a good way to get the Chinese’s attention and show them we are very serious about their cheating.” ##### Summary of the Legislation The legislation helps American workers by addressing the growing problem of China's deliberate undervaluing of its currency to gain an unfair trade advantage. It encourages negotiation with China to level the playing field so that China's goods compete at their true market value. The legislation reduces the export advantage provided by China's unfairly and illegally undervalued currency. After a six-month negotiation period between the US and China, if such negotiations are not successful, the amendment would institute a 27.5 percent tariff on all China's exports to the United States that is symmetrical to China's currency advantage. Most economists estimate China's currency is undervalued between 15 percent and 40 percent; 27.5 percent is at the midpoint of that range. This tariff would apply across the board to products from China and would lay on top of any current tariffs that may apply. If the President determines after 6 months that China is making significant progress towards revaluing its currency, he may delay imposition of the tariff for another 6 months. At the end of the second 6 months, if the President determines that China has developed and started actual implementation of a plan to revalue its currency, he may delay imposition of the tariff for another 12 months. Provides the President with the authority to remove the tariff. The President could remove the tariff once he certifies to Congress that China has agreed to substantially revalue its currency upwards to "at or near its fair market value." The legislation does not specify that China adopt a free floating currency, which many argue could further destabilize the Chinese banking system. Establishes a reasonable time period for negotiations. The legislation authorizes sanctions to begin 180 days after enactment, which allows the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the US Trade Representative, and others a full six months to work with the Chinese Government to institute currency reforms. Works within the framework of international trade laws. Article XXI of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade allows a member of the World Trade Organization to take "any action which it considers necessary for the protection of its essential security interests," particularly "in time of war or other emergency in international relations". Our nation's manufacturing capability is a vital national interest and we believe it is threatened by China's unfair currency practices.
02.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $430,000 in grants to fire departments in Clover, Lake City, and Norway. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Clover Bethel Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $52,193 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Lake City South Lynches Fire Department will receive a $212,911 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Norway Norway Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $166,500 Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
02.02.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement: “The bold vision President Bush laid out in his second Inaugural Address continued tonight in the State of the Union. His message serves as a challenge to the Congress and nation to maintain resolve in the face of serious domestic and international problems. “The President has clearly shown the Congress and American people that it is now time for problem solving, not political posturing. I hope the Congress will rise to the occasion and work with him making our nation more secure both at home and abroad. On Foreign Policy: “The recent successful elections in Iraq and Afghanistan have shown us that freedom is the best antidote to terror. “The President’s request for patience and determination, in terms of our commitment to the war on terror, is well-founded. I hope Congress will heed his counsel. On Social Security: “The President’s focus on Social Security as a national problem demonstrates his willingness to lead where others have chosen to demagogue. We can save and protect the most successful domestic program in history if we act soon. If we delay, the impact of the demographic tidal wave looming on the horizon will swamp our children and grandchildren with a massive amount of debt. “President Bush is correct in pointing out there are no easy solutions. It’s going to require the President, Congress and American people to make some painful choices and some level of sacrifice. It is clear that he is willing to work in a bipartisan manner to find solutions to save the system from impending bankruptcy. “In 1983, President Reagan and Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill worked together across party lines to protect Social Security — setting an example for future generations and one we should follow now. “Social Security must be preserved and strengthened. But we need to be candid about the costs and willing to make the tough choices that real reform will require. If we can agree on this, we can save a vital program for generations to come.” #####
02.01.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – On the heels of the Graniteville accident, one of the worst rail disasters in recent history, U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today introduced bipartisan legislation dealing with the transportation of hazardous materials by rail and securing safe passage over rail crossings. Graham introduced the legislation with U.S. Senator Charles Schumer (D-NY). “South Carolina has learned all-too-well the dangers of railway accidents, particularly those involving toxic chemicals and freight,” said Graham. “This is an issue that needs to be addressed in a bipartisan manner and I’m pleased to work with my colleague on this endeavor. I look forwarded to working with all parties as we improve rail safety in our nation.” According to statistics from the Federal Railroad Administration’s (FRA) website, 87 South Carolinians have lost their lives in the period January 1999 until October 2004 in rail accidents. Nationally, 4,689 people have lost their lives in rail accidents over the same period. Major provisions of the legislation include: Raising the minimum fine for violations when transporting hazardous material from $550 to $5000 and raising the maximum fine for gross negligence from $27,500 to $2.5 million. Requiring the FRA to conduct a one-year national review of rail infrastructure still using manual switches to determine areas where automatic switches should be installed. Every fifteen years, each rail car must be taken out of use, inspected, and repaired to meet federal code and ensure its safety before being put back in use. All cars currently in use fifteen years or older must be inspected and brought up to code. Requiring FRA to submit a report to Congress in the next year making recommendations as to the safe distance between cars transporting hazardous materials. Requiring FRA to conduct a comprehensive safety review of all 250,000 rail crossings in the United States. FRA will also create a list of 10,000 crossings most in need of safety improvement and Congress will authorize funding to the states for upgrades. Empowering state hazardous materials (HAZMAT) inspectors to take cars out of circulation when they deem it necessary. Require railroad companies to submit a crossing malfunction report within 5 days to the FRA. Each additional day will result in a $5,000 fine. “We must address the safety problems facing our national rail system,” said Graham. “My goal is to create a collaborative process working with the rail industry which allows us to learn from our mistakes, reduce future mishaps, and protect public safety. Our legislation focuses on improving railway crossings and track switching mechanisms, container design, and a variety of other issues important to the public.” “The winning combination will be a collaborative process between the government and industry that leads to safety improvements in an affordable manner,” said Graham. #####
01.31.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) made the following statement on the elections in Iraq. "By any measure, the recent Iraqi election was historic. The successful election helps create momentum for positive change in the Middle East. “The big winner was the concept of democracy. The big loser was radical terrorists. Osama Bin Laden and Abu Musab al-Zarqawi's vision for Iraq was soundly defeated. “This election success was made possible by the sacrifices of American men and women in uniform along with our coalition partners. The Iraqi people have also shown bravery in the face of tyranny and have made a giant leap forward in securing their own freedom. “This election also serves as a reminder to Americans that democracy is something to be cherished.” #####
01.31.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Low Country Health Care System, Inc. in Fairfax will receive a $650,000 grant to assist in providing primary, obstetrical, gynecological, and other specialty healthcare services to the surrounding area. Low Country Health Care System also has clinics in Allendale, Barnwell, and Blackville. Community Health Center grants are designed to promote the development and operation of community-based primary health care service systems in medically underserved areas. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. ####
01.28.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the South Carolina Public Service Authority (SCPSA) has been awarded a grant for $1,979,507.25 to restore the Jeffries Hydroelectric Dam. Strong winds from Tropical Storm Gaston damaged the dam which is located on the southeast side of Lake Moultrie near Moncks Corner. The grant will provide for strengthening the 75-foot earthen dam with armored stone and fine filter aggregate. Five hundred feet of chain link fence will also be replaced. The total cost of this restoration project is $2,639.343. The total 75 percent federal share is $1,979,507.25. State and local governments will share the other 25 percent of the cost. The grant is from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). #####
01.26.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Bolentown Volunteer Fire Department in Orangeburg will receive a $175,500 firefighting vehicle grant. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
01.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHIINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on Strom Thurmond, Jr. Today is Thurmond's last day as the U.S. Attorney for South Carolina. “Strom Thurmond Jr. has been an outstanding U.S. Attorney for South Carolina. He’s been one of the best U.S. Attorney’s in our state’s history and deserves much credit for a job well-done. “Strom earned the admiration of career prosecutors and federal law enforcement officers by showing a maturity and understanding of the law that will be the standard for future office holders. “He more than answered his critics and leaves the office in great shape. He will be missed.” ####
01.20.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement: “Today is a chance for all of us to celebrate the fact we have a long-standing tradition of peaceful transfers of power. There are countless countries in the world that would dream of having a day like this. “In his second term, President Bush has a chance to take on domestic and foreign policy problems that will set the tone for this century. “Reforming Social Security is a big item on his agenda. The president is right when he says it’s a system in need of repair. It’s important we make the tough choices today to ensure Social Security is there for future generations of Americans. “The President is also right when he says that our security is also dependent on other parts of the world being free. We’ve seen from 9-11 that if you have regimes allowing terrorists to thrive, we will pay a price. Our goal in this century is to ensure liberty can be spread. Freedom around the world helps make us more secure. “This will be a bold second term by President Bush and I look forward to helping him strengthen America.” #####
01.19.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $340,000 in grants to fire departments in Gaston, Neeses, and St. Matthews. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The grants were awarded in one of two program areas: Operations and Firefighter Safety Program: The funds may be used for training, wellness, and fitness programs; the purchase of firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and modifications to fire stations and facilities. Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Program: The funds may be used for the purchase of firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Gaston Gaston Fire Department will receive a $13,950 Operations and Firefighter Safety Grant. Neeses Neeses Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $166,500 Firefighting Vehicle Grant. St. Matthews Belleville Volunteer Fire Department will receive a $162,000 Firefighting Vehicle Grant. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
01.13.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Benedict College will receive a $95,000 University Center Program Grant to assist in economic development within predominantly minority communities. The funds will be used to provide technical assistance and applied research to minority owned businesses in Allendale, Bamberg, Calhoun, Clarendon, Fairfield, Hampton, Jasper, Lee, Marion, and Williamsburg counties. The grant, awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce, will be matched by a $95,000 contribution from Benedict College. ####
01.12.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced the Columbia Fire Department will receive a $175,398 firefighting grant. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grant will help the fire department improve their training, wellness and fitness programs; purchase new firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and, make modifications to fire stations and facilities. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
01.10.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Five Rivers Community Development Corporation in Georgetown will receive a $994,100 economic development special project grant. The funds will be used for economic development and affordable housing. The money was appropriated in the Fiscal Year 2005 Omnibus Appropriations Bill. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. ####
01.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced DESA, Inc. in Columbia has been awarded a $240,599 grant to support its Minority Business Development Center. The Center provides business development services to socially or economically disadvantaged firms and individuals entering, expanding, or maintaining their efforts in the competitive marketplace. The grant was awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. ####
01.06.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the train accident in Graniteville. “My thoughts and prayers go out to those who have been adversely affected by this accident. “I also want to thank all of those who are giving their time and talent in assistance to the local community trying to recover from this accident. My office will continue to work to ensure they have all the tools they need available to them. “My office remains in contact with federal officials responsible for looking into and determining the cause of this accident. I look forward to hearing from those officials to ensure we take the necessary steps to prevent another accident from occurring again in the future. “The congressional delegation will continue to monitor this situation and will stand ready to offer additional assistance if the need arises.” #####
01.05.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced Clemson University has been awarded a three-year cooperative agreement with the U.S. Department of Energy to conduct nuclear energy research and development. This year, Clemson will receive $289,000 to conduct research. Over the next three years, the project has the potential to bring more than $800,000 to Clemson. The award was announced by the U.S. Department of Energy. ####
01.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the swearing-in of fellow U.S. Senator Jim DeMint (R-South Carolina). “Jim is a great addition to the Senate. I think we’ll be good partners working together to move the conservative reform movement forward. He comes with years of experience in the House of Representatives and will hit the ground running. “The committees Jim will serve on, particularly the Commerce Committee and the Public Works Committee, will be of great benefit to South Carolina. Between the two of us, our committees will cover a wide variety of issues and we’ll be helpful to our state. “Jim’s a solid conservative who is open to new ideas about reforming the federal government. I really look forward to serving with him. He’s a first-class guy and a great public servant.” #####
01.04.2005	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the President’s efforts to strengthen Social Security. "President Bush is serious about saving Social Security. "I have every confidence he will make the tough choices necessary to save Social Security for future generations of Americans. We should all be very proud of him for his leadership on this most difficult issue. "I will continue to work with the President and others in developing a personal account component to Social Security that is structurally sound, affordable, doesn't rely on budgetary gimmicks, and bipartisan in nature. Personal accounts, combined with other reforms, will ensure Social Security is permanently solvent and sustainable. "Personal accounts are a major element in Social Security reform and the establishment of these accounts will help millions of Americans build a nest egg for their retirement. "The President's leadership in advocating the need for reform is indispensable. I look forward to working with him and others to turn Social Security reform into reality." #####
12.31.2004	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) Trying to follow legends like Fritz Hollings and Strom Thurmond is a tough act. South Carolinians have relied on these two great gentlemen for generations. Fritz Hollings’ retirement is truly an end of an era, and he will be missed by the United States Senate and South Carolina. In paying tribute to Senator Hollings, I first want to recognize the most important people in his life: his wife Peatsy, his children and grandchildren. The Hollings family has been a great benefit to South Carolina and there is no better way to be introduced to our State than to meet Peatsy Hollings. If you had to create an image of a Senator, Fritz Hollings would be the model. He looks, acts, and sounds like a Senator. Senator Hollings has served his state and nation well both during war and peace. In 1942 he graduated from the Citadel as part of a class that received their diplomas in the morning and went off to fight a war the next day. He fought in North Africa and Europe receiving the Bronze Star and seven campaign ribbons. If Senator Hollings had done nothing else in life, this would have been an outstanding legacy. At the age of 26, he was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives. He went on to become Lieutenant Governor and the youngest Governor in South Carolina history at the time. As Governor, Hollings let it be known that South Carolina would be a government of laws, not men. He challenged our state to accept the inevitable and led the way to the successful integration of Clemson University in 1963. During his Governorship he created our technical school system, which is among the best in the nation. We have thousands of South Carolinians receiving college level education through our technical schools. We have 16 technical colleges now, over 160 career programs and high-tech professionals who have made it possible for major domestic and international business concerns to come to our state. In 1966, he was elected to the U.S. Senate. Senator Hollings’ legislative accomplishments are numerous and varied. His efforts to preserve South Carolina’s environment, particularly our coastal zones, have had national impact. The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 was the first federal legislation that addressed the needs of coastal areas in the United States. This earned Hollings “Environmentalist of the Year” standing from nearly every group in the nation. In 1976, Hollings’ Ocean Dumping Act and the Maritime Transportation Act changed the way we treat our coastlines as a nation. The coastline of South Carolina and every other coast in the United States will be the beneficiary of his time in the Senate. The first and only national park in South Carolina, Congaree Swamp, was approved a year ago. This accomplishment, along with the ACE Basin project will ensure that future generations of South Carolinians will experience the South Carolina that Fritz Hollings knew as a young man. Senator Hollings was talking about preserving social security and reducing deficits before it was fashionable. Gramm-Rudman-Hollings was an attempt in the 1980s to bring fiscal sanity to the Congress, and has paid dividends to this day. Senator Hollings has been a strong advocate for improved health care and fighting poverty in South Carolina. The Hollings Cancer Institute at MUSC is a direct result of his efforts to provide world class cancer research and treatment to thousands of South Carolinians. I intend to build upon what Senator Hollings has started at MUSC and the possibilities for healthcare breakthroughs are immense. In conclusion, Senator Hollings has been a worthy political opponent, a strong advocate for South Carolina, and truly a larger than life figure on the political stage. He has an unsurpassed wit, sharp tongue, and for those who know him best, a big heart. He and his staff have been tremendously kind and helpful during my first two years in the United States Senate, and for that I will be forever grateful. I have been honored to call him my senior Senator and wish Fritz and Peatsy all the best in their future endeavors. They have truly served South Carolina well. ####
12.30.2004	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $65,000 in grants to fire departments in Smyrna and Westminster. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The Assistance to Firefighters Grants will help the fire departments improve their training, wellness and fitness programs; purchase new firefighting equipment and personal protective equipment; and, make modifications to fire stations and facilities. Smyrna Smyrna Volunteer Fire Department will receive $19,116. Westminster Westminster Fire Department will receive $47,565. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
12.23.2004	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) With a renewed debate over the future of Social Security underway, Republicans and Democrats alike need to begin by setting aside our differences and focusing on the common ground between us. As two policymakers — one from each party — who have been committed to the well-being of Social Security throughout our careers, we have agreed that the following principles should guide our deliberations going forward: Where to start First, Social Security must be preserved. Since its inception in 1935, the program has provided a basic safety net for Americans. Millions of workers pay into the Social Security system with the expectation of receiving a benefit at retirement, as well as insurance for their family in the event of their death or disability. According to the Social Security Administration, two-thirds of today's retirees rely on Social Security for more than half of their income. And nearly 50% of beneficiaries would be in poverty without Social Security. Second, it is also clear that Social Security must be strengthened. The demographic tidal wave of the baby-boom generation will mean we will soon have too many beneficiaries and too few workers to keep the system in balance. By 2018, for the first time, the program will begin to take in less in payroll taxes than it pays in benefits. And by 2042, it is estimated that Social Security will be able to provide only 73% of promised benefits. Doing nothing is not an option. Third, strengthening Social Security will require tough choices and, if done in a responsible manner, can greatly improve our nation's fiscal outlook. Acting sooner will give us more time to adjust and allow for more gradual solutions to be adopted. But there are no easy answers. To address Social Security's funding challenges, all options should be on the table for discussion. Under some reform plans, transition costs could reach several trillion dollars during the next 10 years. Borrowing all of those funds would pass on an unfair burden to future generations and could undermine the fiscal strength of the nation. Fourth, the costs of changing Social Security must be open and transparent. The American people need to be provided with an honest accounting of the costs of maintaining the current system and the costs of reform. If private accounts (either on top of or carved out of the existing program) are created, real dollars will be required now that will have a very real impact on a federal budget that is already deeply in deficit. Proposals to conceal the costs of reform by placing them "off budget" — ignoring or minimizing the real and upfront fiscal impact — should be rejected. If the corporate scandals have taught us anything, it is that hiding debt is a recipe for disaster. The public must be aware of the difficult trade-offs among benefit cuts, tax increases and additional borrowing that will be required regardless of how we strengthen the system. And they must be aware of the impact of these reforms on the federal budget, the economy and individual beneficiaries and taxpayers — in the short term and over the long term. A bipartisan approach In 1983, President Reagan and Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill worked together across party lines to protect Social Security — setting an example for future generations. We need to do the same thing now. A solution must be bipartisan; presidential leadership will be needed; rigid ideology must give way to workable solutions; and reasonable sacrifice will be required. Both parties have been far too hesitant to ask the American people to make sacrifices for the common good. It is our belief that the American people, if asked in a responsible manner, will embrace the hard choices necessary to save Social Security for younger workers and future generations. It is time to address this problem. Social Security must be preserved and strengthened. But we need to be candid about the costs and willing to make the tough choices that real reform will require. If Republicans and Democrats can agree on this, we can save a vital program for generations to come. Sen. Kent Conrad is a Democrat from North Dakota. Sen. Lindsey Graham is a Republican from South Carolina
12.22.2004	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced over $2.1 million in grants to Marlboro County, a local water company in Wallace and local Council of Governments (COGs) across the state. Marlboro County will receive $1.184 million to help rebuild 4.2 miles of rail corridor. Funding will be used for building and replacing rail crossings as well as replacing rails. The Wallace Water Company in Wallace will receive $459,000 to help expand a water line for business use. The improved infrastructure will allow for future economic growth and development in the area. Council of Government (COG) organizations across the state will each receive $52,000 grants to assist in their industrial plans. The COGs receiving grants include: Lower Savannah Council of Governments in Aiken Central Midlands Council of Governments in Columbia Waccamaw Regional Planning and Development Commission in Georgetown South Carolina Appalachian Council of Governments in Greenville Upper Savannah Council of Governments in Greenwood Berkeley-Charleston-Dorchester Council of Governments in North Charleston Catawba Regional Planning Council in Rock Hill Santee-Lynches Regional Council of Governments in Sumter Lowcountry Council of Governments in Yemassee The Pee Dee Regional Council of Governments in Florence will receive $59,500. The grants were awarded by the U.S. Department of Commerce. #####
12.22.2004	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON – U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) has secured a seat on the prestigious Senate Budget Committee in the 109th Congress set to begin in January. The Budget Committee is responsible for drafting Congress' annual budget plan and monitoring action on the budget for the federal government. In addition, the Budget Committee has jurisdiction over the operation of the Congressional Budget Office (CBO). The budget resolution prepared by the committee each year sets out a broad blueprint for total revenues and spending for the federal government. Other authorizing and appropriations committees prepare legislation that enacts specific tax and spending policies. In the 108th Congress, U.S. Senator Ernest “Fritz” Hollings (D-South Carolina) served on the committee. He was the only U.S. Senator to serve on the Senate Budget Committee since its establishment in 1974. In addition to Budget, Graham will continue to serve on the Armed Services, Judiciary and Veterans Affairs Committees. He will relinquish his slot on the Health, Education, Labor & Pensions Committee (HELP). “The Budget Committee is on the ground floor in the fight to save Social Security for future generations,” said Graham. “It also plays a very important role in shaping the tax and spending policies of the federal government. Given the agenda items I want to see addressed in the Senate in the coming years, it’s a very good place to be.” #####
12.17.2004	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today made the following statement on the announcement of workforce reductions at Savannah River Site (SRS): “As I’ve indicated in the past, the force levels at SRS will inevitably be reduced as we move toward completion of the cleanup mission. “The layoffs are a result of the workload being reduced as we transition from cleanup to preparing for new missions – not a lack of federal funding for SRS. The Fiscal Year 2005 budget for SRS allows all existing projects to move forward -- some ahead of schedule -- in the area of cleanup. It also keeps the future development of new missions on track. “There will be more layoffs as we clean up the Site and the future missions will not be sufficient to maintain the current level of employment. Now more than ever, it is important we diversify the economy of the region. I’m hopeful we can create a new private sector-based economy focusing on hydrogen and other research projects leading to a robust and stable economy for the area for decades to come. “New missions such as MOX, combined with SRS’s new status as a national laboratory, will create some future employment opportunities -- many of them in the private sector. “However, all the new potential missions and the on-going cleanup efforts, will not be sufficient to maintain the current level of employment. It is a hard reality we face post Cold-War and a fact I have stated on numerous occasions. Post-Cold War, SRS’s employment levels will never be what they were and will continue to decline even as new missions come on board. “This dynamic is a hard reality. It’s something we need to continue preparing for and why the national lab is so important to the future of the area. ####
12.15.2004	Wes Hickman (202-224-5972) or Kevin Bishop (864-250-1417) WASHINGTON -- U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham (R-South Carolina) today announced more than $445,000 in grants to fire departments in Moncks Corner, Orangeburg, and Plum Branch. “Firefighters risk their lives to protect others, and they deserve the best equipment and training available,” said Graham. “Firefighters are some of the heroes in our midst.” The Firefighting Vehicle Acquisition Grants help fire departments purchase firefighting vehicles including pumpers, brush trucks, tankers, rescue vehicles, ambulances, quints, aerials, foam units, and fireboats. The grants awarded include: Moncks Corner Pimlico Rural Volunteer Fire Department will receive $88,830. Orangeburg Pine Hill Fire and Rescue Department will receive $196,515. Plum Branch Plum Branch Volunteer Fire Department will receive $162,000. The Assistance to Firefighters grant program awards one-year grants directly to local fire departments, enhancing their ability to respond to fire and fire-related hazards in the community. The program supports departments by providing them the tools and resources necessary to protect the health and safety of the public and their firefighting personnel. Grantees share in the cost of the funded project at a percentage based on the population of their respective jurisdiction. Grantees that serve jurisdictions of 50,000 or fewer residents are required to provide a non-Federal cost-share of 10 percent while grantees that serve jurisdictions of over 50,000 provide a 30 percent cost-share. The match must be in cash without the use of in-kind contributions. In addition, the maximum amount of federal funds that an applicant can be awarded is $750,000 during any fiscal year. The grants are made by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. ####
