04.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) joined the majority of the House Budget Committee in voting to advance the Investing for the People Act to the House floor. The bill, which received vigorous support from Congressman Boyle, protects numerous government programs critical for middle class families by raising budget caps. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon the advancement of the legislation: “The Budget Committee took a critical step today by advancing responsible legislation to enact a fiscal framework that charts a course for a prosperous future that lifts up all Americans. If we want our economy to grow, if we want people’s wages to rise, and if we want to level the playing field for hardworking families, we need to invest in the programs that make that possible. The current budget caps keep one hand tied behind our backs. By lifting these caps, we can chart a path for investments in the programs that enable access to opportunity across the country. If this bill does not become law and our budget caps aren’t raised, the result will be simply devastating for our economy: students, seniors, middle class families, the list goes on.” Well-known programs paid for by discretionary spending include the early childhood education program Head Start, Title I grants to disadvantaged schools, Pell grants for low-income college students, food assistance for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), and scientific research through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and National Science Foundation (NSF), among many others. Congressman Boyle is a member of the House Budget Committee and the House Ways and Means Committee. ###
04.04.2019	Washington, DC – Today, co-chairs of the New Democrat Coalition National Security Task Force, Reps. Brad Schneider (IL-10), Anthony Brown (MD-04), Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02), and Abigail Spanberger (VA-07) released the following statement recognizing the 70th anniversary of the signing of the North Atlantic Treaty: “Today marks the seven-decade anniversary of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization – history’s most important, most successful military and political alliance. Emerging from the devastation of World War II, this vital partnership formed the foundation for the decades of peace and prosperity that followed, both in Europe and here in the United States. As we turn to the future and face an increasingly aggressive Russia, the NATO alliance remains just as critical today as ever to ensure our security and defense. The New Democrat Coalition remains steadfast in support of our collective defense commitment to our NATO allies and looks forward to strengthening this alliance for years to come.” ###
04.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) issued the following statement commemorating today’s 70th anniversary of the formation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Last week, Congressman Boyle led the United States delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for its Spring Standing Committee Meeting in Zagreb, Croatia, which included a celebration of the anniversary. Boyle was selected to the post by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. “I’m thrilled to celebrate NATO’s 70th Anniversary today. The alliance is essential to the national security and economic prosperity of the United States and our allies It has endured nearly a century despite continuous attacks from those threatened by western democracies, and most recently President Trump. I was proud to lead the U.S. delegation of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for its meeting last week. In Congress and as a member of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I will continue to focus on strengthening U.S. ties to other member countries and reaffirming our commitment to the alliance so it can endure for generations to come.” The NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg addressed a Joint Meeting of Congress on Wednesday, April 3rd. ###
04.03.2019	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02), a member of the Ways and Means Committee, released the following statement after Committee Chairman Richard Neal submitted a formal written request to Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner Charles Rettig for six years of President Donald J. Trump’s personal and business tax returns: "President Trump is the first president since Richard Nixon to choose not to disclose his tax returns. Congress is a co-equal branch of government and it is our constitutional duty to provide oversight of departments and officials, including the IRS and the president. This is not about politics. This is about bringing a shred of transparency to the highest office in the land. The public deserves no less. I thank Chairman Neal for his thoughtful leadership formally requesting President Trump’s personal and business tax returns for the past six years. I hope the president puts the public first for once and fully complies with this legal request.” ###
04.03.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement announcing that U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded $1,069,779 in federal funding to the Einstein Healthcare Network. The funding will support Einstein’s community-based efforts to decrease maternal and infant mortality rates, especially among people of color. “Infant and maternal mortality rates are unacceptably high in America, especially among people of color. Greater research and awareness, and a holistic, community-based approach are essential to turning the tide on this tragic trend. Philadelphia’s Einstein Healthcare Network is well positioned to do exactly that. I am proud to see Einstein working to give mothers and babies their best chance at a long, healthy life, and I will keep fighting to support this important work on Congress.” The funding comes from the Health Resources and Services Administration’s Healthy Start program. In Congress, Congressman Boyle is fighting to fully fund the program in the next fiscal year. ###
04.02.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) joined the Ways and Means Committee to advance three bills to the House floor that support America’s workers. The SECURE Act, a variant of the Retirement Enhancement and Savings Act which Congressman Boyle cosponsors, would improve retirement security for Americans who work at small businesses. The BRIDGE for Workers Act would help unemployed Americans access re-employment services. Finally, the Taxpayer First Act, which Congressman Boyle also cosponsors, would make it easier for taxpayers to get their questions answered by the IRS and give them additional protections in the collections process. Upon advancement of the bills, Congressman Boyle released the following statement: “I’m proud to join the Ways and Means Committee to advance three bills so critical for working families. These bills illustrate the Democratic Majority's committment to expanding opportunity and making the system work for the people. I am proud to serve on a committee that allows me to champion theese issues for the City of Philadelphia” All three bills may now move to the House floor for consideration by the full chamber. Congressman Boyle is a member of the Select Revenue Measures, Social Security, and Oversight subcommittees of the House Ways and Means Committee. ###
03.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement announcing the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ $236,146 federal funding award for Fox Chase Cancer Center for pancreatic cancer research. “Pancreatic cancer remains one of the deadliest cancers we face, with only 20% of patients surviving one year and only 7% surviving five. I commend Fox Chase Cancer Center for their dedication to fighting this and many other deadly diseases. I’m proud to represent Fox Chase, an organization that is both a fixture of our Philadelphia community and a worldwide leader in cancer research and treatment. In Congress, I will continue doing all I can to help Fox Chase with its admirable mission.” The funding comes from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Cancer Institute. ###
03.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) and Congressman John Rutherford (FL-04) are pleased to announce that they will serve as co-chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Lung Cancer Caucus for the 116th Congress. The group’s membership included 37 representatives from both sides of the aisle in the 115th Congress. “A quarter million Americans are newly diagnosed with lung cancer each year, 80% of whom never smoked or quit over a decade ago. Yet, the incredible stigma of lung cancer remains, hurting research, treatment, and ultimately patient survival,” said Congressman Boyle. “As Co-Chair of the Lung Cancer Caucus, I am committed to breaking down this stigma, advocating for those affected by this cruel disease, and finally getting the resources we need to bring lung cancer to an end.” “Serving as Co-Chair of the Lung Cancer Caucus provides an opportunity to advocate for greater awareness and the pursuit of solutions to end one of the most common cancers worldwide,” said Congressman Rutherford. “I have met many constituents whose lives have been affected by this terrible disease and seen firsthand how important it is to find an end to lung cancer. I am honored to help lead this critical effort and look forward to achieving meaningful legislative successes to reduce the impact of lung cancer in 2019 and beyond.” “We are thrilled to maintain this important platform in the new Congress to continue to raise awareness and educate Members and staff on issues of lung cancer early detection and research needs,” said Laurie Fenton Ambrose, President & CEO of Lung Cancer Alliance. “Thank you Congressman Boyle and Congressman Rutherford for being our Caucus Co-Chairs and champions as we move forward in the 116th Congress.” Lung cancer is the second most common cancer and is a leading cause of death in the United States. Each year more people die of lung cancer than colon, breast, and prostate cancer combined. The Lung Cancer Caucus helps educate and inform Members of Congress on issues specifically related to eliminating the stigma, reducing mortality, improving survivorship, furthering research, and ensuring equitable access to preventive screening, treatments, diagnostics and testing of lung cancer. ###
03.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement following his introduction of H.Res.249 opposing the reported Russian interference in the upcoming election in Ukraine on March 31, 2019. The resolution was introduced with the bipartisan Congressional Ukrainian Caucus Co-Chairs: Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-1), Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Congressman Andy Harris (MD-1), and Congressman Mike Quigley (IL-5). “The reports that the Russian government is interfering in Ukraine’s upcoming elections are nothing short of disturbing. Vladimir Putin continues to escalate his illegal war in Ukraine, now attacking the most central function of their democracy. The United States must stand strong with our ally, Ukraine, and ensure its sovereignty is preserved. Every democracy deserves and requires to oversee free and fair elections without foreign interference. Ukraine is no different. This resolution sends a strong message to Putin – enough is enough in Ukraine.” Last month, Ukrainian security officials accused the Russian government of meddling in Ukraine’s electoral process. Ukraine is set to hold presidential elections on March 31, 2019 and parliamentary elections in the Fall of 2019. In 2014, three days before Ukraine’s last presidential election, a Russia-based hacker group took down the country’s election commission in an overnight attack. Even a back-up system was taken down, but Ukrainian computer experts were able to restore the system before election day. Ukrainian police say they arrested hackers who were trying to rig the results. The attack was aimed at creating chaos and hurting the nationalist candidate while helping the pro-Russian candidate. Congressman Boyle has been an outspoken advocate for robust U.S.-Ukraine relations since elected to Congress. His Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act became law as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. The bill encouraged cooperation between the United States and Ukraine on matters of cybersecurity and required State Department reporting to Congress on best practices to protect against future cyberattacks. He has also been honored as a “Distinguished Friend of Ukraine” by the Ukrainian National Information Service. ###
03.14.2019	Representatives Brendan Boyle, Paul Mitchell, Debbie Dingell, and Steve Stivers, Co-Chairs of the Congressional Caucus on Macedonia and Macedonian-Americans issued the following statement on the signing of a NATO Accession Agreement for Macedonia in Brussels: “Those of us who are staunch supporters and friends of Macedonia and the Macedonian-American community have long awaited the NATO Protocol Signing, and look forward to Macedonia and the Macedonian people finally taking their well-deserved place as the thirtieth member-state of NATO at the London Summit in December of this year. Macedonia has been our strategic ally in the Balkans, in Afghanistan, in Iraq, and the American people stand by the Macedonian people. The Caucus looks forward to working together with the Macedonian-American community to advance U.S.-Macedonia strategic relations.” ###
03.11.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, released the following statement in response to the President Trump releasing his annual budget request to Congress: “With this latest budget request, yet again President Trump has put his priorities on full display and made clear his willingness to sacrifice our middle class to please his wealthy friends and donors. From seniors to students, healthcare to our environment, the president spared no middle class priority from his wrecking ball. His budget request would be disastrous for seniors: slashing the Social Security and Medicare benefits they rely upon and have worked for their whole lives. It would decimate funding for the programs that allowed tens of millions of middle class families to gain health insurance under the Affordable Care Act. And it would gut countless programs that protect public health, invest in our roads and bridges, and help American workers support their families. Of course, cities like Philadelphia have the most to lose from the president’s proposed cuts to SNAP, subsidized student loans, community development, and transportation funding. The list goes on.” As this sequel to 2017’s GOP Tax Scam makes clear, President Trump and Republicans in Congress spent $1.9 trillion on tax cuts for billionaires and big businesses and left American workers and middle class families to foot the bill. Right on cue, when the deficit exploded, to no one’s surprise, Republicans announced they were going to cut middle class programs like Social Security and Medicare to pay for it. Here, President Trump is doing just that. Make no mistake: President Trump’s 2020 budget tells working people to foot the bill for stock buybacks and CEO bonuses.” Congressman Boyle is a member of the House Committee on the Budget and a co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, a group of House Democrats focused on leveling the economic playing field for American workers and middle class families. ###
03.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) was proud to join House Democrats in passing H.R. 1, the For The People Act, the most ambitious anti-corruption legislation since Watergate. The bill passed by a margin of 234-193, with no House Republicans voting in favor. The bill incorporated Congressman Boyle’s previous legislative efforts to make it easier for newly naturalized citizens to register to vote, decrease the influence of money in politics, and require presidential candidates to disclose business alongside personal tax returns. As a cosponsor and strong supporter of the bill, Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon its passage: “Today, the House of Representatives made a clear statement: We will return the control of our democracy to the American people. I was proud to help shape several provisions of the For The People Act that will make it easier for our citizens to vote, end the dominance of big money in elections, and combat corruption among elected officials. Democrats promised to clean up the culture of corruption that has plagued Washington. The passage of this bill is a landmark step to doing just that. Only then can we restore the public’s faith in our democracy, and make this institution work for the American public rather than special interests: from raising wages and making health care more affordable, to protecting the environment.” In the 115th Congress, Congressman Boyle introduced H.R. 3113, the Citizenship Empowerment Act, to ensure new U.S. citizens were provided with voter registration forms at naturalization ceremonies. He also introduced H.R. 7067, the Clean Money Act, which would strengthen the public financing of elections system to decrease the influence of big donors and special interests in politics. Congressman Boyle also successfully fought for H.R. 1 to include a provision requiring presidential candidates to release 10 years of business tax returns in addition to their personal returns in order to increase public transparency. Upon passage in the House, H.R. 1 was referred to the Senate for consideration. ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) cosponsored H.R. 1585, a bipartisan, robust, long-term Violence Against Women Act reauthorization bill. The Violence Against Women Act funds the investigation and prosecution of violent crimes against women, and ensures all victims and survivors have access to essential services and to justice. The law expired in February, threatening future funding until a reauthorization is passed. “Amidst a long-overdue national conversation about sexual assault and domestic violence, it’s as important as ever that we continue to prevent these heinous acts and support the women who endure them. The Violence Against Women Act allows the government to coordinate a national, unified response to these atrocities and move toward ridding our communities of gender-based violence. As a growing number of women courageously share their stories, the federal government must stand ready and able to assist in every way possible.” Congressman Boyle has been a long supporter of VAWA, and last February led a letter signed by nineteen other House Democrats to President Trump expressing strong concern that he had not yet nominated a director for the Office of Violence Against Women. ###
03.07.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement condemning recent comments by the United Kingdom’s Secretary of State for Northern Ireland in Parliament that killings by soldiers and the police during the decades-long conflict there “were not crimes”: “The recent statement by the United Kingdom’s Secretary of State for Northern Ireland is deeply troubling. To say the killings by British soldiers and police during the Troubles were ‘not a crime’ serves little purpose but to anger victims’ families and stoke the fires of division and misunderstanding. Dealing with the past is a critical element of the peace process in Northern Ireland, and essential to its enduring success. The Good Friday agreement affirms that ‘it is essential to acknowledge and address the suffering of the victims of violence as a necessary element of reconciliation.’ Effective investigations into all deaths during the Troubles is essential to a lasting peace. Following the Secretary’s comment, I renew my call for the Trump administration to appoint a Special Envoy to Northern Ireland. Special Envoys have played a central role in the Northern Ireland peace process. It is time for the President to honor his assurances, and demonstrate his commitment to the region and the ongoing peace process. ###
03.06.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement regarding his appointment by Democratic Caucus Chairman Hakeem Jeffries (NY-08) to the Committee on Caucus Procedures. “I look forward to serving Philadelphia and my fellow Democratic Members of Congress as a member of the Committee on Caucus Procedures. Now that we hold the House majority, it’s more critical than ever that our Caucus rules reflect the values and priorities of all of our Members, and serve to further fairness and transparency within the Caucus. We must lead by example. Only then can we achieve the goals we were elected to achieve on behalf of the public, and build a better America for all.” The twelve-member committee will work closely with Democratic Members of Congress and Caucus leadership on proposed amendments to Caucus rules, and make recommendations as needed. ###
03.04.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement announcing that the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services awarded two federal grants totaling $1,085,613 to Temple University for research on heart and vascular diseases. “Heart and vascular diseases are among the leading causes of death in America, killing over 610,000 people each year. I applaud Temple University and the Department of Health and Human Services for working toward developing better treatments for these diseases that cause such widespread suffering. I offer my sincerest congratulations to the researchers at Temple University and encourage them to keep advancing this important work. I will continue doing all I can in Congress to help.” The grants come from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, funded by Congressional appropriation. ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement upon the bipartisan passage of H.J.Res. 46, which would end the President’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, which he used as a basis for going around Congress to fund his border wall. “Today, the House sent a clear message to the President that we will fulfill our oaths to defend the Constitution and protect our democracy from his flagrant abuses of power. Under our system of checks and balances, as drafted by our Founding Fathers, no president has the authority to re-direct spending away from congressionally approved military projects to instead further a political pet project he was not otherwise able to negotiate with Congress. Article 1 of the Constitution gives Congress, the legislative branch, the spending authority. Period. Now, I hope the Senate does the right thing by voting for this resolution and putting the Constitution ahead of political interest and party allegiance.” Congressman Boyle cosponsored H.J.Res. 46 among a bipartisan group of over 200 Members of Congress. The resolution now moves to the Senate for approval and, if it passes with a simple majority within 18 days, to the President’s desk for his signature or veto. ###
02.26.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, as President Trump’s second summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un approaches, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) reintroduced his bill prohibiting President Trump from lifting economic sanctions on North Korea absent certification that it is improving its appalling human rights record. The legislation aims to strengthen the diplomatic hand of American negotiators to allow – and require – them to raise these issues during negotiations. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon the introduction: “There is compelling evidence that the Kim regime runs political prison camps and commits torture, abductions, and forced abortion, among other crimes. Transparency on human rights, coupled with clear details on verification, must be part of any negotiation. America is stronger when we speak with our values, especially when dealing with an authoritarian regime like North Korea. Human rights must always be a core tenet of American foreign policy. We must be steadfast and consistent in the principles that truly make America great. President Trump claims ‘there is no longer a nuclear threat from North Korea,’ but he has accomplished little more than a pinkie-swear with Kim Jung Un. In fact, he downplayed Kim’s human rights atrocities during the Singapore summit, and referred to the North Korean leader as ‘smart’ and beloved by his people. Such impulsiveness and apparent willingness to ignore human rights issues demands a stronger oversight role from Congress. We must not allow any president to compromise our core values for the sake of reaching any deal. Our core values are not negotiable.” Congressman Boyle’s bill would provide a multipronged approach to balancing the priorities of denuclearization with proactively addressing the gaping human rights void in North Korea. Boyle has been a consistent and outspoken proponent of principled U.S. leadership on matters of human rights across the globe; from Iran to Syria and North Korea. ###
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) and Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi (CA-12) released the following statement regarding Congressman Boyle’s appointment to the United States Group of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. “The NATO alliance is essential to the national security and economic prosperity of the United States and our allies, and global peace and stability the world over,” said Congressman Boyle. “Sadly, it is under great threat today thanks to the actions of our president, his disrespect for history, and his failure to address Putin’s ongoing attacks to the alliance’s credibility as a bastion for Western democratic ideals. As a new member of our country’s delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I’m focused on strengthening our ties to other member countries and reaffirming our commitment to the alliance, even as the Trump Administration tries to weaken it.” “I’m thrilled to appoint Congressman Boyle to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly,” said Speaker Pelosi. “His extensive experience on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and longstanding commitment to promoting democratic ideals abroad assures me that he has the expertise and the principles necessary to strengthen the NATO alliance during this perilous time of uncertainty.” The NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which began in 1955, gathers legislators from NATO’s member nations to work toward a mutual understanding of global security issues and strengthen the alliance. The Assembly is institutionally separate from NATO, but serves as an essential link between NATO and the parliaments of the NATO nations in order to provide better understanding of the Alliance’s objectives and missions among legislators and citizens of the Alliance. ###
02.25.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement announcing the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ grant award of $341,600 to Temple University for research on neurological development: “Fully understanding neurological development is a critical first step for improving the detection and treatment of the many neurological disorders that plague millions of Americans. I applaud Temple University and the Department of Health and Human Services for working toward a better understanding of neurological development so that we can better understand and ultimately beat these cruel disorders once and for all. I offer my sincerest congratulations to the researchers at Temple University, and encourage them to keep advancing this important work. I will continue doing all I can in Congress to help.” The grant comes from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, funded by congressional appropriation. ###
02.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement announcing the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services grant awards of $667,865 to Fox Chace Cancer Center for cancer research and $6,000 to Temple University for a conference on movement disorders: “I offer my sincerest congratulations to the researchers at Fox Chase Cancer Center and Temple University for their receipt of these important grants. I could not be prouder of the important work they do in my district, to the benefit of all Americans. We’ve seen incredible strides in cancer detection and treatment, but that’s no reason to step off the gas. For the one in three Americans who is diagnosed with cancer at some point in their life, these treatments often make the difference between life and death. For the almost-40 million Americans, many of them children, who struggle with movement disorders, the knowledge shared by Temple University’s conference will make great strides to improve their quality of life. On both fronts, I will keep doing everything I can in Congress to help.” These federal grants come from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Cancer Institute and the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, respectively. ###
02.22.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) joined more than 225 Members of Congress to cosponsor a resolution to nullify President Trump’s unlawful, dangerous emergency declaration at the southern border in order to build his border wall without congressional approval. Such action could steal up to $164 million of Pennsylvania’s Department of Defense military construction funds, which were intended for the security of our nation and the well-being of our men and women in uniform. $71 million could come from Philadelphia projects. This privileged resolution, H.J. Res. 46, would terminate the President’s declaration of an emergency under the authority provided in the National Emergencies Act (NEA). The House plans to pass the resolution tomorrow, after which it will be sent to the Senate for passage with a simple majority within 18 days, and then to the President’s desk. “The President’s emergency declaration was a desperate power grab that violates the Constitution and makes America less safe,” said Congressman Boyle. “This is a clear abuse of power to serve the President’s political agenda after he failed to convince Congress to pay for his ineffective, wasteful, multi-billion wall. Our system of checks and balances under the Constitution provides Congress with the spending authority for the purpose of preventing any one leader from operating against the public interest. This is exactly what we’re seeing today – and military families across the country stand to pay the price.” The President’s emergency declaration undermines the training, readiness, and quality of life of our military and their families by potentially targeting the following high-priority construction initiatives in Pennsylvania: Philadelphia: Submarine Propulsor Manufacturing Support Facility Pittsburgh: Reserve Training Center Pittsburgh: C-17 Construct Two Bay Corrosion/Fuel Hangar Pittsburgh: C-17 ADAL Fuel Hydrant System Pittsburgh: C-17 Construct and Overlay Taxiway and Apron Fort Indiantown Gap: Replace Operations Training/Dining Hall “This issue transcends politics. It is about patriotism,” continued Congressman Boyle. “I am proud to join my colleagues – 224 Democrats and one Republican – as a cosponsor of this resolution defending our Constitution and the system of checks and balances our Founding Fathers laid out to prevent the tyranny of a unilateral executive. Pennsylvania families deserve no less.” ###
02.19.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) announced today that he has been appointed to serve as an Assistant Whip for the 116th Congress. “I’m thrilled to serve Philadelphia and my fellow Democratic Members of Congress as an Assistant Whip,” said Congressman Boyle. “Now that we hold the House majority, it’s more critical than ever that we ensure our legislation considers the viewpoint of every Caucus member and their constituents. I’m proud to join the Whip team and work toward the 116th Congress being inclusive, collaborative, and productive.” “I’m pleased that Congressman Boyle will be joining my Whip team as an Assistant Whip for the 116th Congress,” said Majority Whip James E. Clyburn. “Congressman Boyle will play a critical role in my Whip operation, helping us ensure that every voice of the most diverse Caucus ever is heard as we consider legislation to move our country in a positive direction. I look forward to working with Congressman Boyle to ensure that Democrats deliver on their promise to advance an agenda that will have a positive impact on Americans’ everyday lives.” Assistant Whips are responsible for helping the Whip operation get an accurate read on where Members of the Caucus stand on certain pieces of legislation. They work with Members of the Caucus to answer any questions or address any concerns that Members may have with upcoming bills. ###
02.15.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement following President Trump declaring a national emergency at the southern border in order to build a border wall without Congressional approval. “President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border is a disturbing abuse of power to serve his political aims. The Constitution entrusts Congress with spending authority, and the President with the duty to faithfully execute the law. After years of complaining about executive overreach, President Trump decided to do just that by redirecting federal spending without Congressional approval. I will do everything in my power to ensure this flagrant power grab is not successful and our democracy remains strong for generations to come.” ###
02.14.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement in response to the EPA unveiling its Comprehensive Nationwide PFAS Action Plan: “While I appreciate its attention to this issue, I continue to be frustrated by the EPA’s lack of urgency in addressing the nationwide PFAS contamination epidemic. Every American deserves to trust the safety of their drinking water. I won’t stop fighting until that’s a reality. As the EPA drags its feet, I will proceed with reintroducing my legislation to require the agency to promulgate a strong, enforceable federal drinking water standard.” ###
02.11.2019	“One can criticize the Israeli government without necessarily being anti-Semitic. Just like one can criticize the US government without necessarily being anti-American. However, there is simply no denying the fact that, for some, their anti-Israel views are rooted in anti-Semitism. Alluding to an old trope about Jews and money is, quite clearly, anti-Semitic. Regardless of political party, anti-Semitism must be loudly rejected, especially now at a time of increased anti-Semitic attacks, both here at home and abroad. I am a strong supporter of the right of Israel to exist. I make no apologies for this. I am also a supporter of the right of the Palestinian people to have their own homeland. As such, I have long supported a two-state solution to finally end this conflict. The United Nations first offered a two-state solution in 1947. One nation would be a homeland for the Jewish people, the other a homeland for the Palestinians. Israel accepted it. The Palestinians rejected it. It was offered again at Camp David in 2000. Israel accepted it. The Palestinians rejected it. Again, in 2008, it was offered, and again Israel accepted it, and again the Palestinians rejected it. I will continue to work to achieve peace in the Middle East, and I look forward to the day the Palestinians will have a leadership that puts the future of its own children over its desire to wipe Israel off the map.”
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s State of the Union Address tonight: “Time and time again, President Trump has failed America’s middle class. Tonight was no different. While the President may boast about low unemployment and a strong economy, millions of middle class Americans are struggling to make ends meet with stagnant wages and no help from his $1.5 trillion tax scam. He promised us better health care, but undermined pre-existing conditions protections and restricted Medicaid. He said he would drain the swamp, but appointed corrupt ex-lobbyists throughout his cabinet. Finally, I was especially caught off guard to hear President Trump preach the benefits of bipartisanship and profess to stand against bullying tonight. Here above all else, time and time again, he fails to lead by example.” ###
02.05.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement in celebration of the Lunar New Year and the beginning of the Year of the Pig: “I wish a Happy Lunar New Year to the Asian American and Pacific Islander communities celebrating in Philadelphia and around the world. Today is a wonderful reminder of the vast contributions AAPI Pennsylvanians make to the diverse tapestry of our culture. In the spirit of the Lunar New Year and the Year of the Pig, I’m working hard in Congress to ensure every AAPI family – and all Americans – are able to achieve prosperity and have hope for a brighter future.” ###
02.01.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement announcing that the Department of Health and Human Services has granted $79,250 to Temple University for research on improving treatment of HIV-related neurological problems: “I offer my sincerest congratulations to the researchers at Temple University for their receipt of this important grant. The past decades have seen incredible strides in HIV treatment and survival rates, but that’s no reason to step off the gas. For the 20,000 Philadelphians and 36 million others around the globe living with HIV, these treatments can go a long way to alleviate their symptoms and improve their quality of life. I applaud Temple University and the Department of Health and Human Services for working toward better treatment for HIV, and I’m doing everything I can in Congress to help.” The grant comes from the Department of Health and Human Services’ National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement in response to reports of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s decision to not regulate the levels of PFOS and PFOA chemicals in Americans’ drinking water, an action he has led the fight for in Congress since 2016: “The EPA’s sole mission is to protect the safety of our environment. Ensuring every American can trust the safety of the water flowing out of their tap is a fundamental responsibility. After years of overwhelming outcry from communities across the country, state and local governments, impacted families and military veterans, a growing body of science, and countless elected officials, I cannot believe the EPA has decided to fail to meet its clear duty to regulate these drinking water contaminants. I won’t stop fighting to make the EPA do its job under the Safe Drinking Water Act. It is now clear I must reintroduce my legislation to require this action with absolute certainty. In the meantime, the Senate should not confirm Andrew Wheeler as Administrator of the EPA without his commitment to reversing this misguided decision.” Congressman Boyle is a founding member of the Congressional PFAS Task Force. In both the 114th and 115th Congress, he introduced bipartisan legislation that would have required the EPA to set an enforceable, nationwide drinking water standard for PFAS. He has also secured over $160 million in government funding for cleaning up, studying, and preventing future PFAS contamination. Additionally, he lead a bipartisan letter calling for the release of the Department of Health and Human Services’ Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) study indicating these chemicals are more dangerous the human health than previously understood. The study was initially withheld by the Trump Administration for fear of negative publicity. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – In light of this critical time during the Brexit debate, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) introduced a resolution into the House of Representatives expressing the sense of the House that it opposes any re-establishment of a hard border between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. His statement is as follows: “One of the great foreign policy achievements of the 20th century was the Good Friday Agreement (GFA). Brokered by US Special Envoy George Mitchell, and agreed to by the UK, Republic of Ireland, and leading parties in Northern Ireland, it eliminated the hard border that then existed between Northern Ireland the rest of Ireland. Now Brexit threatens this. A hard border would eliminate the free flow of people between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, which has proved fundamental to promoting peace and unity. Given the United States is a close ally of both the UK and Republic of Ireland, and given the United States played a leading role in helping facilitate the GFA, it is now time for the United States Congress to make clear we stand in strong opposition to a hard border. We must not go backwards.” ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement announcing that the Department of Health and Human Services has granted $1,407,837 to Temple University for research on heart and blood diseases, as well as communication disorders. “I offer my sincerest congratulations to the researchers at Temple University for their receipt of these important grants. Heart and blood diseases burden tens of millions of Americans and are a leading cause of death in this country. Communication disorders can also take a huge toll on patients, as well as the loved ones who lose the ability to communicate with them. I applaud Temple University and the Department of Health and Human Services for working toward earlier diagnosis and better treatment of these diseases, and I’m doing everything I can in Congress to help.” Temple University received $438,611 from the National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders to research early detection and treatment of various communication disorders. It received $495,392 and $473,834 from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute to study heart and blood diseases, respectively. ###
01.29.2019	WASHINGTON—U.S. Representatives Brendan Boyle (PA-02), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09) and Marc Veasey (TX-33) introduced the Patriot Employer Act, which would provide a tax credit to companies that provide fair wages and good benefits to workers. The Members released the following statement: “Working families know this economy is stacked against them. While corporations enjoy record profits, American workers face stagnant wages, benefit reductions, and unfair foreign competition,” Congressman Brendan Boyle said. “The GOP Tax Scam only made this reality worse. Let’s correct this by shaping our tax code to reward hard work and support employers who do right by their employees here in the United States. The Patriot Employer Act does exactly that through a carrot and stick approach: It rewards businesses that invest in quality jobs here at home and closes loopholes – instead of giving tax breaks to corporations that offshore, like the GOP Tax Scam. It’s past time our tax code stood for the American worker, and rewarded our Patriot Employers.” “As corporate America has squeezed more and more productivity from hard working Americans and more profit for themselves, fewer Americans are able to realize the American dream.” Congresswoman Schakowsky said. “Take home pay is lagging and far too few companies provide their employees with health insurance, contribute to their retirement security, or provide them with paid family leave. The Republicans’ tax scam exacerbated this problem, as we have seen record levels of stock buybacks and dividend payments. I am proud to stand with Sens. Durbin and Brown as we introduce this important legislation. This bill would turn back the tide against the greed of the worst actors in our economy, and reward those who treat their employees with the dignity and respect each worker deserves.” “Choosing businesses over blue-collar workers is a false choice the Republican Party has forced on voters for too long,” Congressman Veasey said. “The Patriot Employer Act will create a tax credit to help businesses who prioritize their workers’ healthcare, retirement and benefits. The Blue Collar Caucus has a real opportunity now that Democrats have won back the majority to demonstrate that we can strengthen American workers and American businesses together.” ###
01.24.2019	Tonight, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) and David Handera, Amtrak’s Vice President for Stations, Facilities, Properties and Accessibility released the following update regarding ongoing efforts to replace the Solari split-flap sign in the William H Gray III 30th Street Station: “I appreciate Amtrak’s ongoing commitment to meeting this challenge with a solution that honors the history of 30th Street Station and ensures a safe, enjoyable experience for all passengers,” said Congressman Boyle. “Accessibility is of paramount importance. However, at 30th Street Station, there is tremendous opportunity to achieve these aims in a manner that also retains the iconic character of the Solari sign – of which thousands of passengers have spoken out in support. I remain committed to continuing my advocacy with Amtrak to achieve such a resolution.” “The new Passenger Information Display System is necessary to help us modernize the station, comply with ADA-law and sync the main board with the gate boards, which will improve the overall customer experience for our Philadelphia customers,” said Mr. Handera. “We too have a deep appreciation for the board as part of our history and are working with Congressman Boyle and other leaders to make sure this board has a temporary home at The Railroad Museum of Pennsylvania until it can be reincorporated into the station for everyone to enjoy.” The Solari Board will be taken down this weekend. Temporary boards with train information have already been installed and will be supplemented by Amtrak staff that will be on hand to direct customers. The new Passenger Information Display System installation will be complete in late February. The William H Gray III 30th Street Station Solari split-flap board was installed in the 70s to replace a chalkboard. The sign and its signature click-clack sound have come to symbolize the city and its history to Philadelphia residents and visitors alike. It is the last analog train schedule board at any Amtrak station across the nation Amtrak is actively seeking a master developer partner for Gray 30th Street Station to assist in introducing new customer amenities, reinvigorating the retail and commercial potential of the station and other customer improvements, and anticipates naming a final Best Value Proposer in late 2019. ###
01.22.2019	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-2) and Congressman Richard Neal (MA-1) introduced a resolution honoring the 100th anniversary of the inaugural meeting of the First Dáil Éireann, Ireland’s Parliament, which produced a Declaration of Independence for Ireland on January 21, 2019. “One hundred and forty-three years after a group of brave American patriots signed the Declaration of Independence in my hometown of Philadelphia, a group of Irish citizens began their own revolution. The Dáil’s first meeting 100 years ago declared Ireland an independent nation and enabled its people to enjoy the freedoms they treasure today,” said Congressman Boyle. “This resolution honors Ireland’s struggle for liberty, and those who fought to advance Irish independence. This is an important commemoration for Ireland, for the millions of Irish ancestry in the United States, and for all who believe in liberty worldwide,” said Boyle, the only member of the U.S. Congress with an Irish-born parent. “As the Democratic Chairman of the Friends of Ireland Caucus in the United States Congress, I am pleased to be an original cosponsor of this resolution celebrating the 100th Anniversary of the first Dail Eireann in 1919,” said Congressman Richard E. Neal. “This seminal event in Dublin’s Mansion House a century ago helped change history and led to the creation of an independent and modern Ireland. The relationship between America and Ireland is strong and enduring, and it is fitting that the U.S. House of Representatives should recognize the centenary of the establishment of Ireland’s first democratic structures and institutions. I am pleased to mark this historic occasion, and congratulate my friends and colleagues in the current Dail for achieving this significant milestone.” ###
01.22.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) tonight released the following statement upon introducing new legislation to ban future government shutdowns, H.R. 696, the Ban Government Shutdowns Act. “The era of government shutdowns has been a relatively recent phenomenon in American history as it is increasingly being used as a weapon for political gain,” said Congressman Boyle. “This is irresponsible, and morally wrong. The current shutdown – the longest in history – continues to threaten the health and wellbeing of the American people and our economy at large. It’s holding the paychecks of 800,000 hardworking public servants ransom, collateral damage of an unrelated political debate, and threatening global confidence in our nation. This is no way to govern. “We can’t imagine our founding fathers considered shutting down government as their sole means of achieving legislative victories, and neither should we in this day and age. That is why I introduced legislation today to ban any future government shutdowns. We must end this terrible chapter of political brinksmanship that continues to erode our democracy.” Congressman Boyle’s legislation would trigger an automatic 90-day continuation of current funding levels at the termination of an appropriations bill, rather than a lapse in appropriations triggering a shutdown. ###
01.17.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement following Temple University’s receipt of a $237,750 grant from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ National Institute on Aging to research Alzheimer’s Disease. “I offer my sincerest congratulations to the researchers at Temple University for their receipt of this important grant. Alzheimer’s Disease plagues nearly 6 million Americans, including hundreds of thousands in Pennsylvania. It takes a serious toll not only on the bodies and minds of its victims, but also on their families. I applaud Temple University and the National Institute on Aging for working toward better diagnosis and treatment of this terrible disorder, and I’m doing everything I can in Congress to help.” Congressman Boyle is a member of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease. ###
01.16.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement upon being appointed to the following three individual subcommittees of the House Ways and Means Committee: Select Revenue (previously Tax Policy) Subcommittee Oversight Subcommittee Social Security Subcommittee “I am honored and eager to get to work as a member of these subcommittees, each of which provide me an excellent opportunity to advocate for American workers, students, seniors, and middle class families of Philadelphia – and continue the work I’ve started as co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus. Our tax code should work for all Americans, not just those at the top best equipped to expose its loopholes. It should be a tool to reward American businesses that do right by their employees, build 21st century infrastructure, and empower graduates to start the careers of their dreams. “We now see that the 2017 GOP Tax Scam has unfairly rigged our tax code for billionaires, without the trickle-down benefits the Republicans promised American families. As a member of the Tax Policy Subcommittee, I will fight for a tax code that gives every American a fair chance to succeed. As a member of the Oversight Subcommittee, I will fight for government transparency at a time in our history where I fear we need it most. “Since first elected to office I’ve fought to strengthen and expand Social Security: a fundamental promise and core tenant of this nation, that if you work hard and pay your dues or find yourself disabled, we’ll have your back. I’ve fought tirelessly to address the unconscionable administrative backlog encountered by too many Pennsylvanians currently seeking the life-saving assistance they’re owed by law. Philadelphia’s backlog remains one of the worst in the nation, but we’re making important progress since I took on this fight. My position on the Social Security Subcommittee will allow me to continue to push for answers, and results.” ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Brendan F. Boyle, the senior congressman from southeastern Pennsylvania, has been selected by the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee to serve on the prestigious House Ways and Means Committee. The oldest committee in Congress and the only one to be called for in the U.S. Constitution, the Ways and Means Committee is the chief economic development committee. It presides over key issues such as tax policy, trade, Medicare, and Social Security. The committee counts among its former members: seven U.S. Presidents, eight U.S. Vice-Presidents, twenty-one Speakers of the House of Representatives, and four Justices of the Supreme Court. “I would like to thank Speaker Pelosi and my Democratic colleagues on Steering and Policy for selecting me for this important position. Serving on this storied and powerful committee will allow me to fight for Philadelphia and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania like never before,” said Boyle. “From ensuring tax policy is fair to working families to protecting vital programs like Social Security and Medicare, I will do everything in my power to ensure the people of Pennsylvania and people of America have the support they need to thrive.” At 41, Boyle will become one of the youngest members of Congress’ oldest committee. “I am grateful for this committee nomination, particularly at this point relatively early in my congressional career, and I will use my new position to fight to give Pennsylvanians of every zip code a shot at the American dream,” said Boyle. ###
01.09.2019	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) joined 51 colleagues in sending a letter to the Trump Administration demanding the IRS issue refunds during the government shutdown, despite Republicans’ refusal to fund the IRS. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon sending the letter: “President Trump’s reckless government shutdown has already cost countless Americans critical government services, and 800,000 federal workers their paychecks. We cannot allow his erratic demands for an expensive, unpopular, ineffective border wall to cost people their tax refunds as well. These refunds are vital for American families, particularly working people trying to make ends meet. I call on President Trump to issue these refunds and open the government at once.” Congressman Boyle is a Co-Chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, a group of House Democrats aimed at fighting for working people. ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s Oval Office address on his effort to build a wall at the southern border. “Here’s what the President didn’t tell the American people about the proposed border wall in his address: It would be incredibly expensive, most Americans don’t want it, and experts say it wouldn’t even help curb undocumented immigration or address the greatest threats at the border. The President needs to get his facts straight, put aside his erratic demands, stop abusing his office for political gain, and reopen the government immediately. He must stop holding federal employee paychecks and important government services hostage to his obsession with building the wall that Mexico was supposed to pay for.” Congressman Boyle is the senior House member for Philadelphia and Southeastern Pennsylvania. ###
01.08.2019	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-02) released the following statement in response to a recent report by the House Appropriations Committee showing that more than 11,000 federal workers in Pennsylvania are going without pay because of the government shutdown. “President Trump has been loud and clear: He doesn’t care that hundreds of thousands of public servants aren’t getting their paychecks because of his manufactured funding crisis. But his words have consequences: Federal workers, including more than 11,000 in Pennsylvania, are struggling to keep their families in their homes, keep the lights on, and put food on the table. I demand that President Trump put aside his erratic demands for an expensive, unpopular, ineffective border wall and let our fellow citizens go back to work. The President needs to stop playing politics with people’s livelihoods.” Congressman Boyle is the senior member of the Philadelphia delegation. ###
12.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Early this morning, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) issued the following statement in response to the federal government shut down after President Trump and congressional Republicans failed to advance a spending bill that included $5 billion for President Trump’s expensive, ineffective, and unpopular proposed border wall: “President Trump said he would be ‘proud’ to shut down the government, so right now he is probably beaming while thousands of government workers scramble to feed their families, buy holiday gifts and pay household bills without their hard earned paychecks. Never before has one party held the House, the Senate, and the White House yet been so stunningly unable to pass budgets that keep the government open. Again, our President who claims to “make the best deals” has failed miserably in his constitutional duty. This entire process has been shameful and irresponsible. Rather than cater to their base, it’s past time President Trump and Republicans controlling Washington step up in good faith to reach consensus with Democrats for the benefit of the nation. Congressman Boyle is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the Budget Committee. ###
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) announced that the Department of Transportation is awarding a $15 million grant to SEPTA to revitalize its 30th Street Station in Philadelphia, which he was proud to help secure. The funding comes from the Department’s Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development (BUILD) Grant Program, which aims to support major infrastructure improvements. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon the receipt of the grant: “I am very pleased that SEPTA will receive $15 million from the federal Department of Transportation to expand and revitalize 30th Street Station. 30th Street Station is a gem of our city: a window into our past and ambassador to those traveling through its halls. I believe we must protect its history while modernizing it to meet the needs of today. I know SEPTA shares these goals, so I was proud to help it secure this federal investment. These are exactly the kinds of infrastructure improvements this country needs to build a strong, durable economy that works for everyone. Philadelphia can lead by example.” SEPTA’s 30th Street station serves 25,000 riders every day. Because of its close proximity to Amtrak’s 30th Street Station, it serves as a gateway for regional, national, and international travel. ###
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) and Ryan Costello (R-PA-6) urged the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to add bladder cancer, hyperthyroidism, hypertension, and Parkinson-like conditions to its list of compensable conditions without further delay, enabling veterans battling these ailments because of their exposure to Agent Orange and other herbicides used during the Vietnam War to receive the VA care they deserve and need. Former VA Secretary David Shulkin recommended this course of action to White House budget officials last year. “This long-awaited administrative step would help tens of thousands of veterans get access to the care they need and deserve,” said Congressman Boyle. “We made a promise to our veterans: they served this country, and in return, we’d always have their backs. The Trump administration should make good on that promise by ensuring all service members exposed to these herbicides and chemicals as a part of their military service get the health care they need. Not one more service member should be forced to suffer in this way without the best care our federal government has to offer.” The bipartisan letter to the Department of Veteran Affairs co-led by Reps. Costello and Boyle was signed by a total of 27 House Members representing 13 states (PA, FL, OR, MI, HI, NY, OH, MA, ME, IL, TX, VT, AR), along with the District of Columbia and Guam. A copy of the letter sent to the VA Secretary can be found here. ###
12.13.2018	Senate Bill Text | Bill Summary | Op-Ed | Letter of Support Washington, DC - United States Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) applauded U.S. Representative Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), incoming Assistant Democratic Leader; Rep. Mark Pocan (D-Wis.), incoming co-chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus; Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-Mass.); Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-Pa.); and Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.), for introducing companion legislation to Senator Warren's Accountable Capitalism Act. Senator Warren introduced the bill in August to help eliminate skewed market incentives so that American corporations and American workers can do well together. The legislation empowers American workers and aims to reverse the harmful corporate trend over the last thirty years that have produced record corporate profits for American companies but stagnant wages for American workers. "I'm proud to partner with Representatives Luján, Pocan, Lynch, Boyle, and Schakowsky on this bill to empower American workers," said Senator Warren. "With the support of this powerful group of House leaders, we're one big step closer to helping American workers get the higher wages they deserve." "Throughout our country's history, the well-being of our workers has been directly linked to the prosperity we have achieved as a nation," said Representative Luján. "Yet today, working families in my district and across the country face rising costs of living and stagnant wages. Elevating the voices of workers in our corporate boardrooms will help restore balance in our economy. The Accountable Capitalism Act is an innovative and commonsense approach to level the playing field. I thank Senator Warren for her partnership on this effort." "Today, it's more important than ever that we give American workers the opportunity to have a seat at the table to make critical decisions on their rights and their future. Unfortunately, runaway corporate power is causing more benefits to flow to shareholders and CEOs, while families are struggling to make ends meet," said Representative Pocan. "I'm proud to join my colleagues in introducing the House companion bill to Sen. Warren's Accountable Capitalism Act to take a strong step forward leveling the playing field for America's middle class. Together, we will empower American workers and build an economy that works for everyone." "I am proud to join my colleagues Representatives Luján, Pocan, Boyle and Schakowsky to introduce the House companion Bill to Senator Warren's legislation," said Representative Lynch. "Hopefully this Bill will help to rebalance the relationship for workers and give employees a stronger voice in the workplace." "American workers feel the system is rigged against them - and they're right," said Congressman Boyle. "Washington has only exacerbated this trend. Look no further than the Republican tax scam and the record profits, stock buybacks, and stagnant wages we've seen since. Clearly we can no longer afford to sit back and hope corporations act in the best interests of their employees. The Accountable Capitalism Act represents a great step toward making that a reality." "For the past 40 years, economic growth has gone to the top one percent, and workers have seen their wages stagnate and their jobs shipped overseas," said Representative Schakowsky. "Even with high profile examples like General Motors announcing its intent to perversely kill roughly 15,000 American jobs leading to its stock price increasing by five percent, the Republican majority over the last eight years has done nothing to right this wrong. In fact, Republicans have made things much worse by crafting that misguided tax bill. That is why I have chosen to be an original cosponsor of the Accountable Capitalism Act, a bill that will ensure the American economy gets back on track and works for everyone, not just the wealthy." Since the passage of the Republican tax bill earlier this year, American companies have done more than $800 billion in stock buybacks, while real wages for workers remain stagnant. There is an urgent need to end the grip of shareholder value maximization and return to the era when American corporations produced broad-based growth that helped workers and shareholders alike. The Accountable Capitalism Act: Compels company directors to consider the interests of all corporate stakeholders - including employees, customers, shareholders, and communities in which the company operates - by requiring American corporations with $1 billion or more in annual revenue to obtain a federal charter as a "United States corporation." This approach is derived from the thriving benefit corporation model that 33 states and the District of Columbia have adopted and that companies like Patagonia, Danone North America, and Kickstarter have embraced with strong results. Empowers workers at United States corporations to elect at least 40% of Board members: Borrowing from the successful approach in Germany and other developed economies, a United States corporation must ensure that no fewer than 40% of its directors are selected by the corporation's employees. Restricts the sales of company shares by the directors and officers of United States corporations: Top corporate executives are now compensated mostly in company equity, which gives them huge financial incentives to focus exclusively on shareholder returns. To ensure that they are focused on the long-term interests of all corporate stakeholders, the bill prohibits directors and officers of United States corporations from selling company shares within five years of receiving them or within three years of a company stock buyback. Prohibits United States corporations from making any political expenditures without the approval of 75% of its directors and shareholders: Drawing on a proposal from John Bogle, the founder of the investment company Vanguard, United States corporations must receive the approval of at least 75% of their shareholders and 75% of their directors before engaging in political expenditures. This ensures any political expenditures benefit all corporate stakeholders. Permits the federal government to revoke the charter of a United States corporation if the company has engaged in repeated and egregious illegal conduct: State Attorneys General are authorized to submit petitions to the Office of United States Corporations to revoke a United States corporation's charter. If the Director of the Office finds that the corporation has a history of egregious and repeated illegal conduct and has failed to take meaningful steps to address its problems, she may grant the petition. The company's charter would then be revoked a year later - giving the company time before its charter is revoked to make the case to Congress that it should retain its charter in the same or in a modified form. ###
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) and Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) introduced legislation to prevent the Social Security Administration (SSA) from imposing an additional administrative hurdle in 10 states, called reconsideration, onto the already onerous process of determining Social Security disability benefit eligibility. Reconsideration would harm many applicants stuck in the unacceptable backlog of pending claims awaiting adjudication in Pennsylvania. According to SSA’s own estimates adding this step would add an average of 100 days to thousands of applicants’ wait times. Upon introduction of the bill, the Senator and Congressman released the following statements: “The Social Security Administration’s wait times are unacceptably high and harm individuals with disabilities nationwide. These wait times place incredible financial strain on people with disabilities who cannot work, and thousands die each year while waiting to get a final decision on disability benefits,” said Sen. Casey. “SSA shouldn’t impose an additional step that adds another 100 days of wait time to the disability benefits application process for tens of thousands of applicants. The Social Security Disability Protection Act (S. 3741) would stop SSA from taking this unnecessary and harmful step. People with disabilities nationwide and in Pennsylvania rely on Social Security, and we must stand up for them to ensure they can access these benefits when they need them.” “It is unconscionable that Pennsylvanians with disabilities face years-long delays just to have their cases heard,” said Congressman Boyle. “This bureaucratic nightmare is taking away their livelihood, threatening their health, and even putting some of their lives in jeopardy. I refuse to allow the Social Security Administration to erect additional barriers that have not been found to assist claimants, especially as SSA is still working to address current backlogs – and Philadelphia’s remains among the worst in the nation. We have a legal and moral obligation to allow our neighbors to receive the life-saving assistance they are owed by law.” The bill is expected to be referred to the Finance Committee in the Senate (S. 3741) and the Ways and Means Committee in the House (H.R. 7276). Casey and Boyle have been pushing SSA to reduce current backlogs and provide an explanation for its decision to impose reconsideration on Social Security disability program applicants in the ten states, including Pennsylvania, that were exempted from reconsideration in 1999. Under SSA’s plan,– in the 10 states, more than 105,000 people with disabilities would have to wait longer for a decision on their eligibility for benefits in the first year. They would need to go through the reconsideration step before receiving a hearing, adding over an average of over three months to already excessive wait times. More than 35,000 people with disabilities will drop out of the application process altogether because of the addition of another lengthy step. The following organizations have endorsed the bill: National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, The Arc of the United States, the Center for Legal Services (Philadelphia) and the National Organization of Social Security Claimants’ Representatives. ###
12.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement announcing the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers’ $29.2 million dollar funding for the deepening of the Delaware River between Philadelphia and Camden, New Jersey. The deepening will allow larger ships to come to and from the Delaware River ports, providing safer and more efficient transportation of goods, supporting local jobs, and adding more than $13 million to the U.S. economy. “I was proud to help bring this critical federal investment to finalize the deepening of the Delaware River near Philadelphia over the finish line. Rebuilding and improving our infrastructure is vitally important for the growth of our economy, especially in the Northeast and Philadelphia in particular. To this end, deepening the river is essential, and it will pay dividends for years to come. Plain and simple, we need more investments like this, and I won’t stop fighting for them.” Ports along the Delaware River already handle 100 million tons of cargo annually and support 135,000 local jobs. By allowing larger cargo ships to dock in and around Philadelphia, the project will boost these numbers even higher, generating more than $1 billion in port infrastructure investment projects, strengthening our local economy, and creating or sustaining good jobs for hardworking Pennsylvanians. The Southport marine terminal complex alone could see 4,000 new jobs. Some estimates suggest the upgrades could generate more than 6,000 direct and indirect jobs. Congressman Boyle, a member of the House Budget Committee, led numerous requests to the Trump Administration and Appropriations Committees urging this investment. He is entering his third term in office. ###
11.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the Russian military firing on and seizing several Ukrainian naval ships yesterday, wounding six Ukrainian sailors: “Vladimir Putin has once again escalated its illegal war in Ukraine. The United States must vigorously support Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. Russian authorities must return Ukrainian vessels and sailors or face more U.S./E.U. sanctions. It is upsetting that during this critical time for Ukraine, President Trump once again chose to attack an ally rather than hold Putin accountable for his aggression.” Congressman Boyle is a leading voice in Congress pushing the United States to help Ukraine defend itself against Russian aggression. Most recently, his bill encouraging cybersecurity cooperation with Ukraine passed as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019. He has also pushed Congress to offer more humanitarian assistance to Ukraine and prevent President Trump from coordinating efforts with Russia that threaten Ukraine. ###
11.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) solemnly commemorated today’s Day of Remembrance of the Victims of the Holodomor, which occurred 85 years ago. Holodomor was a brutal famine purposefully inflicted onto the Ukrainian people by the Soviet Union that resulted in seven to ten million deaths. Congressman Boyle issued the following statement on the Day of Remembrance: “Today, we honor the millions of Ukrainians who lost their lives at the hands of the brutal Soviet regime 85 years ago. Holodomor, the Soviets’ forced starvation of the Ukrainian people, was a crime against humanity so atrocious it has few parallels in modern history. We must also honor those who survived the famine, for they have shown unmatched resiliency in the face of immense tragedy. The Soviet Union attempted to destroy the Ukrainian people’s identity, but because of these brave survivors, they failed. Sharing their story is the best means to preventing the mistakes of our past from reoccurring.” Earlier this year, Congressman Boyle cosponsored H.Res.931 to honor the anniversary of the famine-genocide, and serve as a reminder of the repressive Soviet policies against the people of Ukraine. Congressman Boyle is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ###
11.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement on the midterm election where Democrats have secured the majority for the 116th Congress: “I am thrilled that Democrats earned the public’s trust to set the House’s agenda next Congress; to exercise the legislative branch’s constitutional duties of checks and balances, and to further a platform of policies that work for all Americans, not just those at the top. “We’re going to protect people with pre-existing conditions and control health care costs, so your income won’t determine whether you get the care you need. We’re going to create jobs and raise wages by rebuilding America’s crumbling infrastructure. And, we’re going to clean up the culture of corruption that has plagued Washington since President Trump took office and Congressional Republicans willfully turned a blind eye. “I am very proud of the level of voter engagement we saw in this election. The American people have unequivocally put their trust in House Democrats at this critical moment for our democracy. We will not let them down.” ###
11.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on the ousting of Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ forced resignation is an alarming development. We must act immediately to protect the independence and integrity of the Office of Special Counsel’s investigation. I urge my Republican colleagues to advance bipartisan legislation to protect the investigation – before it’s too late and we have a repeat of Nixon’s ‘Saturday Night Massacre.’” ###
11.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) was proud to announce the award of federal grant funding to the Jenkintown School District through the STOP School Violence Prevention and Mental Health Training Program, which Boyle fought to secure. The school district will use the money to enhance its social-emotional learning curriculum and anti-bullying program. Congressman Boyle released the following statement regarding the grant: “Bullying is a tragic epidemic in this country. It not only leaves children with physical and emotional scars, but also deprives them of the learning environment they need to succeed in school. That’s why I was proud to support the Jenkintown School District’s grant application to enhance its anti-bullying programs. Every child deserves to feel safe at school, and Jenkintown School District is taking real steps to ensure that.” Congressman Boyle serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the House Budget Committee. ###
10.18.2018	PHILADELPHIA, PA – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (CT-03) joined local Philadelphia labor leaders today to condemn unfair trade practices that have tipped the scales against the American working men and women and have decimated middle class families. “For years, we’ve seen unfair trade practices cost foreign workers their rights and dignity, and cost U.S. workers their jobs,” said Congressman Boyle. “We’ve seen CEO pay skyrocket while wages are stagnant, as firms struggle to compete with low foreign costs. And we’ve seen businesses and factories – like the Nabisco plant right here in Philadelphia – shut their doors. If United States businesses and workers are going to have a chance to compete, we must level the playing field and bring unfair trade practices to an end.” “Over the last two decades, the United States has conferred extensive new rights to corporations in numerous free trade agreements—with the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) as the most prominent example—at the expense of workers,” said Congresswoman DeLauro. “The damage from those trade deals are easy to see, from the Nabisco plant in Philadelphia to the Bic plant, the Phillips facility, and Ansonia Copper and Brass in my own district. Outsourcing is destroying American workers’ livelihoods, gutting manufacturing, and erasing millions of good-paying jobs. That is why Democrats are continuing to fight for trade deals that contain strong, enforceable labor and environmental standards, raise wages for all workers, and remove incentives for companies to continue outsourcing good-paying jobs.” Congressman Boyle is a founder and co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, a group focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for America’s working people. Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro serves in the Democratic leadership as Co-Chair of the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee, and she is the Ranking Member on the Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Subcommittee, where she oversees out nation’s investments in education, health, and employment. ###
10.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) unveiled the Clean Money Act, his original legislation to replace big, special interest money in congressional campaigns with public financing. Boyle’s Clean Money Act would provide vouchers for TV, radio, digital, and direct mail advertising to candidates who agree to forgo big dollar donations. This approach to campaign finance reform would eliminate the need to fundraise for what typically is the biggest expense in congressional campaigns. “I believe public service is a noble profession,” said Boyle, “but let’s face it: most of the public thinks Congress is bought and paid for by rich donors and special interests. It’s something that voters in both parties believe. They no longer trust their elected officials to fight for them and work in the public interest. This must be urgently addressed – not just with words – but with bold action and real reforms.” The Clean Money Act has received strong endorsements from organizations fighting against government corruption and supporting the needs of citizens over special interests. “Public Citizen strongly supports the Clean Money Act as a necessity to bringing sanity to our out-of-control election spending system,” said Lisa Gilbert, Vice President of Legislative Affairs at the consumer and citizen advocacy organization Public Citizen. “If passed, this bill would free Members of Congress from the endless reelection money chase and allow them to focus on what they came to office to do—represent their voters.” “Communities and children suffer when corporate special interests and big money campaign donors get to make decisions about our environment, our schools, and our health care,” said Aaron Scherb, Director of Legislative Affairs at the non-partisan watchdog organization Common Cause. “We commend Congressman Boyle for introducing the Clean Money Act to help empower the voices of ordinary Americans who can’t hire a lobbyist or hold a high-dollar fundraiser.” ###
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement in response to President Trump’s misleading and divisive rally this evening in Erie, Pennsylvania: “President Trump continues to play games with the American public and make a mockery of his office. His remarks tonight painted a false picture of a high-functioning administration working for the American public. In reality, he has run our government like a reality show, disregarding ethical norms and advancing special interests. He has sabotaged our health care, repeatedly trying to do away with the ACA’s pre-existing condition protections that help 5.4 million Pennsylvanians obtain insurance. He has failed to produce a long-promised infrastructure plan that Pennsylvania dearly needs: 1/3 of our roads are rated ‘poor’ and 1/5 of our bridges are structurally deficient. He has given handouts to millionaires and billionaires while letting wages for working people flounder, even fall in many cases. The list goes on. No matter what he says, his record is crystal clear: President Trump is not fighting for Pennsylvanian families.” Congressman Boyle serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the House Budget Committee. ###
10.10.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In the newly-released NRA ratings for the 2018 election, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) received an ‘F’ grade, reflecting his consistent, strong support for commonsense gun violence prevention measures. In response to the grade, Congressman Boyle stated: “I will wear this ‘F’ from the NRA as a badge of honor. The NRA’s dangerous agenda, promoting unfettered access to weapons of war for even the most violent among us, has cost countless Americans their lives.” Congressman Boyle has a long track record of supporting reasonable gun violence protection legislation. He participated in a sit-in on the House floor held in the aftermath of the Pulse nightclub shooting to call for changing the nation’s gun laws. He cosponsors legislation to close the “gun show loophole” (H.R. 1612), prohibit gun sales without background checks (H.R. 3464), allow the federal government to fund gun violence research (H.R. 1478), and establish a Congressional Select Committee on Gun Violence (H. Res. 367). Congressman Boyle is also a member of the Gun Violence Prevention Task Force. ###
10.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who was interacted with Ambassador Nikki Haley, released the following statement in response to the sudden resignation as U.N. Ambassador. “I’d like to thank Nikki Haley for her service as U.N. Ambassador over the past two years. Whenever she came in front of our committee and answered my questions I was always impressed with her grasp of the myriad challenges facing the United States around the globe. However, the fact remains she was just an instrument to carry out a failed foreign policy of a failed presidency. No matter who the President next appoints to the position, if he continues to cobble together his foreign policy from “Fox and Friends” then we will continue to fail at promoting American interests and values abroad. President Trump has jeopardized our standing around the globe, as evidenced by the chorus of laughter he received during his speech to the United Nations last month.” ###
10.06.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement after the U.S. Senate voted to confirm Judge Brett Kavanaugh to become the 114th Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States: “Today, partisanship in our country rose to a sickening level. The newest member of the nation’s highest court faces credible sexual assault allegations. Still, Senate Republicans rammed his nomination through after a rushed, sham investigation, putting their political gain above all else. Mr. Kavanaugh spewed partisan vitriol at his confirmation hearings, demonstrated a complete lack of judicial temperament, and now it seems he lied under oath to the Senate Judiciary Committee. They held their nose and bowed to President Trump to get their tax giveaway, and looked the other way on Judge Kavanaugh to get their conservative court. This is a sad chapter for our country, and the institution of the Senate.” Congressman Boyle serves on the House Foreign Affairs Committee as well as the House Budget Committee. ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON—Congressmen Dan Kildee (MI-05) and Brendan Boyle (PA-13), along with U.S. Senator Debbie Stabenow (D-MI), today introduced two bills to ensure that veterans and their families exposed to toxic chemicals at military installations get the health care services and benefits they need through the U.S. Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA). The Veterans Exposed to Toxic PFAS Act (VET PFAS Act) would require the VA to cover treatment of certain health conditions related to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) exposure. Under this bill, illnesses associated with PFAS exposure will be considered a service-connected disability, making veterans and their families exposed to PFAS eligible for disability payments and medical treatment from the VA. The Care for Veterans Act ensures that veterans exposed to volatile organic compounds including trichloroethylene (TCE) at the former Wurtsmith Air Force Base will also receive related health and disability benefits. “We made a promise to our veterans who signed up to serve this country that we’d take care of them and their families. These bills make good on that promise by ensuring that all service members exposed to toxic chemicals as a part of their military service get the health care they need,” said Congressman Kildee. “Toxic PFAS and TCE chemicals are increasingly being found across the country and we know exposure is harmful. I am proud to work with my colleagues in the House and Senate as we fight to clean up chemical contamination at military bases and get veterans and their families the resources they have earned.” “Michigan veterans and their loved ones who were exposed to PFAS, TCE, and other toxic chemicals during their military service are living with incredible uncertainty,” said Senator Stabenow. “Our legislation will ensure that service members and their families get the health care services and benefits they need from the VA.” “Veterans and their families exposed to these chemicals as a consequence of their public service deserve the full support and attention of the federal government," said Congressman Boyle. “I am proud to work with my colleagues to confront this issue through a multipronged approach. This legislation ensures our service members and their families receive the healthcare they need and deserve. Just as the military leaves no one behind on the battlefield, we must leave no veteran behind at home.” The military historically used PFAS in firefighting foam on military bases. According to health experts, these chemicals are dangerous to human health and many veterans have been exposed as part of their military service. Moreover, around many military bases, PFAS chemicals have leached into the groundwater making the surrounding drinking water unsafe for nearby residents. The VET PFAS Act is possible because of a nationwide health study included in the 2018 National Defense Authorization Act and Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations bill secured by Congressmen Kildee and Boyle, and Senator Stabenow. Once completed, the health conditions the study shows are linked to PFAS will be required to be covered by the VA. In addition, the VET PFAS Act covers the following conditions pursuant to a previously conducted study of 68,000 people in West Virginia: high cholesterol, ulcerative colitis, thyroid disease, testicular cancer, kidney cancer and pregnancy-induced hypertension. ###
09.28.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle voted against House Republicans’ “Tax Scam 2.0” when it passed on a party-line vote, making permanent a slate of tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans that were included in the first GOP Tax Scam passed in December 2017. Like the first vote, this legislation confers almost all of its benefits to the wealthiest Americans; the wealthiest 1 percent will see an average cut of $40,000 while the average American will see just $980, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon passage of the bill: “The second GOP Tax Scam is yet another shameful betrayal of the middle class, a conscious punch to the gut of the American worker, and a clear reflection of Republican priorities. Once again, House Republicans have delivered a $3.8 trillion gift to their rich friends and donors, blowing up the deficit and leaving our children to pick up the tab. To make a bad situation worse, Republicans are now discussing cleaning up their financial mess by cutting programs that middle-class families rely on like Social Security and Medicare. “America’s middle class doesn’t need empty promises that tax cuts to the rich will ‘trickle down’ to them, and they certainly don’t need cuts to Social Security and Medicare. America’s middle class needs real economic support – opening job opportunities, raising wages, and instituting fair working conditions. These tax scams do nothing to further these needs.” Congressman Boyle is the founder and co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, a group of House Democrats focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for America’s working people. He is also a member of the House Budget Committee.
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Republican members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously rejected along party lines a resolution of inquiry from Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) requesting all materials and documents used in preparation for July’s unprecedented Trump-Putin summit in Helsinki be handed over to Congress for review and oversight. The outcome of the vote, an unfavorable report from the committee, means the resolution will not be allowed to proceed to the House floor for debate and voting. When committee Republicans blocked his resolution, Congressman Boyle released the following statement: “We are elected to public office to put people before politics and serve our country. Moreover, under our constitution, it is the role of Congress, the legislative branch, to oversee the executive branch. Nonetheless, yet again today, House Republicans chose to duck these responsibilities and continue to bury their heads in the sand when it comes to President Trump’s cozy relationship with Vladimir Putin. We’ll never forget the bizarre press conference; but it is Trump and Putin’s secretive one-on-one meeting in Helsinki behind closed doors that is especially concerning given Putin’s role interfering in our elections, his ongoing threat to our allies, and President Trump’s failure to confront these concerns with the response they merit. “We all know what happened after the summit: President Trump declared on the world stage that he believed Putin over the U.S. intelligence agencies, providing Putin the propaganda of his dreams. Thanks to Republicans’ unwillingness to protect our country from Russia’s aggression, we will never know what happened during. Today’s vote is just the latest example of Congressional Republicans’ refusal to take even the smallest of steps to fulfill their constitutional oversight duties and put the independence of our democracy over their party allegiance.” Congressman Boyle has long taken steps to oppose President Trump’s appeasement of Vladimir Putin. He introduced legislation to prevent the U.S. from coordinating with Russia on issues of cybersecurity despite Trump’s statements of support for such activities, and passed legislation to promote cyber cooperation between the U.S. and its ally, Ukraine, a frequent target of Putin. Congressman Boyle has also been a consistent defender of Special Counsel Mueller’s independent investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian operatives during the 2016 election. He serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, its Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13)’s legislation, H.R. 4707, the Procure PGMS for Israel Act, as part of H.R. 5141, the U.S. Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act of 2018. Congressman Boyle’s bill strengthens the cooperation between the United States and Israel on high-tech weapons. The bill requires a joint assessment between the United States and the Government of Israel on the quantity and type of PGMs required for Israel to be prepared in any attack, authorizes transfer of PGMs to Israel from the U.S. War Reserve Stockpile in Israel, and amends the Department of Defense’s acquisition procedures to speed up production of precision-guided munitions. PGMs are guided projectiles that can reach precise targets with significant accuracy and decrease collateral damage to save civilian lives. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon the passage of his provision as part of the U.S. Israel Security Assistance Authorization Act: “Israelis live each day under the threat of attack by rockets, missiles, and armed drones. We must be exceedingly vigilant about the constant threat they face from bad actors in the region, such as Hezbollah and Hamas. That means improving access to our most advanced weaponry for Israel’s military in the event of a deadly conflict. Israel is our steadfast ally and the only strong democracy in the Middle East. Passage of this provision will ensure the U.S. stockpile in Israel includes the latest precision-guided munitions, at the ready and within reach for Israeli forces, significantly improving their security capabilities and safeguarding millions of lives – an insurance policy I hope we never have to use.” Congressman Boyle serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, its Subcommittee on the Middle East and North African, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
08.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) submitted a bipartisan letter signed by 56 Members of Congress to the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Health and Human Services’ Offices of the Inspector General regarding reports of physical and sexual abuse of detainees by guards and staff at immigrant detention centers. Specifically, the letter requests that the offices investigate these allegations and improve policies to prevent and deter detainee abuse in the future. Upon release of the letter, Congressman Boyle issued the following statement: “The stories of abuse from detained immigrants are nothing short of horrific – they’ve been physically beaten while handcuffed, sexually assaulted, and left nude and shivering in solitary confinement. Just one such story is too many – but we have reason to believe this behavior may be widespread, even systemic. Yet, few are thoroughly investigated. Treating immigrant families in federal custody with dignity and respect and bringing an end to these appalling incidents must be a bipartisan concern of the highest order. I call on the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Health and Human Services to reform their policies to ensure that not another immigrant mother, father, or child has to endure what so many already have.” The letter is co-led by Congressman Ryan Costello (R-PA-06), and has been signed by Rep. Salud Carbajal (D-CA-24), Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-FL-23), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (D-WA-07), Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ-03), Rep. Henry C. "Hank" Johnson, Jr (D-GA-04), Rep. Frederica Wilson (D-FL-24), Rep. Alcee L. Hastings (D-FL-20), Rep. Adriano Espaillat (D-NY-13), Rep. Matt Cartwright (D-PA-17), Rep. Bill Foster(D-IL-11), Rep. Gene Green (D-TX-29), Rep. Mike Quigley (D-IL-05), Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN-09), Rep. Joaquin Castro (D-TX-20), Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR-01), Rep. Nanette Diaz Barragan (D-CA-44), Rep. Linda Sanchez (D-CA-38), Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL-04), Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA-13), Rep. Tony Cardenas (D-CA-29), Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY-18), Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA-08), Rep. Val Demings (D-FL-10), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX-18), Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME-01), Rep. Grace Napolitano (D-CA-32), Rep. Robert Brady (D-PA-01), Rep. Rosa L. DeLauro (D-CT-03), Rep. Adam Smith (D-WA-09), Rep. Jose Serrano (D-NY-15), Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-NM-01), Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL-01), Rep. Norma Torres (D-CA-35), Rep. Ted Lieu (D-CA-33), Rep. Nydia Velazquez (D-NY-07), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI-01), Rep. Marc Veasey (D-TX-33), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-IL-09), Rep. Albio Sires (D-NJ-08), Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA-27), Rep. Donald Payne (D-NJ-10), Rep. Mark DeSaulnier (D-CA-11), Rep. Thomas R. Suozzi (D-NY-03), Rep. Juan Vargas (D-CA-51), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03), Rep. Yvette Clarke (D-NY-09), Rep. Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH-01), Rep. David N. Cicilline (D-RI-01), Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX-30), Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA-40), Del. Gregorio Kilili Camacho Sablan (D-MP), Rep. Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI-02), and Rep. Anthony Brown (D-MD-04). ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13)’s amendment addressing Russian support for the Taliban in Afghanistan as part of the Conference Report to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. Specifically, the amendment will require the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense to jointly submit a report to Congress on Russia’s support for the Taliban and other destabilizing activities in Afghanistan. The report must be directed to the Senate and House Armed Services Committees; the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations; and the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, of which Boyle is a member. Upon passage of the his amendment as part of the Conference Report, Boyle released the following statement: “Time and again Russia has proven to the world that it is focused on skirting international norms and rules of diplomacy to fuel instability and destabilize governments. For too long, malignant activity with Russian fingerprints has slithered its way into Afghanistan and aided the Taliban, to the detriment of American forces and efforts to achieve peace and stability there. The coordinated analysis and reporting that my amendment requires will serve as a strategic tool to address this subversive activity before it fuels a diplomatic crisis, or worse. We must provide our military and overseas diplomats the necessary information and tools to succeed in their assignments proactively and stave off military conflict before it’s too late.” On the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Boyle serves as a Member of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, and the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa. The NDAA Conference Report, with Boyle’s provision, now awaits consideration and likely passage in the Senate, and signature by the President. ###
07.26.2018	Washington - Today, Congressmen Brendan Boyle (PA-13) and Erik Paulsen (MN-03) launched a bipartisan effort to retire dogs, cats and primates no longer needed for research in government laboratories. Twenty lawmakers total from both parties signed a letter that was sent to the heads of all eight agencies that currently use hundreds of dogs and cats and thousands of primates in often painful experiments: the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of Agriculture, Department of Defense, Department of the Interior, Department of Veterans Affairs, Food and Drug Administration, National Institutes of Health and the Smithsonian Institution. “Our constituents are increasingly concerned about the welfare of animals used in federally-funded research and strongly support research animal adoption and retirement,” the lawmakers wrote. “We agree that cats, dogs and primates that survive taxpayer-funded government research should be provided with an opportunity to find suitable non-laboratory homes at the completion of studies.” "For years I’ve worked to reduce cruel government testing on dogs, cats and primates opposed by most Americans, and secure the release and retirement of animals no longer needed in federal research,” said Rep. Boyle. "I’m proud to collaborate with bipartisan colleagues to secure common-sense federal policies to get dogs and cats into loving homes and monkeys into accredited sanctuaries at the completion of government experiments.” Rep. Paulsen and Boyle’s letter was signed by: Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), Ken Calvert (R-CA), Tony Cardenas (D-CA), Yvette Clarke (D-NY), Wm. Lacy Clay (D-MO), Daniel M. Donovan, Jr. (R-NY), Matt Gaetz (R-FL), Raul M. Grijalva (D-AZ), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Ted Lieu (D-CA), Alex Mooney (R-WV), Jimmy Panetta (D-CA), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH), Dina Titus (D-NV) and Fred Upton (R-MI). ###
07.26.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – The U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment from Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) to encourage cooperation between the United States and Ukraine on matters of cybersecurity, and require State Department reporting to Congress on best practices to protect against future cyber attacks, as part of the Conference Report to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. The amendment is modeled off Boyle’s bipartisan bill, H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act, which passed the House on February 7, 2018 by a vote of 404-3. Ukraine has been repeatedly targeted by cyber attacks as a part of ongoing aggression from neighboring Russia. Specifically, the amendment requires the Department of State to report to Congress on the status of U.S. cybersecurity cooperation with Ukraine for the purpose of seeking new areas collaboration and assistance, as well as to pursue cooperation with regional partners and organizations to address shared cyber challenges, to the benefit of both nations. The NDAA Conference Report, with Boyle’s amendment, now heads to the Senate for likely passage, and ultimately to the President’s desk for his signature into law. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon House passage: “For far too long, Russia has been using Ukraine as a field test for cyber attacks that endanger the national security of our great ally, Ukraine, its regional neighbors, and the United States. Helping Ukraine strengthen its cyber defenses will not only protect Ukraine from future attacks, but it will also help the United States develop new and more effective technologies and strategies. As a proud representative of a strong Ukrainian-American communities, I am pleased to advance the strategic interests of both the United States and Ukraine. These days, we must do all we can to support our allies, and cyber is the modern battlefield.” Congressman Boyle has been an outspoken advocate for robust U.S.-Ukraine relations since elected to Congress. He serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, its Subcommittee on the Middle East and North African, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
07.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, in response to last week’s unprecedented one-on-one summit with Vladimir Putin with only two translators present, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced a resolution of inquiry requesting all materials and documents used in preparation for the summit by the Trump Administration. A Resolution of Inquiry is a legislative tool that has privileged parliamentary status, meaning it can be brought to the floor if the relevant Committee hasn’t reported it within 14 legislative days, even if the Majority leadership has not scheduled it for a vote. Once introduced, the Committee must schedule a markup in that set time, which means there has to be debate voted on in committee. The Committee may report the resolution “unfavorably” after markup to prevent it from going to the floor, otherwise it can be raised for a vote before the full House of Representatives. Upon introducing the resolution, Congressman Boyle released the following statement: “President Trump’s meeting behind closed doors with Vladimir Putin, and his damaging and bizarre remarks following this secretive meeting, should deeply concern all Americans and move members of Congress of both parties to act. The meeting itself is concerning given Putin’s role interfering in our elections, his ongoing threat to our allies, and President Trump’s failure to confront these concerns with the response they merit. However, the secretive nature of the meeting makes it all the more disturbing; it jeopardizes Congress’ ability to oversee the executive branch and furthers important questions regarding Trump’s relationship with Putin given his interference in our election to the benefit of President Trump.” Boyle continued, “Because President Trump went into the meeting without staff, which is highly unusual, we must take the word of a demonstrated friend of Putin on what happened in that room. I, for one, am unable and unwilling to be satisfied by the President’s assurances that he ‘gave up nothing.’ We all know what happened after the summit: President Trump declared on the world stage that he believed Putin over the U.S. intelligence agencies, providing Putin the propaganda of his dreams. I can only imagine what happened during.” Congressman Boyle has long taken steps to oppose President Trump’s appeasement toward Vladimir Putin. He introduced legislation to prevent the U.S. from coordinating with Russia on issues of cybersecurity despite Trump’s support for such activities, and legislation to instead promote cyber cooperation between the U.S. and its ally, Ukraine, a frequent target of Putin. Congressman Boyle has also been a vocal supporter of Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation into possible collusion between the Trump campaign and Russian operatives during the 2016 election. He serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, its Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
07.16.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Trump’s unprecedented, private meeting and joint press conference with Russian President Vladimir Putin earlier today: “I never thought I would see the day that the President of the United States would side with a Russian dictator over the men and women of the US intelligence community. President Trump took Putin – America’s chief adversary – at his word on Russia’s election interference, ignoring and betraying the U.S. intelligence community a mere three days after 12 Putin-linked agents were indicted by a federal grand jury. These egregious comments can be considered nothing other than a thank-you note from President Trump to Vladimir Putin. Trump continues to badmouth and betray our allies while refusing to confront Putin. House Republicans would be well-advised to finally step up and put country – which is truly at stake here – before party.” ###
07.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Republican members of the Rules Committee yesterday rejected an amendment put forward by Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) for inclusion in the House Intelligence Authorization Act, H.R. 6237. In response to President Trump’s failure to respond to Russian cyberattacks and interference with our election, even words of encouragement and openness toward collaborating with Russia on cyber defense, Congressman Boyle’s amendment would have prevented the United States from collaborating with Russia on matters of cybersecurity. President Trump arranged for an unprecedented meeting Monday with Russian President Vladimir Putin on the heels of a NATO Summit where Trump failed to address cyberattacks, Russian interference in various democratic elections, and Russian incursion into Crimea. Reportedly, President Trump was 30 minutes late for a NATO meeting yesterday centered on Russian aggression. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon the rejection of his amendment along party lines: “Again, Congressional Republicans have failed to stand up to President Trump and his indifference, even tacit support, toward Russia despite its clear, incriminating record of malign activities directed at the U.S. and our allies. In this day and age, cybersecurity is paramount to the safekeeping of our democracy. Sharing our cyber-intelligence with a foreign adversary known for conducting cyberattacks against us and our allies, as President Trump has suggested, would be clearly dangerous and detrimental to U.S. national security, to say the least. President Trump’s reckless remarks and continued coziness with Vladimir Putin demand a Congressional response. It’s time Republicans take a stand, and put the interests of our democracy, national security, and global reputation among allies before their political interests with President Trump.” Congressman Boyle has been an outspoken advocate for keeping the United States and democracies around the world safe from Russian aggression. In July 2017, following President Trump’s twitter announcement that he discussed cybersecurity cooperation with Putin, Congressman Boyle introduced H.R.3191, the No Cyber Cooperation with Russia Act to prohibit federal funds for establishing or supporting in any way a joint cybersecurity initiative with the Government of Russia. In February, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Boyle’s bill, H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act, by a vote of 404-3 in an effort to strengthen Ukraine’s ability to prevent and respond to cyberattacks. He serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, and its Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Marc Veasey (TX-33) issued the following joint statement in response to the U.S. Supreme Court’s decision to strike down public sector unions’ fair-share fees in Janus v. AFSCME. By law, unions represent all employees regardless of the employee’s financial contribution to the union. Now, with this decision, public sector employees who enjoy the rights and benefits secured through collective bargaining may no longer be required to pay “fair-share” dues to their unions. “Janus v. AFSCME is a wolf in sheep’s clothing; a case brought by billionaires in the name of ‘fairness’ to employees who benefit from collective bargaining but don’t want to pay their fair share. Its purpose is and has always been to divide workers and undermine the ability of unions to advocate for them at a time when they need it most. Today’s attack on unions is a politically motivated reinterpretation of the First Amendment by our conservative Supreme Court; the result of the 2016 election and Mr. Trump tipping the scales of the Court against the working class. We formed the Blue Collar Caucus to fight for American workers and push back against anti-worker leadership in Washington. Today’s decision adds to the importance of our mission and strengthens our resolve.” The Blue Collar Caucus was formed to hold President Trump and Congressional Republicans accountable for his promises to working people by fostering member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus focuses on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to reconnect the party to blue collar workers, and generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement. Current caucus members include: Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), John Garamendi (CA-03), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), Anthony Brown (MD-04), Alma Adams (NC-12), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-3) Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14), Robert Brady (PA-01), Donald Payne, Jr. (NJ-10), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Grace Meng (NY-06), David Cicilline (RI-01), and Ro Khanna (CA-17). ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) today released the following statement announcing his new legislation to reunite the 2,300 children separated from their parents and not helped by President Trump’s executive order yesterday. “President Trump started this barbaric policy of ripping children away from their families. His new executive order only affects future detainees and does nothing for the thousands of children who have already been separated from their families. Today, I introduced the "Reunite Children with Their Parents Act" (H.R. 6172) that will protect the children already in custody as a result of the President’s terrible policy, and ensure that it is the policy of the United States to reunite them with their families. The "Reunite Children with Their Parents Act" would mandate that within 60 days of becoming law, the DHS Secretary must reunite the children taken into custody with their families that have been separated as a result of President Trump’s border separation policy. If the President cannot care for these children, it is the solemn duty of Congress to lead where he has failed.” ###
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – House Budget Committee member Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement tonight upon the committee’s passage of the 2019 House Republican budget resolution on a party-line vote. Boyle offered amendments to reverse the bill’s cuts to Medicare and student loan assistance, which were both rejected on a party-line vote as well. “This budget is a sham that betrays the American people,” said Congressman Boyle. “Its purpose is clear: to force hard-working American families to foot the bill for the GOP tax scam that showers massive handouts upon big corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent. It is yet another attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act while slashing health care, retirement security, anti-poverty programs, education, infrastructure, and other critical investments. These cuts are very real and will have profound consequences on American families. A budget is a statement of values. This budget again reveals Republicans’ special interest agenda putting corporate and wealthy donors ahead of middle and working class Americans.” “It represents the final step of the Republican 3-step plan to give to the rich, increase our debt and deficit, and use this to justify cuts to programs relied upon by middle and working class Americans. First, they passed the Republican tax scam to mainly benefit the rich. Since enactment, there has been a growing pile of evidence that their tax law is a huge giveaway to millionaires and corporations. Second, their tax cut for the rich was a major factor in exploding the federal deficit. In CBO’s latest budget and economic outlook, CBO estimates the GOP tax scam will increase deficits by $1.9 trillion over ten years, even with the savings from economic growth. Third, they point to the now even larger deficits and instead of working on balanced solutions, demand huge cuts to crucial programs Americans rely on. Rather than working on balanced solutions to preserve crucial benefits for American families, the GOP budget resolution demands unacceptable cuts to the programs they rely on. It also includes fast-track reconciliation procedures to push through cuts in mandatory spending programs totaling $302 billion across eleven House committees. These cuts are likely to fall heavily on programs serving low-income families, students struggling to afford college, and seniors and persons with disabilities.” The Committee passed the resolution by a vote of 21-13 with all Democrats in opposition. It may now head to the House floor for a vote, and the Senate for a filibuster-proof reconciliation vote allowing for the repeal of Obamacare. Congressman Boyle and Congressional Democrats have vowed to fight the bill because it inflicts multi-trillion dollar cuts to vital initiatives for students, veterans, hungry families, farmers and retirees. ###
06.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC — Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) issued the following statement today following the release of a federal health study on per- and polyflourinated chemicals (PFAS). The Trump Administration, including U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt, had previously blocked publication of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry’s study, fearing a “public relations nightmare.” This study showed that the current health advisory levels for two types of PFAS, PFOS and PFOA, set at 70 parts per trillion (ppt) is seven to ten times higher than what ATSDR has identified as the minimal risk level (MRL) for these chemicals. Congressman Boyle led the congressional call for release of this federal study, and is leading the fight for regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. "Impacted communities deserve a full response from the federal government and access to any and all of the latest health effects data. I led a congressional letter demanding that White House officials and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt stop suppressing the federal health study on per- and polyflourinated chemicals (PFAS) and put public health before their fears of ‘bad PR.’ Now that the study has been released, it is clear we need stronger health-based drinking water regulations for PFOA and PFOS, as my legislation H.R. 3106 demands. I won’t let up in this fight." ### (click HERE to view health study)
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced bipartisan legislation to prohibit the lifting of economic sanctions on North Korea absent certification that it is improving its abysmal human rights record. The legislation aims to strengthen the diplomatic hand of American negotiators to allow – and require – them to raise these issues during negotiations. Congressman Ralph Norman (R-SC) joined Congressman Boyle from across the aisle to introduce this timely legislation. While President Trump professed to have discussed the subject with Kim Jung-Un during yesterday’s summit in Singapore, human rights advocates do not believe the issue was sufficiently addressed. “North Korea has a long, storied history as one of the worst human rights offenders,” said Congressman Boyle. “The president once called Kim a ‘sick puppy’ and a ‘madman who doesn’t mind starving his own people'. He has killed his own family members, proliferated forced labor camps, and publicly executed perceived political opponents. Yet, there was no mention of this in Singapore as President Trump lavished the North Korean leader with compliments and the two warmly embraced in a showing of unity. The president’s determination to strike a deal on denuclearization must not fail to address the human rights situation there, a core tenant of American foreign policy and identity. The regime’s vast apparatus of repression must be addressed from the beginning of the process, alongside its nuclear weapons and missile programs.” “Because of President Trump’s great leadership on the world stage, he has brought us one step closer to peace and a denuclearized Korean Peninsula,” said Congressman Norman. “I commend the President for this very historic moment, which no other president has been able to accomplish. However, the North Korean regime is notoriously known for their evil, vile human rights abuses against their own people. We cannot let these situations go unnoticed. North Korea must be held accountable for these horrific actions. The lifting of economic sanctions on the country must not occur until Congress can certify that the country denuclearizes and the people of North Korea’s lives are not at risk.” The bill introduced by Reps. Boyle and Norman would provide a multipronged approach to balancing the priorities of denuclearization with proactively addressing the gaping human rights void in North Korea. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Boyle has been a consistent and outspoken proponent of U.S. leadership on matters of human rights across the globe; from Iran to Syria and North Korea. He is co-chair of the bipartisan Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria Caucus, which advocates for national and international efforts to bring justice and accountability to Syria on crimes committed by the Assad regime.
06.11.2018	Washington, DC –Today, Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA) joined Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (D-NY) and Senator Kamala D. Harris (D-CA) to introduce new legislation to establish federal procedures for counting fatalities following a natural disaster. Introduced in both chambers of Congress, their legislation, the Counting Our Unexpected Natural Tragedies’ (COUNT) Victims Act, comes on the heels of disturbing reports suggesting the official death toll in Puerto Rico reflects a dramatic undercount. The lawmakers argued that an accurate death toll is key to allocating federal aid and ensuring improved federal response. "The grossly inaccurate death count from Hurricane Maria’s decimation of Puerto Rico is the ultimate disrespect and culminating offense in the parade of errors, mismanagement, and careless indifference displayed by the Trump Administration during its response to this humanitarian crisis, or lack thereof,”said Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA). “It is beyond unacceptable in the United States of America. I am proud to stand with Congresswoman Velázquez and Senator Harris to introduce commonsense legislation to make sure we do everything in our power to make sure this never happens again. I only wish we could go back in time to correct this wrong this time.” “Whether it be Hurricane Maria or another natural disaster to come, the accuracy of the death toll has a direct impact on an area’s recovery,” said Senator Harris. “We cannot allow our government’s failed response in Puerto Rico to ever happen again. The ability to accurately count victims of natural disasters will give accurate information to grieving communities, and help us understand how we can mitigate the damage of future disasters.” “Death tolls are important. They influence public perception about the scope of a disaster and often determine what federal resources are allocated for response,” said Velázquez. “Tragically, in Puerto Rico, the official death toll has been vastly undercounted, driving a narrative that has enabled the Trump Administration to brag about its response to Maria, while our fellow citizens were dying. This is shameful and it can never happen again. To that end, I am pleased to join with Senator Harris to introduce the COUNT Act, which will help establish federal procedures to efficiently assess death tolls.” The COUNT Act would authorize $2 million for the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to contract with the National Academy of Medicine to conduct a study on how to best assess mortality during and in the aftermath of a natural disaster. Currently, this process is left up to individual states and territories and there is no agreed upon set of best practices to calculate these deaths. On May 29th, the New England Journal of Medicine published a study estimating that 4,645 deaths could be linked to Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico, over 70 times the official death toll of 64. Other estimates by media organizations have suggested the death toll could approach 1,000. Last December, Velázquez joined with the Ranking Democrat on the House Homeland Security Committee to request a Government Accountability Office audit of the death toll from Maria. She has also announced legislation to establish a “9-11 style” Commission to investigate the federal response to the natural disasters in Puerto Rico and to examine whether the response was hampered by an artificially low death count. The legislation was cosponsored on the Senate side by Senators Blumenthal (D-CT), Nelson (D-FL), Gillibrand (D-NY), Warren (D-MA), Markey (D-MA), Menendez (D-NJ), and Carper (D-DE). In the House, the bill was cosponsored by Reps. Boyle (D-PA), Grijalva (D-AZ), Serrano (D-NY) and Thompson (D-MS). “Nobody rebuilding his or her life after a natural disaster should suffer the negligence we’ve seen in Puerto Rico,” said Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ), the Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. “Too many Puerto Rican families are suffering additional burdens today because officials won’t acknowledge their loved ones’ deaths. This bill is a necessary step in understanding and confronting the real impacts of these tragedies. We cannot hope for a competent response to future disasters, on Puerto Rico or elsewhere, if the administration won’t even acknowledge their real human costs.” “The COUNT Act will make sure that we can develop best practices to better understand the impact of natural disasters and the causes of death after these tragic events,” said Congressman José E. Serrano (DNY). “After Hurricane Maria, it is clear we need to revise the way in which we quantify mortality as a result of natural disasters. Doing so will help provide some sense of closure for families and allow them to apply for needed benefits. It will also ensure that we can devote resources to the specific risk factors that increased the death toll after Hurricane Maria- like the electrical grid failure, flooding, and road closures. This will allow us to better protect vulnerable populations.” ###
06.11.2018	Congressman Brendan F. Boyle, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in advance of President Trump’s summit with North Korea’s Kim Jong-Un: With decades of American foreign policy, the legitimization of Kim Jung Un, and global stability on the line, I hope that President Trump has prepared more extensively for the North Korea summit than he has thus far disclosed to the public. President Trump heads into Singapore on the heels of reneging on the Iran nuclear deal, and creating chaos with instigating language at the the G-7 summit in Canada. We should be strengthening our relationships with our allies, not torching them. We should be standing for American principles not sacrificing our identity and making everything negotiable. We must not mistake “deal-making” for diplomatic success. I hope we see a Donald Trump in Singapore that we have not yet seen, and a President who believes in a cohesive U.S. foreign policy. ###
06.04.2018	HARRISBURG, PA – Today, inside the Pennsylvania State Capitol Building, U.S. Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and his brother, PA State Rep. Kevin Boyle (Philadelphia), announced companion legislation to officially change election day nationwide and statewide to the weekend after the first Friday in November in order to increase voting accessibility, engagement, and turnout. “Countless other developed nations around the world currently hold elections on weekends”, said Congressman Brendan F. Boyle. “We have seen time and again, how low voter turnout results in disenfranchisement, frustration and civic apathy. Weekend voting is a proven method that increases accessibility, engagement, and turnout. If work, school or other responsibilities become a roadblock for citizens wishing to exercise their right to vote, then it is the government’s obligation to take steps to ease that burden. It can, and must, create a path to the voting booth for those American citizens who live with such challenges. Weekend voting makes sense, and would only serve to create an unmitigated path to the voting booth that ultimately benefits our democracy.” “The Constitutional right of each citizen to vote is a true example of equality of opportunity”, said Pennsylvania State Representative Kevin J. Boyle. “Our current practice of holding Tuesday elections is dated, ineffective and unrepresentative of a modern societal population. Weekend voting would give Pennsylvania residents a more powerful voice in electing the people who make the laws in the Keystone State that we live under every day. From Essington to Erie—from Scranton to Pittsburgh, weekend voting would benefit citizens in all corners of the state and in every municipality in between. I urge my colleagues here in the state house to join me in supporting this commonsense legislation.” Dating back to 1845, elections in the United States have been held on the Tuesday after the first Monday in November. This practice was established to allow farmers sufficient time to get to their county seat to vote without interfering with the Sabbath (on Sunday) or market day (on Wednesday). Based on recent election results, voter turnout in the United States ranks 26th out of the 32 highly developed and democratic OECD countries in the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) – nations that are primarily considered highly developed, democratic states. In presidential elections from 2000 to 2012, approximately one-fifth of registered voters who did not cast a ballot listed “too busy, conflicting work or school schedule” as their reason for not voting. In 2014, roughly 35% of those who were eligible to vote but did not do so listed scheduling conflicts with work or school as their primary reason for not voting. In the 2016 election, dislike of the candidates and lack of interest surpassed conflicting schedule, but this was still the third highest reason for registered voters deciding not to vote. Congressman Boyle’s legislation carries on the legacy of long-serving Congresswoman Louise Slaughter (NY-30). Congresswoman Slaughter introduced the legislation in 2017 prior to her tragic passing in March of this year. Boyle has been a long-time proponent of this change in policy in order to strengthen our democracy. He is now carrying the torch in the U.S. House and re-named the legislation to honor Slaughter, “The Louise Slaughter Weekend Voting Act.” ###
06.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Bob Brady (PA-1), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) and Dwight Evans (PA-2) joined together on a letter to U.S. House Speaker Paul Ryan and Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi demanding federal funding to correct the deplorable and dangerous conditions in Philadelphia schools recently elevated by a series of articles published in the Philadelphia inquirer. The reporting detailed atrocious school conditions, including students being exposed to lead dust, asbestos and rodent waste in Philadelphia public schools. The three members of the Philadelphia congressional delegation urged House leadership to address these horrific conditions immediately, in Philadelphia and countless other school systems across the country, by dedicating federal funding for school maintenance in any future infrastructure legislation. “Philadelphia has too many outdated and unsafe public school buildings,” said Congressman Brady. “Students and teachers are exposed on a daily basis to lead dust and paint, asbestos and rodent infestation. Philadelphia needs aggressive Federal support. In spite of best efforts, local and state tax revenues are not adequate. As a delegation we request desperately needed funding support.” “The conditions detailed in the Philadelphia Inquirer are nothing short of unconscionable and unacceptable in the United States of America,” said Congressman Boyle. “No parent should have to question the basic safety of the school they send their child to each day, and no child should have to battle mold, rodent waste and deadly asbestos in a space in which they should safe to learn and grow. Decisive, immediate action must be taken to address these horrific conditions, at every level of government.” “We know in order to build a brighter future for every student in our city we must make sure all of our public schools are safe learning environments that are free of any and all health hazards. Too many of our students, teachers and parents are at great risk of facing real, life-threatening health challenges due to the current conditions within our public schools. Our students deserve better. It is entirely unacceptable for our students to be expected to succeed in classrooms that are crumbling right before their very eyes,” Congressman Evans said. TEXT of the members’ letter can be found below and by clicking HERE: Dear Speaker Ryan and Leader Pelosi, We write to highlight our serious concern over the dire condition of many of our nation’s schools, including those we represent in Philadelphia. We strongly urge you to take aggressive, immediate action to address this critical problem by including a major investment of federal funds for school maintenance in any infrastructure plan. We believe such investment is long overdue, and failing to do so directly threatens the health and safety of communities across the country. A highly disturbing series of articles published recently in the Philadelphia Inquirer described in graphic terms the poor conditions of many of Philadelphia’s schools, and the resultant exposure to lead dust and paint, asbestos, rodent waste and mold that school children and their teachers experience every day. It is well known that exposure to many of these elements can lead to tragic short- and long-term health complications. A school should be a safe space for learning and growth. No student or teacher should be subjected to such abhorrent and unsafe conditions. Unfortunately, these conditions are not unique to Philadelphia. Public schools are the bedrock of our nation’s educational system. Not only do they educate our students in order to compete in the global economy, but they also provide important supplemental programming, such as afterschool sports programs that help our students learn and grow. It is clear that public schools play an important role in the physical and cognitive development of our nation’s children; however, despite their importance, inadequate funding has led to outdated and unsafe school buildings. Thus, far too many of our students are forced to go to schools with crumbling infrastructure, which exposes them and their teachers on a daily basis to serious health and safety hazards. While the responsibility for school buildings has historically fallen on local school boards and their taxpayers, the problems have risen to a level that we cannot ignore or brush off as merely a local problem. Many superintendents and school boards cannot generate adequate local and state tax revenues to meet the ongoing maintenance needs, no less renovate and replace buildings. These local leaders are asking for federal help – for a modest and targeted federal investment to leverage local and state funds to address at least the most extreme of these conditions in the school districts that need it the most. The impact of failing to address this dire need will be compounded. As these schools age further and fall into even worse repair, the costs of addressing them will exponentially increase, ultimately ensuring the need may never be met. The result will expose another generation of children to serious health risks and poor learning environments. We urge you to include a major investment of federal funds for school buildings in any infrastructure plan the Administration and Congress pursues, and to make this an urgent legislative priority this year. Thank you for your consideration of our views, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Congressmen Brady, Boyle and Evans ###
05.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle, Co-Chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court decision in Janus vs. AFSCME issued by the Court today: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is anti-worker and anti-union. It is a victory for those wealthy special interests trying to crush unions. Labor unions have been essential to the growth of the American middle class. Our history proves this. All employees benefit from collective bargaining regardless of their financial contribution to their union, period. Falsely disguised by interest groups as a matter of fairness to free-riding employees, the Court’s decision today will only exacerbate the obstacles faced by workers as pay and benefits become more stagnant.” Under federal labor law, unions have to represent everyone, members or not. Workers who object to a union’s political activities don’t have to pay for them. Prior to today’s decision, they could be required to pay a fair-share or agency fee to cover the union’s costs for collective bargaining and representing individual employees. Now, public sector unions must continue to advocate for the rights and benefits of all employees, but each employee does not have to pay the fair-share or agency fees that cover the cost of securing these rights and benefits. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13)’s amendment to the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) encouraging greater international cooperation to address hybrid threats. Hybrid threats are identified as those that blend conventional warfare with newer, irregular tactics like cyber attacks. Boyle has been a consistent advocate for addressing hybrid threats as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and lead sponsor of H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act. “Hybrid warfare is emerging as the greatest defense challenge of the 21st century,” said Congressman Boyle. “Adversaries like the Kremlin have increasingly resorted to these hybrid tactics in an attempt to undermine democracies, including our own. Addressing this challenge requires a coordinated global effort in partnership with our allies who frequently face these same threats. Today, I’m proud that the House affirmed this basic truth and made clear that the United States is stronger and more effective in addressing hybrid threats when we lead the charge in close coordination with our partners around the world.” As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Boyle also serves on the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade as well as the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa. The NDAA now awaits final passage in the Senate. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13)’s amendment to the Fiscal Year 2019 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) requiring the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense to jointly submit a report on Russia’s support for the Taliban and other destabilizing activities in Afghanistan. The report would be sent to the House and Senate Armed Services Committees, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. Boyle is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “Time and again Russia has proven to the world that it is more interested in skirting international norms and rules of diplomacy to fuel instability and destabilize governments,” said Congressman Boyle. “For many decades, malignant activity with Russian fingerprints has slithered its way into Afghanistan and aided the Taliban, to the detriment of American forces and efforts to achieve peace and stability there. The reports that my amendment would require will serve as a strategic tool to address this subversive activity before it becomes a diplomatic crisis, or worse. Our military and overseas diplomats must be given the information and tools to operate and succeed in their assignments proactively in order to stave off military conflict from a reactionary posture.” Congressman Boyle also serves as a Member of the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade and the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa. The NDAA now awaits consideration and passage in the Senate. ###
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13)’s amendment to require the U.S. State Department to report to Congress on it efforts to establish cyber security cooperation between the United States and Ukraine as part of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2019. The amendment is modeled off Boyle’s bipartisan bill, H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act, which passed the House on February 7, 2018 by a vote of 404-3. The amendment now advances as part of the NDAA; must-pass legislation enacted annually which awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate. Specifically, the amendment reaffirms the United States-Ukraine Charter on Strategic Partnership and the importance of the bilateral relationship, and specifies areas for enhanced cooperation such as defense, security, economics and trade. It also promotes continued cooperation between NATO and Ukraine, as well as Ukraine’s political and economic reforms. Congressman Boyle released the following statement upon passage of his amendment: “For far too long, Russia has been using Ukraine as a field test for cyber attacks that endanger the national security of our great ally Ukraine, its regional neighbors, and the United States. This legislation will assist Ukraine’s efforts to enhance its cybersecurity capabilities, and improve Ukraine’s ability to respond to Russian-supported disinformation and propaganda efforts in cyberspace, including through social media and other outlets.” Ukraine has been repeatedly targeted by cyber attacks as a part of ongoing aggression from neighboring Russia. Congressman Boyle has been an outspoken advocate for robust U.S.-Ukraine relations since elected to Congress. He serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and its Subcommittee on the Middle East and North African, and Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement regarding the Trump administration’s apparent indifference toward Northern Ireland and the Good Friday Agreement during BREXIT’s final stages. Congressman Boyle sits on the House Foreign Affairs Committee (HFAC) where a tense exchange occurred between him and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo as the Secretary was testifying before the bipartisan committee. A link to their exchange can be found HERE. After the hearing, Congressman Boyle issued the following statement: “It is beyond concerning that Secretary of State Mike Pompeo demonstrated no knowledge and little concern for a bipartisan letter from 32 members of Congress requesting the State Department’s appointment of a Special Envoy to Northern Ireland to ensure protection of the historic Good Friday Agreement during ongoing BREXIT negotiations. As I have stated before and clearly reiterated during today’s hearing, the United States must oppose the re-establishment of a hard border between the six counties of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. The appointment of a Special Envoy would provide a strategic diplomatic presence in the midst of ongoing and unpredictable BREXIT negotiations – just as previous Special Envoys have been in the drafting and implementation of the Good Friday Agreement. Yet, this administration has not even appointed an ambassador to Ireland. President Trump’s apparent lack of concern for the situation in Northern Ireland is frustrating and, frankly, threatens peace there.” ###
05.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA) and Brian K. Fitzpatrick (R-PA) led a bipartisan letter demanding the release of a study on the human health effects of perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) that was recently suppressed by EPA staff out of concern for negative public relations. The letter also demands an explanation for the study’s suppression. The study, conducted by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) reportedly concluded that PFOS and PFOA can cause human harm at a much lower level of exposure than previously acknowledged by EPA. These chemicals have threatened the drinking water of some 70,000 residents in Bucks and Montgomery Counties surrounding Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station due to the use of “AFFF” firefighting foam on site. “Americans have a right to safe drinking water. For years we have been fighting to bring the full force of the federal government to bear on this issue, and to provide impacted communities with the information and resources they deserve. It is beyond unacceptable to see P.R. and political considerations get in the way,” said Congressman Boyle. “EPA must assume its role to protect public health and the environment, no matter how politically sensitive the subject. Impacted communities should feel confident relying upon taxpayer-funded research for public health guidance, and EPA staff should understand their primary responsibility is to further public health and safety.” “My constituents have a right to clean, safe drinking water and they deserve to know if exposure to PFOS and PFOA has compromised their long-term health,” said Congressman Fitzpatrick. “I am troubled to hear that exposure to these chemicals could be even more dangerous for our sensitive populations than previously thought. It would be unacceptable if the political considerations of those at the highest levels of the EPA led to the suppression of information concerning the public health of Americans. The EPA must provide my constituents with answers to these reports immediately.” The letter was signed by the following Members of Congress: Boyle, Fitzpatrick, King, Welch, Tonko, Shea-Porter, Neal, Kildee, Maloney, Keating, Lieu, DeGette, McMorris Rodgers, Heck. Ameliorating PFOS and PFOA drinking water contamination has been a top priority for Congressman Boyle throughout his tenure in Congress. Boyle led the fight to increase Department of Defense funding for PFOS and PFOA remediation, fully fund the ATSDR, and require and fully fund a health effects study. Boyle is also the lead sponsor of bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3106, to require the EPA to set an enforceable, nationwide primary drinking water standard for PFCs including PFOS and PFOA. EPA is currently considering this course of action under the Safe Drinking Water Act, with a preliminary decision anticipated next year. ####
05.08.2018	In 2015, I was one of 25 House Democrats to vote against the Iran nuclear deal (the JCPOA) because I believe it left too many important matters on the table. I was concerned by the amount of money that would be released to the regime and inevitably used for terrorism, rather than the Iranian people. I believed inspections could have been more stringent. I did not support the deal’s timetable. However, the deal was debated, advanced, and was ultimately signed by the United States, China, Russia, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom upon the agreement to act in unison as allies to hold Iran to the deal or else impose severe consequences. Today, our alternative is not a “better deal”; it’s no deal. Unilaterally withdrawing now means undermining U.S. credibility on this and other related matters of world order, like denuclearizing North Korea; losing all access to international inspections of Iran’s nuclear activities; and giving the Iranians an excuse to race towards a nuclear bomb, this time with a large cash flow in hand. After I voted against the deal, it nonetheless went into effect. Rather than sit back and be counterproductive, I pledged to work to hold Iran to every corner of the deal and push to strengthen it at every single opportunity to address matters outside its scope, including: Iran’s support for terrorism, its ballistic missiles program, and its atrocious human rights record. I’ve also pushed for supplemental agreements in the next 10-15 years before the current agreement’s sunsets. Today, in light of where we stand, this should be our focus. Instead, the Trump administration is once again playing fast and loose politics with U.S. foreign policy, ceding American leadership, and creating a self-induced crisis. Key limitations in the JCPOA won’t expire for many years, meaning we have time to address the deal’s failings and strengthen it rather than simply rip it up and renege on our commitments. Rather than negotiate a better deal as he promised, the President has pulled us away from the negotiating table altogether – without a comprehensive policy or plan in place to fall back on. Acting as though Iran will negotiate with the United States all over again or relying upon the Europeans to fix this crisis without a backup plan in place is wrong, misguided, and reckless.
05.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle and Congressman Adam Kinzinger, Members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chairs of the Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria, wrote to President Trump urging him to immediately release funding to the White Helmets, a volunteer group that has tirelessly rescued people caught in bombings, airstrikes and other attacks in Syria since the start of the war there in 2011, and nominated for the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize for this work. It was recently reported that the State Department froze U.S. funding for the group. “It is deeply troubling that the administration would withhold funding from such an important humanitarian group engaged in the Syrian conflict at a time when this work is needed more than ever. This funding literally saves lives,” said Rep. Boyle. “I personally met with a group of White Helmets and I continue to be amazed by their bravery. The President must release these funds or provide a thorough justification to Congress for withholding them,” added Boyle. The full letter is available here. ###
05.02.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Following comments last week from President Trump calling Kim Jong Un “very honorable,” Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced legislation urging the administration to uphold American values and not neglect North Korea’s human rights record during negotiations with the Kim regime. “Today, I introduced legislation to remind the White House that negotiations with North Korea must honor U.S. values and demonstrate concern for human rights and the welfare of the North Korean people. There is nothing ‘very honorable’ about a brutal dictator who starves his own people and murders his political opponents.” Boyle continued, “Last April, I met with defectors from North Korea and listened to their painful, horrifying stories. President Trump must realize that his words have consequences. Negotiating peace with North Korea is an important breakthrough, but in doing so, we should not normalize the atrocities of the Kim regime.” Congressman Boyle serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is a member of the Subcommittees on Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade and the Middle East and North Africa. ###
03.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) secured nearly $100 million in new funding for environmental restoration and health studies to support communities that are dealing with contaminated drinking water containing perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) including perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) and perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) – including those surrounding the former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in Horsham, Horsham Air Guard Station, and Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster – as a result of the Department of Defense’s decades-long use of aqueous film forming foam (AFFF) as a fire suppressant, which contains the chemicals. These chemical compounds have been found by a growing volume of peer-reviewed studies to be associated with serious health risks in humans, including certain types of cancers and impaired immune system performance. Highly fluorinated chemicals are found in the bodies of 98% of Americans. The funding was included in the final Omnibus spending bill, signed into law by President Trump on Friday, after first being authorized as part of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 and included in the House-passed Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018 last summer after a series of hard-fought votes. In particular, the legislation includes $72 million to fund environmental restoration ($42 million for the Navy and $30 million for the Air Force), $10 million to fund a nationwide CDC health study, and $10 million to implement a new biomonitoring program. Upon becoming law, Congressman Boyle released the following statement: “Americans have a right to clean, safe drinking water. Yet, throughout Southeastern Pennsylvania and across the country, families living near military bases and industrial sites continue to suffer health impacts and immense uncertainties as a result of water contamination associated with PFOS and PFOA,” said Congressman Boyle. “I am pleased to take the fight for this new funding over the finish line and see the President sign it into law, but this is only a first step. The need for action, answers, and funding only grows with our understanding of the scope of the issue and its potential impacts. From the DoD to the EPA, I won’t stop fighting to bring the full force of the federal government to bear.” Ameliorating drinking water contamination has been a top priority for Congressman Boyle throughout his tenure in Congress. In June, Boyle re-introduced his bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3106, that would require the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set an enforceable, nationwide primary drinking water standard for PFCs including PFOS and PFOA. In September, the House adopted Congressman Boyle’s amendment to provide $1.9 million additional funding for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Diseases Registry (ATSDR), the agency heading local medical testing and health studies in response to water contamination stemming from the use of AFFF firefighting chemicals. In November, the House passed Boyle’s amendment to authorize the additional federal spending to remediate the contamination. The package also authorized funding for a nationwide study on health effects of these chemicals, to be conducted by the CDC, and mandated a Department of Defense study and report to Congress on finding safer, effective alternatives to the firefighting foam that caused the contamination that Boyle enacted by amendment. ###
03.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Christopher Smith (R-NJ-04) and Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) sent a letter urging the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) to abandon its current proposal to outsource federal oversight of facilities regulated by the Animal Welfare Act (AWA) to private industry. This proposal would seriously compromise the integrity of the AWA inspection process and undermine protections for millions of animals at commercial breeding operations, medical laboratories, zoos, and other facilities across the country, as well as raise consumer and public safety concerns by allowing regulated industries the power to choose which facilities warrant agency oversight. The bipartisan letter to the USDA was co-led by Reps. Ryan Costello (R-PA-06), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR-03), Carlos Curbelo (R-FL-26), Lucille Roybal-Allard (D-CA-40), Lou Barletta (R-PA-11), Carol Shea-Porter (D-NH-01), Tom Marino (R-PA-10), and Ted Lieu (D-CA-33), and signed by a total of 77 House Members representing 23 states (AZ, CA, CO, CT, FL, IL, KY, MA, MD, MI, NH, NJ, NV, NY, OR, PA, RI, TN, TX, VA, VT, WA, and WI), along with the District of Columbia and Guam. “The USDA is proposing to abandon one of its core responsibilities to oversee the humane treatment of animals, as required by federal law,” said Congressman Boyle. “Coming on the heels of its purge of inspection reports from the web, the USDA is aiming to create a complete free-for-all. Especially when it comes to safety and cruelty, we cannot allow regulated industries to police themselves. I am committed to fighting this harmful plan and proud to help lead this bicameral effort.” “The USDA’s proposal undercuts transparency and oversight regarding treatment of animals, and could very well lead to more abuse,” Congressman Smith said. “Outsourcing animal welfare oversight hasn’t worked, as demonstrated by the plight of the Tennessee walking horses. To date, self-policing in this industry has hindered critical oversight of animal facilities and enabled systemic animal abuse to fester.” “Outsourcing inspections of puppy mills, roadside zoos, labs and other facilities is a terrible idea that has rightly drawn strong bipartisan opposition on Capitol Hill and by an overwhelming share of citizens at USDA's ‘listening sessions’ on this proposal,” said Sara Amundson, President, Humane Society Legislative Fund. “We commend Representatives Smith and Boyle for their leadership, and hope USDA heeds the message: animals and taxpayers deserve real enforcement of the Animal Welfare Act, and industry self-policing doesn't work.” The USDA proposal would recognize private, third party inspections and certifications when determining the frequency of federal inspections for facilities regulated under the Animal Welfare Act (AWA). Coupled with the agency’s decision last year to purge inspection reports from its website, relying on third party inspections would result in a lack of transparency and consistency, both regarding the welfare of animals at licensed facilities and the rigorousness of the enforcement of the AWA. The Members of Congress urged USDA to instead work to provide greater transparency, tighten its enforcement and licensing standards, and streamline its procedures for cracking down on animal cruelty. The full letter can be found HERE.
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, a bipartisan measure authored by Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) and Ryan Costello (R-PA-6), Co-Chairs of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Caucus, to fix a glitch in the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) program was signed into law as part of the Omnibus Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2018. The PSLF Technical Corrections Act, H.R. 4399, will relieve a significant financial burden for those who thought they were enrolled in the PSLF program to reduce the burden of their student loan debt after 120 on-time student loan payments during full-time public service employment – but mistakenly enrolled in repayment plans that caused them to pay more than the PSLF program would have required. Under current law, they would be disqualified from the program. Now that key provisions of H.R. 4399 have been enacted, they will be grandfathered into the program so long as the Department of Education verifies they did not pay less than the program required, and they otherwise fulfilled all of the program’s requirements. The PLSF program forgives the balance of federal student loans for public servants like teachers, social workers, and law enforcement after years of service and timely repayment. Congress established the program in 2007 to help public servants pursue sometimes lower-paying careers serving their communities despite the crippling burden of student debt. The program allows borrowers to erase the balance of their student debt after working for a nonprofit or government employer for 10 years and making 120 qualifying loan payments. Due to complex program requirements, some borrowers believe they are making qualifying payments under the program only to find out that in fact they are not, as profiled in the New York Times. “The Public Service Loan Forgiveness program is an investment in public servants who dedicate their careers to serving their fellow Americans despite financial obstacles,” said Congressman Boyle. “It creates an incentive to draw top-talent into the ranks of public service and offers a path out from the crushing burden of student debt. It was wrong to disqualify individuals who did everything right except paying the federal government more than they had to. I am proud to have led the fight for this correction as a matter of fundamental fairness, and will continue to combat efforts to limit or end PSLF. We should be providing every lifeline we can to hardworking individuals faithfully repaying their loans – especially those dutifully serving their communities in public service careers – not imposing bureaucratic barriers.” “Many teachers, first responders, and law enforcement officers are working hard to make a difference in their communities and also working towards student loan forgiveness under the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program,” said Congressman Costello. “In some instances, borrowers are making good-faith payments toward PSLF while unknowingly enrolled in a plan that does not qualify. Our public servants should not be penalized for administrative glitches that were no fault of their own, and I am glad to see provisions from our legislation enacted so that loan forgiveness these borrowers have been working toward will be honored.” Congressmen Boyle and Costello serve as Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Public Service Loan Forgiveness Caucus in the House which is leading the charge to preserve this program from efforts to terminate it. ####
03.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A bipartisan measure authored by Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) aimed at providing a boost of education aid for the children of fallen law enforcement and first responders who have died in the line of duty was signed into law today. The language of the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act [H.R. 949], included in the recent federal spending agreement, eliminates the expected family contribution used to determine Pell Grant eligibility for children of first responders who have died in the line of duty, providing eligible students the ability to receive up to the maximum Pell award each year. “We owe our fallen heroes and their families an eternal debt of gratitude,” said Boyle. “When an officer makes the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty, their family has made the ultimate sacrifice, too. This important legislation will help to ease the crushing burden of student loan debt for those family members of our fallen heroes. It’s the least we can do for public servants who have given everything to protect our communities. We’ve been fighting for this legislation since I first came to Congress. I am so proud to finally see it through to the finish line.” “As a member of the law enforcement community for nearly a decade and a half, I know firsthand the service and sacrifice of our nation’s first responders. While we can never repay those who laid down their lives in the line of duty, we can make it our priority to support their families and their children,” said Fitzpatrick. “This bipartisan legislation will ease the financial burden on the families of our community’s fallen heroes. This has been a top priority of mine to support our first responders and their families, and I’m thrilled that we’ve gotten this bill across the finish line for them.” The Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act is endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, International Association of Fire Fighters, National Association of Police Organizations, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, Major Cities of Chiefs of Police, Major Cities Chiefs Association, Major County Sheriffs’ Association, National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition, and Sergeants Benevolent Association NYPD. Pennsylvania Senators Bob Casey and Pat Toomey had introduced companion legislation in the Senate. What they’re saying about the bill: • Fraternal Order of Police: “In 2016, 140 law enforcement officers lost their lives in the United States. That’s 140 officers who will never be able to see their families again. While no amount of financial assistance can replace a loved one, providing children of fallen officers with Federal Pell Grants for their college education is a noble act.” - ChuckCanterbury, National President • International Association of Firefighters: “On behalf of the nation’s 300,000 professional firefighters and emergency medical responders, I support the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act. The IAFF has long recognized the tremendous financial hardships that the families of our nation’s fallen firefighters and emergency medical responders endure. While we are never able to bring back the fallen, we may take steps to assist the survivors as they journey through life without their loved one. A step in the right direction is to relieve the surviving family of the heavy financial contributions associated with qualifying for Pell Grants to provide higher education for the children of our fallen heroes. While the debt owed to the surviving family will never be fully repaid, I am certain that this legislation will provide a welcome relief to the surviving family members of our fallen firefighters and emergency medical responders.” - Harold A. Schaitberger, General President • National Association of Police Organizations: “While we will never forget that these brave men and women made the ultimate sacrifice, we must also remember the immense burden that their families bear as a result of their loss. These families face financial difficulties that often result in their being unable to send their children to college. NAPO supports the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act because it would help take away a financial burden for these families and honor fallen officers by expanding access to higher education funding for their children.” - Mick McHale, President • Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association Foundation:“Any law enforcement officer that dies in the line of duty leaves behind a family that should be honored and cared for. The Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act‎ is a step toward our nation fulfilling its obligation to care for these families and the children left behind.” - Donald J. Mihalek, Executive Vice President • Major Cities Chiefs Association: “The men and women of American law enforcement are deeply grateful for the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act. This meaningful legislation recognizes those on the front lines who have taken an oath to serve the American people. Police families will know that Congress has not forgotten their sacrifice, and all they have given to our country.” - Chief of Police J. Thomas Manger, President • Sergeants Benevolent Association of the New York City Police Department: “Our nation’s public safety officers do the jobs most of us can't or won't, day in and day out, and we willingly place ourselves in harm’s way without fanfare, recognition, or expectation of reward. When an officer makes the ultimate sacrifice while working to keep our communities safe, we have no higher obligation than to ensure that their families are provided for. This is why the SBA is grateful for the leadership of Representatives Fitzpatrick and Boyle to reintroduce the ‘Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act’ and we look forward to working with them to see it enacted into law.”‎ - Ed Mullins, President ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to news that President Trump has appointed Ambassador John Bolton as National Security Advisor. “John Bolton is a dangerous radical. President Trump’s decision to make Bolton his National Security Advisor is deeply disturbing. John Bolton has spent his entire career pushing fringe conspiracy theories, espousing radical ideas about multilateralism, and undermining key alliances across the world. He helped recklessly drive our country into the Iraq War and has been credibly accused of manipulating U.S. intelligence to do so. He was bounced out of the George W. Bush administration because he was too extreme even for them. I strongly oppose this appointment and urge the President to reconsider. The last place John Bolton should be is sitting next to the President of the United States advising him on matters of war and peace. Congressman Boyle is also a member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa as well as the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. ###
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced the Iran Responsible Reporting Act to punish the widespread corruption within Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC). In particular, the bill would amend existing law to require reporting on efforts by other countries to sanction Iran for human rights and ballistic missile violations. It would also authorize a summit among major trading partners of Iran to address the issue of IRGC front companies. After introducing the bill, Congressman Boyle released the following statement: “For too long, the Islamic Revolutionary Guard of Iran has gotten away with a culture of corruption at its highest levels. At a time when Iranians are firmly stepping up to demand a more democratic political system, the U.S. must have no tolerance for those in Iran who threaten basic freedoms and misrepresent the will of the Iranian people. Today, I have introduced legislation that sends a clear signal of US leadership on this issue. This bill is commonsense: it requires reporting on the work our allies do to check the IRGC’s corrupt behavior and brings our partners to the table to foster cooperation in bringing the IRGC to justice at this critical time.” Congressman Boyle serves as a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. He also serves on the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade, and the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa. ###
03.21.2018	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, the House Democratic Blue Collar Caucus co-chaired by Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Marc Veasey (TX-33) hosted former Vice President Joe Biden for a meeting on Capitol Hill. The discussion focused on how House Democrats can promote an economic agenda that supports American workers and win back blue collar voters across the country. After the meeting, Vice President Joe Biden and Caucus CoChairs Boyle and Veasey released the following statements: “The American middle class built this country, and has underwritten the political and social stability we have enjoyed for over 200 years. But today we are not paying enough attention to their legitimate concerns,” said Vice President Biden. “You know, there used to be a basic bargain in this country: that those who contributed to the success of an enterprise got to share in the benefits. But that bargain has been broken. Working people are not being dealt in. I appreciate the opportunity to share my ideas and hear from the Blue Collar Caucus about their work to pass legislation that will improve the lives of middle class families across this country and once again earn the trust of hardworking Americans.” “We were honored to welcome Vice President Joe Biden back to Capitol Hill," said Congressman Boyle. "He is the quintessential champion of the working man and woman; the epitome of what our caucus is all about. We founded the Blue Collar Caucus in the wake of the 2016 election out of our shared recognition of the symptoms Vice President Biden has been talking about for years: Americans have lost faith in their elected leaders' capacity to stand up for their interests and promote their prosperity, and blue collar workers feel betrayed by today's economy and political system. It is our goal to re-connect with them and reclaim their trust in us as their true champions. With the support of the Vice President, we can renew their faith in this country, restore an economic and political system that puts working class Americans first, and win at the ballot box.” Congressman Veasey added, “I was honored to hear directly from Vice President Joe Biden on how Democrats can continue the momentum after Pennsylvania Congressional District 18 and re-engage with blue collar and union workers. With his vision and genuine passion for ensuring the American Dream for all workers, we have the ability to reassert ourselves as the champions for all working Americans.” The Blue Collar Caucus has grown to nearly 50 members, including: Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), Dave Loebsack (IA-2), Anthony Brown (MD-4), Alma Adams (NC-12), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-3), Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2), Julia Brownley (CA-26), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Alcee L. Hastings (FL-20), Grace Meng (NY-06), Nydia Velazquez (NY-07), Bob Brady (PA-01), Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Donald M. Payne, Jr. (NJ-10). ###
03.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – This week, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) led bipartisan letters to the leadership of the House Appropriations Committee advocating for funding and regulatory action to support communities that are dealing with contaminated drinking water containing perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) including perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS). These compounds have been found by a growing volume of peer-reviewed studies to be associated with serious health risks in humans, including certain types of cancers and impaired immune system performance. Highly fluorinated chemicals are found in the bodies of 98% of Americans. The communities surrounding Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania are experiencing contamination as a result of the Department of Defense’s decades-long use of aqueous forming foam (AFFF) as a fire suppressant, which contains the chemicals. These efforts are a continuation of the bipartisan House response that began in 2016. Boyle led the House effort to secure an additional $72 million to remediate the contamination and mandate a DOD study and report to Congress on finding safer, effective alternatives to the firefighting foam that caused the contamination. He also helped enact language authorizing a CDC nationwide health study. Now, Boyle is leading the fight to fund the study, and also leading the fight to require the EPA to strictly regulate these chemicals under the Safe Drinking Water Act in accordance with legislation he introduced, H.R. 3106. “Throughout Southeastern Pennsylvania and across the country, Americans living near military bases and industrial sites continue to suffer health impacts and immense uncertainties as a result of water contamination associated with PFOS and PFOA,” said Congressman Boyle. “I was proud to pass bipartisan legislation last year to generate new funding and information about this issue. I won’t stop fighting. Those affected deserve more answers to their questions, and the federal government must assume its responsibilities to address this issue comprehensively, and head on. The need for action only grows with our understanding of the magnitude of the problem.” Ameliorating drinking water contamination has been a top priority for Congressman Boyle throughout his tenure in Congress. In September, the House adopted Congressman Boyle’s amendment to provide $1.9 million additional funding for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Diseases Registry (ATSDR), the agency heading local medical testing and health studies in response to water contamination stemming from the use of AFFF firefighting chemicals. In June, Boyle re-introduced his bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3106, that would require the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to set an enforceable, nationwide primary drinking water standard for PFCs. In November, the House also passed Boyle’s amendment to authorize higher federal spending to remediate the contamination ($42 million for the Navy and $30 million for the Air Force). The package also authorized $7 million in funding for a nationwide study on health effects of PFCs (including PFOA and PFOS), the chemical compounds contained in the firefighting foams, to be conducted by the CDC, and mandated a Department of Defense study and report to Congress on finding safer, effective alternatives to the firefighting foam that caused the contamination that Boyle enacted by amendment. ###
03.19.2018	PHILADELPHIA, PA – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Philadelphia City Council President Darrell L. Clarke and 9th District Councilwoman Cherelle Parker joined with Olney neighborhood stakeholders and business owners to condemn President Trump’s reckless 2019 Budget proposal and the damaging effects it would have on the business corridor that comprises the North 5th Street section of Philadelphia. The President’s proposed FY19 Budget could eliminate critical Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funding that has been pivotal to the the North 5th Street Revitalization Project and the ongoing resurgence of the business corridor along North 5th Street. The Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) program provides flexible financial assistance to economically distressed areas. “The President’s reckless budget would eliminate the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) which many of the business owners and community leaders here in Olney reply upon – along with countless other lifelines to middle class communities like Olney across the country,” said Congressman Boyle. “Community stakeholders, merchants and residents have all seen the benefits of the CDBG funding that has helped make this corridor a better place to live and work. If the President gets his way and this budget is enacted into law, it would sabotage their progress; the improved quality of life and increase in jobs that we’ve seen here would slip away. I will do everything in my power in the House Budget Committee and on the floor of Congress to fight any cuts to CDBG funding at the Federal Level.” “None of the promises this president has made with regard to infrastructure investments have materialized. The message of his budget is clear: That when it comes to investing in communities, cities and states are on their own,” Council President Clarke said. “The small businesses and residents of Olney, a wonderful neighborhood, deserve to be recognized and supported by government, not knocked down. I am grateful to Congressman Boyle for standing with Philadelphians and for continuing to fight for the investments our communities deserve.” “The revitalization in Olney is real and that growth is due, in part, to the thriving North 5th Street commercial corridor, one of the city’s longest and most ethnically diverse,” said Councilwoman Parker. “The North 5th Street Revitalization Project, which relies heavily on CDBG dollars, has worked extremely hard to welcome new businesses, make sure the corridor is inviting and to provide resources to business owners. That progress is under attack in President Trump’s proposed budget, but I commend Congressman Boyle for continuing to stand up and fight to protect our communities.” In Philadelphia, CDBG currently supports more than 20 programs. In addition to corridor revitalization it also supports outreach that includes financial counseling and helping homeless families with security deposits for apartments. In the past, CDBG funds have helped the North 5th Street Revitalization project pay for: Litter removal campaigns that cleared away more than 2,000 bags of trash from the streets of the neighborhood Street and sidewalk repair Revitalization of 12 storefronts on North 5th Street, the main section of the neighborhood ###
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Marc Veasey (TX-33) and Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), co-chairs of the Blue Collar Caucus, released the following statement after Democrat Conor Lamb connected with blue collar workers in a special election for Pennsylvania’s 18th Congressional District: “Last night’s results are a true testament to what Democrats can achieve when we re-connect with, listen to, and stand by blue collar and union workers. President Trump’s long list of broken promises is starting to catch up with him and Conor Lamb showed that demonstrating a commitment to the labor movement’s goals of achieving better lives for the working class is not just the right thing to do, but the key to victory.” Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08)a, Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), Dave Loebsack (IA-2), Anthony Brown (MD-4), Alma Adams (NC-12), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-3), and Ann McLane Kuster (NH-2). ###
03.13.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to the firing of Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. “Rex Tillerson never stood a chance. From day one, President Trump has undermined him on Twitter, criticized him publicly, and prevented him from having a seat at the table with foreign leaders. Under Tillerson’s leadership, the State Department has been sidelined and America’s role on the world stage has diminished. Today’s firing reflects the fact that this White House is in a complete state of chaos. Nearly forty members of Trump’s Administration have been fired or resigned. As a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I wish Mr. Pompeo luck and look forward to working with him in hopes of re-empowering the State Department. No matter his capabilities, however, I fear that this President lacks the temperament to work successfully with any Secretary of State. This has grave implications for American diplomacy and leadership.” Congressman Boyle serves as a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. He is a member of the Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa as well as the Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade.
03.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) led a letter joined by 18 House Democrats to United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) Director L. Francis Cissna opposing the agency’s recent decision to remove the words “United States as a nation of immigrants” from its mission statement. After sending the letter, Boyle released the following statement: “This decision by USCIS to remove reference to our proud history and identity as a ‘nation of immigrants’ from its mission statement is highly offensive, inconsistent with our country’s longstanding policy, and alarming because if the message it sends the world. It seems Director Cissna needs a history lesson: America is in fact a nation of immigrants. The agency charged with administering our immigration laws should understand this, and be proud of this heritage. Instead, USCIS and the Trump Administration continue to ignore the overwhelmingly positive role immigrants have always played in American life, and drive a wedge between immigrants and native-born Americans. I urge the Director to explain this decision to Congress immediately.” Boyle was joined on the letter by Rep. Donald S. Beyer Jr. (VA-08), Rep. Steve Cohen (TN-09), Rep. Nanette Diaz Barragán (CA-44), Rep. Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), Rep. Raul M. Grijalva (AZ-03), Rep. Luis V. Gutiérrez (IL-04), Rep. Colleen Hanabusa (HI-01), Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX-18), Rep. Pramila Jayapal (WA-07), Rep. William R. Keating (MA-09), Rep. James P. McGovern (MA-02), Rep. Linda T. Sánchez (CA-38), Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Rep. José Serrano (NY-15), Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), Rep. Darren Soto (FL-09), Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-51) and Rep. Nydia M. Velázquez (NY-07). The Members called on Director Cissna to explain this decision to Congress and reverse course on this change. The full letter can be found HERE.
03.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night, the U.S. Senate passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle’s (PA-13) bill, H.R. 2873, to designate the post office at 207 Glenside Avenue in Wyncote, PA as the “Staff Sergeant Peter Taub Post Office Building.” Sergeant Taub, a fallen hero from Congressman Boyle’s district, made the ultimate sacrifice for his country when a suicide bomber took his life in Afghanistan in December 2015. The House of Representatives passed this legislation on November 15, 2017. The President is expected to sign this bill into law soon. “Staff Sergeant Peter Taub’s story is one of unwavering patriotism and heroic bravery,” said Congressman Boyle. “He served with great honor and made the ultimate sacrifice for our nation. Renaming this post office in his home town is the least we can do to recognize his bravery; a small but important symbol of our eternal thanks. For the family of Sergeant Taub and the many Americans touched by his story, I commend and thank my colleagues in the House and Senate for helping me pass this bill and call upon the President to sign it into law as soon as possible.” Sergeant Taub is survived by his wife Christina, their 3 year old daughter Penelope, and another daughter, Petra, born after his death in the summer of 2016. His mother, Arlene Wagner, owns Bub and Pop’s sandwich shop in Washington, DC, a gathering place well-loved by members of Congressman Boyle’s staff. After his death, President Barack Obama paid tribute to Sergeant Taub and the five other troops killed in the attack, calling their service “outstanding” and “brave.” Posthumously, Staff Sergeant Taub was awarded the Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Air Force Commendation Medal and Air Force Combat Action Medal. ###
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joseph Crowley (NY-14), Vice Chair Linda Sánchez (CA-38), and ten fellow co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces announced the introduction of H.R. 5137, the Buy America 2.0 Act, to require that all federally-funded infrastructure projects use materials made here in America. The legislation is supported by numerous labor organizations and coalitions including: the Alliance for American Manufacturing, United Steelworkers, BlueGreen Alliance, International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers, AFL-CIO, and Transportation Trades Department, AFL-CIO. “We face an infrastructure crisis of historic proportions. Although it’s reassuring to see bipartisan agreement about the need to address this pressing challenge, a truly American infrastructure proposal must boost American workers,” said Congressman Boyle, the bill’s lead sponsor. “I know this firsthand. Hundreds of steelworkers in my district face layoffs due to low demand from the transportation and infrastructure sector. I am proud to fight for them in Congress, and to fight for legislation to boost demand for quality steel, iron, and other materials made here at home by American workers. Despite all the talk, the President’s infrastructure plan was silent on Buy America. Actions speak louder than words. This common-sense legislation is the only way to make sure that our federal investment in rebuilding our infrastructure is an investment in rebuilding the American Dream, too.” “Any infrastructure plan must benefit both Americans who use our public works and American workers. This bill will encourage the use of American-made materials in critically needed infrastructure projects, and in doing so, grow our workforce at home,” said Chairman Crowley. “I want to congratulate Congressman Boyle and the co-chairs of the Jobs for America Task Force for their leadership and for creating new opportunities for American workers.” “The United States cannot meet the challenges of the 21st century with a 20th century infrastructure,” said Vice Chair Sánchez. “Democrats continue to call for a substantial long-term investment to repair our aging bridges, roads, railways, and ports that will grow our economy and create American jobs. This legislation, led by Congressman Boyle and the co-chairs of the Jobs for America Task Force, is an important step to ensure a reliable infrastructure system for our country.” “America’s working families need a guarantee that their tax dollars will be used to create good jobs here in the United States. By requiring the use of domestic iron and steel across a wide array of infrastructure projects, the Buy America 2.0 Act will put American workers back on the job rebuilding our nation,” said Larry I. Willis, president of the Transportation Trades Department. “As Congress turns its attention toward infrastructure, we see this legislation as an important step forward and applaud Rep. Boyle for his leadership.” The Democratic Caucus Jobs for America Task Forces bring together House Democrats in a collaborative setting to share ideas, engage with the American people, discuss policy initiatives, and hear from experts in order to create a jobs-focused legislative agenda that will boost American families and strengthen our economy. The effort is focused on creating opportunities for job growth, boost hardworking families, and give every worker the opportunity to achieve the American dream by developing legislation focused on investing in key industries, restoring worker benefits, removing barriers to help workers find stable and well-paying jobs, helping our veteran communities transition to the workforce, and identifying jobs of the future. The Buy America 2.0 Act is the first in a series of legislation the Task Forces are rolling out in response to ongoing listening sessions and agenda setting. Boyle, Crowley, and Sánchez are joined on the bill by fellow Democratic co-chairs of the Jobs for America Task Forces Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Jimmy Gomez (CA-34), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Darren Soto (FL-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-AL), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), A. Donald McEachin (VA-04), and Brenda L. Lawrence (MI-14), as well as Pete Visclosky (IN-01), Vice Chairman of the Congressional Steel Caucus. ###
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, members of the Congressional Blue Collar Caucus met with leaders from the domestic auto industry including representatives from General Motors and Toyota to discuss the state of the industry and related business, tax, trade and workforce issues. Specifically, Caucus Members discussed how best the Democratic Caucus can promote an economic agenda that supports American workers in this field given the challenges and opportunities faced by the industry today. After the meeting, Blue Collar Caucus Co-Chairs Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Marc Veasey (TX-33) released the following statement: “The American auto industry is the bedrock of American manufacturing. It employs hundreds of thousands of American workers in good-paying jobs that support middle-class families across the country,” said Congressman Boyle. “But over the last few decades, these workers have been on the frontlines of the effects of unfair trade deals and economic policies that have put the American Dream out of reach for far too many. We in the Blue Collar Caucus are committed to fighting for these workers, and working with industry leaders to enact policies that allow auto workers to reclaim the American Dream. Today, we had the opportunity to learn firsthand from industry leaders what’s working and what’s not; what challenges they face today and what challenges they see on the horizon. As we fight for better wages and better jobs in America, we must hear from stakeholders across all industries, especially those upon which so many hard working American families rely. We thank Toyota and General Motors for joining us today and hope this discussion is just the first of many.” “Manufacturing jobs are the foundation of a stable and equitable economy,” said Congressman Veasey. “The American auto industry is an important driving force for the creation and maintenance of over 7.25 million manufacturing jobs all across the country. This is why during today’s Blue Collar Caucus meeting with General Motors and Toyota, I was pleased to have the opportunity to discuss the importance of these jobs, the industry’s vision for the jobs they will offer in the future, and how to ensure blue collar workers are not left behind as our economy continues to compete on a global scale. General Motors and Toyota play an important role in the North Texas economy, and I look forward to working with them and other important stakeholders towards building a workforce to meet the challenges of the 21st century economy.” Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), Anthony Brown (MD-04), Alma Adams (NC-12) and Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03). ###
02.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle led a letter signed by nineteen other House Democrats to President Trump expressing strong concern that he has not yet nominated a Director for the Office of Violence Against Women (OVW), and urging him to select a candidate for confirmation by the U.S. Senate immediately. After submitting the letter, Boyle released the following statement: “Amidst a long-overdue national conversation about sexual assault and the public’s learning of credible allegations of domestic violence within his own administration, it is extremely concerning that President Trump has yet to nominate Director for the Office of Violence Against Women. This critical agency serves to coordinate a national, unified response to violent atrocities against women. As a growing number of women courageously share their stories, it is more important than ever that the federal government stands ready and able to assist in every way possible. Every day that this vital position remains unfilled, the President is breaking his promise to protect all Americans and failing women across this nation. I urge President Trump to prioritize these issues for once and nominate a Director for this position immediately.” The OVW, as a part of the Department of Justice, develops “the national capacity to reduce violence against women and administer justice for and strengthen services to victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking.” Created in 1995 under the Violence Against Women Act, the office stands as a national, unified, and coordinated response to sexual assault, domestic violence, and stalking. The following Members of Congress joined Boyle on the letter: Nanette Diaz Barragán, David N. Cicilline, Yvette D. Clarke, Stephen F. Lynch, Betty McCollum, James P. McGovern, Gwen S. Moore, Beto O’Rourke, Jamie Raskin, Nydia M. Velázquez, John Yarmuth, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Michael Capuano, Carol Shea-Porter, Steve Cohen, Jim Costa, Adriano Espaillat, and Alcee L. Hastings. ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Committee on the Budget, issued the following statement upon the release of President Donald Trump’s FY2019 Budget: “As a member of the House Budget Committee and Co-Chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, I am extremely disappointed in the President’s recent budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2019. A budget is a statement of values. Yet again, the President is demonstrating his true priorities by putting forth a reckless proposal that betrays middle class Americans. At once, the President’s budget further sinks our nation into nearly $1 trillion annual deficits while making extreme cuts to key programs that protect American workers and vulnerable populations, like SNAP, Social Security, and Medicare. Of course, this only adds insult to injury on the heels of his reckless tax handout to hedge funds and the wealthiest 1%. Americans need a budget that ensures higher wages, better jobs, and a brighter future: a blue print to rebuild the American Dream. Sadly, the President’s budget does the complete opposite; it saddles our children with debt, cuts programs on which American seniors and workers rely, and perpetuates massive tax cuts for the wealthy. I will do everything in my power as a Member of the Budget Committee to oppose this harmful proposal. It is fiscally irresponsible and morally bankrupt.” ###
02.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Marc Veasey (TX-33), co-chairs of the Blue Collar Caucus, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s recently announced infrastructure proposal: “There is bipartisan agreement on the need to rebuild our nation’s crumbling infrastructure and put Americans back to work, and President Trump was elected upon a promise to work with Democrats to do just that,” said Congressman Boyle. “Unfortunately, today’s plan is all smoke and mirrors; another broken promise and missed opportunity for bipartisan problem-solving by the President. The President claims that his plan invests $1.5 trillion. In reality, the proposal includes only $200 billion in federal investment after robbing other critical investments, and leaves toll-paying families and state and local governments – already hurt by the Trump Tax Scam – to pick up the tab. Meanwhile, the proposal lets private investors dictate which projects receive funding, and doesn’t say a word about Buy America purchasing requirements. This is not the ‘big league’ bipartisan infrastructure we were promised.” “It’s no secret that fixing our nation’s crumbling roads, bridges, and railroads remain a priority for both sides of the aisle. Where Democrats and Republicans differ is in our approach to spur job growth and our commitment to ensuring the economic benefits from any plan reach the middle class first,” said Congressman Veasey. “President Trump’s mediocre $200 billion proposal leaves states, cities, and local governments to foot the bill and puts additional pressure on their budgets that are already stretched too thin. We need an infrastructure plan that makes daily life easier for America’s hard working families, not one that makes your family foot the bill with more taxes and tolls.” Democrats have proposed real plans to address our national infrastructure crisis. Last week, House Democrats unveiled ‘A Better Deal to Rebuild America’ which includes $1 trillion dollars in direct federal investment that would generate 16 million new jobs. In addition, the infrastructure plan will invest in American iron and steel to support good-paying jobs, and ensure opportunities for small business owners. Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15). ###
02.07.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act of 2017, introduced by Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13). This bipartisan bill encourages greater cyber security cooperation between the U.S. and Ukraine and requires the U.S. State Department to report back to Congress on it efforts to establish cooperation between the two nations. In response, Congressman Boyle released the following statement: “Today, the House took a strong step forward in the ongoing fight to counter Russia’s intensifying cyber-aggression by passing my legislation. Over the last few years, Russia has been using Ukraine as a field test for cyber attacks that endanger the national security of our great ally Ukraine, its regional neighbors, and the United States. H.R. 1997 sends a strong signal to Russia and all those who threaten the cybersecurity of America and its allies that we are ready and able to protect ourselves against this escalating threat. Tonight, the House made important progress to protect the American people and reaffirm that the U.S. stands strong with its NATO allies in this fight. I implore the Senate to pass this legislation quickly. Time is of the essence, with American and Ukrainian elections each right around the corner.” Ukraine has been repeatedly targeted by cyber attacks as a part of ongoing aggression from neighboring Russia. Congressman Boyle has been an outspoken advocate for robust U.S.-Ukraine relations since elected to Congress. Last year, he was awarded as a “Friend of Ukraine” for his work in Congress on behalf of a sovereign, democratic Ukraine. Congressman Boyle also serves as a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and its Subcommittees on the Middle East and North African, and Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade. Today, Congressman Boyle also sent a letter to Secretary of State Tillerson requesting that the Department work expeditiously to release $5 million in funding promised to Ukraine for cyber assistance. The full letter is available HERE. ###
02.01.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) issued the following statement after entering into a friendly Super Bowl wager with Massachusetts Congressman Joe Kennedy III (MA-04). Boyle is betting that his Philadelphia Eagles will take home the coveted super bowl trophy this weekend over Kennedy’s hometown New England Patriots. The stakes are high – Philly’s iconic cheesesteak vs. New England’s Boston Cream Pie. “Congressman Kennedy and his hometown New England Patriots brief post-season win streak will unfortunately come to an abrupt end this weekend. With the City of Philadelphia behind us, I have no doubt that the Eagles will prevail as the champion this Sunday in Super Bowl LII. I also look forward to enjoying a delicious Boston Cream Pie after my Eagles cream the Patriots", said Congressman Boyle. “In the years since the Eagles last played in a Super Bowl, Apple invented the iPhone, Barack Obama was elected president, there have been six more Fast and Furious sequels, and Tom Brady has been fitted for 3 new rings", said Congressman Kennedy. "Recent reports suggest that the G.O.A.T. has even grown a sixth finger so he will be able to fit his sixth ring on the same hand. Our office has already begun taking Tums to prepare for the heartburn that comes with eating a cheesesteak drenched with cheez whiz.” ###
01.31.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement today after Rep. Bob Brady (PA-O1) announced that he will not seek re-election: “Since coming to Congress I’ve gotten to know Bob well. I value our friendship and working closely together to help the city we both love. Bob is a proud son of Philadelphia. He loves our city and would do anything to help anyone. No one has a bigger heart than Bob.” ###
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s State of the Union Address to Congress. “During tonight’s State of the Union Address, the President laid out a vision of our country that was detached from the reality of his administration. Since taking office just over one year ago, President Trump has offended allies, defended adversaries, pushed reckless policies, divided Americans, and picked useless Twitter fights. Although the President would prefer that we judge this year on the basis of the rehearsed remarks he just delivered, his first year in office has been filled with broken promises, damaging bluster, and willful attacks on our democratic institutions. Tonight, the President spoke of a roaring economy. Yet, the record the President claims as his own is based on smoke and mirrors: he takes credit for the continuation of progress made during the Obama administration while neglecting the true, disproportionate impact of his own economic policies. His tax plan provides 83% of its benefits to the wealthiest 1%, strips working families and the most vulnerable of health insurance coverage, provides loopholes to hedge funds, and incentivizes outsourcing to other countries. It’s a destructive agenda that will wreak havoc on American workers and further exacerbate income inequality on our country – as the President’s friends and donors thrive. Tonight, the President also spoke about his hopes for a bipartisan immigration package that addresses security at the border and provides legal status for millions of Dreamers brought to this country as children. But when presented with that very plan last month, the President, the “great deal maker,” walked away from the negotiating table at the last minute and shut down the government. The President also vowed he’d focus on a comprehensive infrastructure package – as he repeatedly promised as a candidate for office. But over a year in office and he’s yet to propose a plan or reach out a hand to Democrats like me and the Blue Collar Caucus that I co-chair – fighting every day to pass a real infrastructure bill, strengthen the middle class, and create good-paying jobs. If the President were serious about fixing our crumbling roads and bridges, he’d stop playing politics, put Twitter aside, and get to work. Despite his claims to the contrary, the State of the Union has declined under President Trump’s leadership. The President is embroiled in investigation, pushing policies that will decimate the American middle class, and raising serious doubts about the future of American leadership on the world stage. He may believe that the State of the Union is strong, but I remain deeply concerned about President Trump’s disdain for our democracy, reckless partisanship, and dangerous policies.” ###
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – This morning, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) issued the following statement in response to the government shutting down after Congress and President Trump failed to reach an agreement on budget caps and immigration policy: “For the first time in American history, we have a government shutdown under one-party rule. Never before has one party held the House, the Senate, and the White House yet been unable to pass the budget and keep the government open. I am deeply disappointed. The American people sent us here to come together and work on their behalf, not to play politics with funding for programs upon which citizens across the country rely. Most disappointing is the fact that there was a bipartisan deal on the table, but the President, the “Great Negotiator,” and Congressional Republicans moved the goal post and walked away from the negotiating table. This entire process has been shameful and irresponsible. Rather than cater to their base, it’s past time President Trump and Republicans controlling Washington step up in good faith to reach consensus with Democrats for the benefit of the nation. It’s time to govern. To this end, I stand ready and willing to work with anyone – but this requires good faith leadership and negotiation.” ###
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) issued the following statement in response to the President’s decision to campaign in Pennsylvania amidst a looming government shutdown: “In the midst of a looming, Trump-created government shutdown threat, the President is instead wasting precious time and resources at a campaign stop in Pennsylvania for an election that won’t occur for months. The President made plenty of time last year to cut taxes for his Wall Street friends, but when it comes to keeping the government open and protecting Dreamers, President Trump clearly has other priorities. In Pennsylvania, where the President’s approval rating is just 35%, working class voters are sick and tired of his broken promises. The President should be here in Washington cleaning up the crisis that he created.” ###
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON- Congressman Brendan F. Boyle, joined by 170 House colleagues, yesterday sent a letter to President Trump expressing support for keeping the federal government open while pressing for the inclusion of urgent bipartisan priorities in any funding resolution. “Mr. President, it is clear that your budget priorities and ours are in significant conflict. However, there are many bipartisan priorities that we can swiftly deliver for the good of the American people, in addition to keeping government open without interruption,” wrote the legislators. These priorities include: • Preserving the agreement in the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 that required increased spending to be spread evenly between defense spending and non-defense discretionary accounts which have both been harmed by the ongoing sequester; • Delivering urgently needed resources for communities fighting the deadly opioid epidemic; • Rescuing our heroic veterans who are facing a dire shortfall at the VA; • Protecting Dreamers, whom you have publicly supported, by passing the Dream Act; • Supporting access to health care by providing critical funding for CHIP and CHCs; • Preserving Americans’ endangered pensions by enacting a responsible reform plan; • Providing additional disaster recovery funding for Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Texas, Florida, and states impacted by wildfires. “If we can’t agree,” wrote the members, “your party has the majority in the House and Senate to pass your own funding resolution. But that will be a bill we cannot support.” ###
01.17.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) ) issued the following statement after entering into a friendly playoff wager with Minnesota Congressman Jason Lewis (MN-02). Congressman Boyle is betting that his Philadelphia Eagles will clinch another playoff-game victory this Sunday in the NFC Championship game against Rep. Lewis’s hometown Minnesota Vikings. The stakes are high--- Philly’s iconic Cheesesteak against Minnesota’s Hormel SPAM (in a can). “The Philly cheesesteak and SPAM are not even in the same league. The Eagles and Vikings actually ARE in the same league, and the results will not be good for Minnesota. I have no doubt that my hometown Philadelphia Eagles will emerge victorious this Sunday in the NFC Championship Game in Philadelphia. I look forward to the Eagles playing in Super Bowl 52. I also look forward to Congressman Lewis’s fresh can of Hormel SPAM on my desk next week”, added Congressman Boyle. “The Vikings are on a roll, and I can’t wait to take on the Eagles and enjoy a delicious Philly Cheesesteak next week! It’s a shame that Brendan won’t get to experience Hormel spam just yet, but I welcome him to join me in rooting for the Vikings as they march on towards the Super Bowl!”, said Congressman Lewis. ###
01.12.2018	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement in response to reports that President Trump attacked immigrants from “shithole countries” including Haiti, El Salvador, and various African nations. “The President’s remarks are disgusting, racist, and deeply offensive to our core values as a nation of immigrants. This nation was built upon the foundational promise that if you’re willing to work hard and play by the rules, we welcome you with open arms regardless of where you come from. One of our greatest strengths is our rich diversity built by decades of immigrants coming here in search of opportunity.” As the proud son of an Irish immigrant, I know that we must honor our nation’s heritage of diversity and inclusion. When Donald Trump attacks any one group of immigrants, he attacks us all. Not only is this another degradation of the office of the President: it is at odds with who we are as Americans.” ###
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) introduced the Standardizing Testing and Accountability Before Large Elections Giving Electors Necessary Information for Unobstructed Selection (STABLE GENIUS) Act to require that all presidential candidates undergo a standardized medical examination and publicly disclose its results before the election. Specifically, Boyle’s legislation would require candidates whom have won the presidential nomination of a political party to file a report with the Federal Election Commission (FEC), as such candidates must do for a host of other campaign-related requirements, certifying that he or she has undergone medical examination by the medical office under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Navy and containing the results of the examination. All FEC filings are publically available online. “The President believes he is a ‘stable genius.’ I do not,” said Congressman Boyle. “President Trump’s reckless, erratic behavior has exposed a critical flaw in our existing election process. Before voting for the highest office in the land, Americans have a right to know whether an individual has the physical and mental fitness to serve as President of the United States. While it is necessary to take the current President’s concerning behavior seriously and I support legislation to address these ongoing concerns, I believe we must also be proactive and do all we can to ensure a situation like this does not arise again.” Boyle concluded, “My legislation provides a much needed safeguard to ensure that future presidential candidates meet the basic standards of a proper, uniform medical examination, and that this information is available to the American public before voting for the Office of the Presidency. While President Trump apparently considers himself a ‘stable genius,’ the American people deserve a thorough, standardized procedure to allow a medical professional to determine this.” Congressman Boyle remains an outspoken defender of our democratic norms and leadership abroad, and holding the Trump Administration accountable to the American people. Boyle cosponsors H.Res.456, objecting to President Trump’s conduct in office, as well as legislation to require the president to disclose his taxes, disclose communications with the Russian government, and refrain from influencing U.S. policy toward Russia until the FBI’s investigation concludes. Additionally, Boyle cosponsors H.J.Res.120, legislation to prevent any president from pardoning himself or any member of his family, administration, or campaign staff. As co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, Congressman Boyle is fighting for economic opportunity for the middle class, and holding the President accountable for his promises to blue collar workers on labor protections, job security, outsourcing, trade, and manufacturing. ###
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement today on the beginning of the second session of the 115th Congress: This week, the 115th Congress convenes in Washington to a host of pressing issues facing the American people. Looking ahead, I remain focused on fighting for the middle class and passing legislation that expands economic opportunity and creates good paying jobs for hardworking men and women in Pennsylvania and across the country. I was disappointed by the partisan agenda in Congress last year as the President and Republican leadership in the House and Senate jammed through massive tax cuts to the mega-wealthy and stripped millions of their health insurance while raising premiums for others. Meanwhile, we failed to address wage stagnation, our student debt crisis, voting rights, or our immigration policy needs. This new session is an opportunity to work across the aisle to restore the fundamental promise of our nation and come together to rebuild the American Dream. To this end, I remain committed and stand ready to work with anyone. We should start by addressing our national infrastructure crisis. On the campaign trail, the President stated his desire to make our crumbling airports, roads, bridges and rail systems the envy of the world again and put Americans back to work in the process. As Co-Chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, I share the President’s desire for a robust, comprehensive infrastructure plan and I remain committed to ensuring his proposals meet the aims of his promises. As a Member of the House Budget Committee and Foreign Affairs Committee, I remain focused on advocating for investments in health, education and the environment, and furthering American leadership in the global community. But above all, my priority remains serving my constituents. ###
01.08.2018	WASHINGTON, DC – In response to an article published this weekend in the Philadelphia Inquirer detailing the unconscionable delays faced by millions of Americans awaiting hearings with the Social Security Administration (SSA) to determine their eligibility to receive Supplemental Security Income (SSI), today Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) led a letter joined by Members of Congress throughout the region demanding answers and requesting a briefing with SSA leadership. SSI is a federal income supplement program designed to assist elderly, blind, and disabled individuals who have little or no income, but a preliminary judicial determination of eligibility by the SAA is first required. In Philadelphia alone, over 100,000 individuals receive SSI. According to the Inquirer, over one million individuals are at risk of injury, disability, and death due to a growing backlog of cases waiting on benefit eligibility determination – with some individuals waiting over two years. In the City of Philadelphia alone, according to the Inquirer, more than 10,000 people are caught in the backlog, with similar numbers in South Jersey and the Philadelphia suburbs. The national average for obtaining a hearing from SSA is 591 days from the date of request. In Philadelphia, the average is 26 months, or roughly 780 days. According to the SSA’s own figures, almost 9,000 individuals died last year alone awaiting a SSA benefits determination. Boyle released the following statement after submitting the letter: “It is an outrage that millions of Americans – and thousands in the City of Philadelphia alone where this problem is at its worst nationwide – are suffering and at risk of injury, disability, and death as they await hearings with the Social Security Administration to determine their eligibility for Supplemental Security Income. It is completely unacceptable for any American to wait years for a basic determination about critical, oftentimes life-sustaining benefits. This crisis of bureaucratic inefficiency cannot and will not be tolerated. Today, I organized a letter to the Acting Commissioner of the SSA, joined by Members of Congress throughout our region, to demand answers and request a briefing to finally address the failures that have led to these delays. Americans rely on this program to afford basic necessities in the face of enormous personal difficulty. It is shameful that their request is not handled with the seriousness and basic competency it merits. I am committed to working with my congressional colleagues and the SSA to ensure that this systemic problem is corrected as soon as possible.” In addition to Boyle, the letter is signed by Reps. Robert A. Brady (PA-01), Dwight Evans (PA-02), Donald Norcross (NJ-01). The full letter is available HERE.
01.04.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle released the following statement upon the Trump Administration’s release of its proposal to permit oil and gas drilling in all U.S. continental shelf waters, including protected areas of the Arctic and the Atlantic: “I am appalled that the Trump Administration wants to lift protections and drill off the Atlantic coast, jeopardizing our beaches, wildlife, and coastal economies. Any spill would be absolutely devastating, and the sheer exploration is harmful to our delicate ecosystem. Even our Department of Defense opposes this proposal. I cosponsor legislation to prevent this from happening and will continue to fight against this reckless proposal – and all other efforts by the Trump Administration to auction off our natural resources and safe environment to the highest bidder.” ###
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON—Representative Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL), a member of the Committees on Foreign Affairs and Energy and Commerce; and Rep. Ed Royce (R-CA), Chairman of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs today introduced legislation to ensure that the security of the Syrian people will be central to reconstruction and stabilization efforts in Syria. The No Assistance for Assad Act (H.R. 4681) would condition American support for such efforts in Assad-controlled territories on Syrian commitments to human rights; a political transition; and the safe, unfettered and voluntary return of Syrian refugees and internally displaced people. “Assad purposely and systematically destroyed Syrian communities in order to retain his political power, with the help of his Russian and Iranian supporters,” said Rep. Boyle. “As co-chair of the Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria Caucus, I believe we in Congress must do all we can to ensure that the welfare of the Syrian people remains the top priority of our involvement in the region, and condition any engagement with the Assad regime as such. This legislation is a critical safeguard to that end.” “Until Assad respects the rights of his people, until they’re on the path toward a better future for themselves, and until there’s accountability for the regime’s war crimes, the United States shouldn’t spend a dime on reconstruction efforts in areas controlled by the regime,” said Rep. Engel. “Buoyed by his patrons in Moscow and Tehran, the Butcher in Damascus broke Syria. Now he and his regime have to pay the price. We should not support any scenario that leaves him in power to continue his violence and oppression against the Syrian people.” “The genocide of the Syrian people by Bashar al Assad and his Russian and Iranian backers may be the worst humanitarian crisis of our generation. We cannot and must not allocate any resources to the brutal Assad regime in reconstructing what he has destroyed. As co-chair of the Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria Caucus, our goal will continue to be in support of the people of Syria who simply seek to live free and in peace. Today, we introduce this legislation to ensure Assad will pay the price for his oppression and violence,” said Rep. Kinzinger. “I want to thank Reps. Kinzinger and Boyle for their leadership on this common-sense legislation to ensure that U.S. aid does not strengthen the Assad regime and its Iranian-backed militias. For nearly seven years now, the Syrian people have been subject to widespread atrocities, including chemical attacks. This bill represents the latest in a series of measures Ranking Member Engel and I have worked to pass in the Foreign Affairs Committee to hold Assad and his enablers accountable,” said Rep. Royce. The legislation would place conditions on American assistance for early recovery, stabilization and reconstruction in Syrian territories controlled by the Assad regime. Such assistance would only be available on the condition that the regime: • Ceases indiscriminate use of weapons and any attacks against civilians and civilian facilities; • Releases all political prisoners and provides full access to Syrian prisons for investigations by appropriate international human rights organizations; • Removes senior officials of the Government of Syria who are complicit in human rights abuses; • Moves to organize free and fair elections for a new government to establish an independent judiciary; • Respects and compiles with internationally recognized human rights; • Fulfills its commitments under the chemical weapons convention; • Halts the development and deployment of ballistic and cruise missiles; • Removes human rights abusers from positions of authority within the military, intelligence, and security services; • Minimizes the Government of Syria’s reliance on Iran and Iranian proxy forces to act on behalf or in support of Syria; and • Commences a process to organize the safe, unfettered and voluntary return of Syrian refugees and internally displaced persons to their homes. The limitation would not apply to projects administered by the local community or humanitarian assistance. The President would also be required must submit annual reports to Congress detailing any projects that utilize the exceptions and laying out a strategy for getting humanitarian assistance to besieged areas. # # #
12.21.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) and Congressman Tom Graves (R-GA-14) introduced H.R. 4707, the Procure PGMS for Israel Act, which would authorize the Department of Defense to add precision-guided munitions into the United States’ War Reserve Stockpile in Israel, enabling it to transfer the high-tech weaponry to Israel in the event of a conflict. “Israelis live each day under the threat of attack by rockets, missiles and armed drones. Israel is our steadfast ally and the only strong democracy in the Middle East,” said Congressman Boyle, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. “We must be exceedingly vigilant about the constant threat it faces from bad actors in the region such as Hezbollah and Hamas. That means improving access to our most advanced weaponry for Israel’s military in the event of a deadly conflict. This bill would ensure that the U.S. stockpile in Israel includes precision-guided munitions that are constantly at the ready and within reach for Israeli forces, significantly improving their security capabilities and safeguarding millions of lives.” “The United States and Israel share an unbreakable bond, which Congress is committed to guarding and strengthening,” said Congressman Graves. “By ensuring Israel has access to precision-guided munitions, we’re improving security for Israelis, discouraging conflict in the region and reaffirming our sacred relationship with Israel.” The United States maintains a War Reserve Stockpile in Israel, authorized by Congress in 1989, which it can draw upon to augment Israeli weaponry in the event of war. Precision-guided munitions (PGMs) are not currently explicitly a part of that stockpile. PGMs are guided projectiles that can reach precise targets with significant accuracy and decreases collateral damage to save civilian lives. During the 2006 war against Hezbollah in Lebanon, the United States granted Israel access to the stockpile. Additionally, in July 2014, during Israeli military operations against Hamas in the Gaza Strip, the Defense Department permitted Israel to draw from the stockpile. The legislation introduced today requires a joint U.S.-Israel study on PGM procurement to outline the quantity and type of precision guided munitions that are necessary for Israel to combat Hezbollah in the event of a sustained armed confrontation between Israel and Hezbollah. The bill explicitly authorizes PGM’s inclusion in the U.S. War Reserve Stockpile in Israel and allows for transfer of PGMs to Israel from the Stockpile in the event of conflict. Finally, the legislation amends the Department of Defense’s acquisition procedures to speed up production of precision-guided munitions. ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Budget Committee and co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, released the following statement after final passage of the Trump-GOP tax scam in Congress: “We may be in the holiday season, but today Republicans controlling Washington ruined the nation’s good cheer by jamming through a cruel, partisan, $1.5 trillion-plus tax overhaul that will decimate the middle class while further advantaging the mega-wealthy and super rich. Rather than work with Democrats to truly lift up the middle class, the American worker, and domestic industries – even close loopholes and reinvest in our infrastructure – this GOP tax scam is filled with their typical wish list of giveaways and actually creates new loopholes that the mega-wealthy and well-connected will exploit for years to come. “Today, President Trump and Republicans in Congress officially showed their true colors by throwing middle class families under the bus out of sheer desperation for a political ‘win’ and the satisfaction of their donor base – the only clear winners under this bill. Today, they’ve officially raised taxes on 86 million middle class families – giving 83 percent of its tax cuts to the wealthiest 1 percent – and to strip critical middle class tax deductions in order to bankroll massive giveaways to big banks and multinational corporations who ship jobs overseas. “This tax plan is a scam, a lesson in budget hawk hypocrisy, and a direct assault on the middle class. And, as if the bill is not harmful enough, it will endanger key funding for fire fighters, law enforcement and schools; cause 13 million more Americans to lose health insurance and spike premiums for the rest; and, in the words of Speaker Ryan himself, its cost will now be used as justification for fulfilling his vision of cutting Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. Merry Christmas to all.” ###
12.20.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Blue Collar Caucus co-chairs Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA) and Marc Veasey (D-TX) released the following statement in response to the final passage of the Republican tax overhaul: “The GOP Tax Scam is a shameful betrayal of the middle class and a conscious punch to the gut of the American worker. Despite overwhelming opposition from the vast majority of the American public, President Trump and Republicans in Congress jammed through a bill that slashes taxes for corporations and their mega-wealthy executives while asking 86 million hardworking middle class families to foot the bill. They cross their fingers that workers might eventually get a trickle of the benefits, but we all know better. “This legislation represents an explicit reversal from Mr. Trump’s many promises to the American worker. Rather than close loopholes, end outsourcing, or invest in infrastructure, the bill actually undermines each priority: it creates new loopholes, further enables outsourcing, and squanders our best chance at financing infrastructure investment while simultaneously ballooning our debt a deficit and fueling cuts to discretionary spending. “As leaders of the Blue Collar Caucus, we have stood ready to work with anyone to lift up the middle class and the American worker, strengthen their hand and help make the American Dream of a higher paycheck and better future for our children attainable again. We introduced the Patriot Employer Act to close loopholes that encourage corporations to send jobs overseas, and provide tax credits to employers that invest in American workers, pay fair wages, and provide employees with robust benefits. This was the kind of tax reform and investment in America that Mr. Trump promised as a candidate. Instead, today he and Congressional Republicans passed legislation that gives a staggering 83% of the tax cuts to the wealthiest 1 percent; raises health insurance premiums; and undermines critical funding for schools, firefighters, and law enforcement agencies in our communities. Actions speak louder than words. We vow to continue to hold the President, his administration, and Congressional Republicans accountable to American workers, and to continue to fight for an agenda in Washington that lifts up working families rather than continuing to stack the deck further against them.” ### The Blue Collar Caucus was formed to foster member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus focuses on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement. Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15), and Anthony Brown (MD-04).
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) joined three of his fellow members of Congress representing constituents on or near the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster and the former Naval Air Station in Horsham in their latest joint bipartisan effort to ensure that the final defense funding bill for fiscal year 2018, currently being negotiated, retains the funding increases they secured in earlier versions of the legislation. These communities and others like them across the country are grappling with water contamination due to the past and persistent use of AFFF firefighting foam (“Aqueous Film-Forming Foam”) by the Department of Defense. Boyle led the House effort with Congressmen Patrick Meehan (PA-7) and Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-8) to increase environmental remediation funding for the U.S. Navy and Air Force, and secured a successful bipartisan vote on his amendment on the floor of the House in July. Senator Casey has spearheaded efforts in the Senate. The members also secured language authorizing and funding a nationwide health study on the human health impacts of the contaminants. The letter reads as follows: The Honorable Thad Cochran The Honorable Kay Granger Chair Chair Subcommittee on Defense Subcommittee on Defense Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations S-128, The Capitol H-305, The Capitol U.S. Senate U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Richard Durbin The Honorable Pete Visclosky Ranking Member Ranking Member Subcommittee on Defense Subcommittee on Defense Committee on Appropriations Committee on Appropriations S-128, The Capitol H-305, The Capitol U.S. Senate U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20510 Dear Chairmen Cochran and Granger and Ranking Members Durbin and Visclosky: We write to you on behalf of our constituents to request your support for various provisions in the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Defense appropriations bills, which affect communities that are dealing with contaminated drinking water as a result of the Department of Defense’s use of firefighting foam (Aqueous Film-Forming Foam, or AFFF). Since the 1970s, the Department of Defense (DoD) has used AFFF containing perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) such as perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS). These compounds have been found by a growing volume of peer-reviewed studies to be associated with serious human health risks. In May 2016, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a drinking water health advisory for PFOS and PFOA, and it is currently considering the issuance of a more strict regulation under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Both the EPA and DoD have detected elevated levels of PFOS and PFOA in drinking water at or near almost 400 defense installations. The EPA has also found these chemicals in drinking water at non-DoD public water systems across the United States. This issue directly affects our constituents on and near the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster and the former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in Horsham. For years, our constituents have been living with too many questions and not enough answers about the use of AFFF and its impact on their local water quality and health. We appreciate your attention to this matter, and seek your continued support of the following throughout the FY18 appropriations conference process: • We respectfully request that you fully fund the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) for the purpose of conducting a health study on the implications of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) contamination, including PFCs, as denoted in Section 316 of the FY18 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), at the full authorized level of $7,000,000. • Furthermore, we ask that you support an increase of $42,234,000 to the Navy Environmental Restoration account and an increase of $30,000,000 to the Air Force Environmental Restoration account for PFOS/PFOA remediation, as provided by Section 4301 of the FY18 NDAA. Water contamination as a result of the military’s decades-long use of AFFF is a nationwide problem that the Department of Defense must confront head on. As representatives of some of the first and worst communities dealing with this problem today, we ask for your support of our bipartisan requests for any appropriations agreement. Sincerely, Robert P. Casey, Jr. Patrick Meehan United States Senator Member of Congress Brendan F. Boyle Brian Fitzpatrick Member of Congress Member of Congress ###
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House Foreign Affairs Committee passed the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act, legislation introduced by Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Brian K. Fitzpatrick (PA-8). The bill, H.R. 1997, would encourage cooperation between the United States and Ukraine on matters of cybersecurity and require State Department reporting to Congress on best practices to protect against future cyber attacks. The legislation may now go to the House floor for a vote on final passage. “I am proud to advance this important bipartisan legislation with Congressman Fitzpatrick and our HFAC colleagues,” said Congressman Boyle, a member of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “It is past time we recognize the need and opportunity to work more closely with our great friend and ally Ukraine, which is on the frontlines for nation state-directed cyber attacks. Helping Ukraine buttress its cyber defenses will also help the United States in developing new and more effective technologies and strategies in dealing with cyber security on the modern battlefield. Our cooperation towards this goal will send a strong, important signal of Western support for Ukraine at a time when it is literally fighting to protect its democratic identity from Putin.” “Cybersecurity is a complex and serious national and economic security issue for any nation. For years, Ukraine has been under siege from nation-state cyber attacks that have sought to weaken its government and undermine hopes for an open and democratic society. The United States must play an important role in this fight. By not adequately responding and adapting to these cyber-threats in Eastern Europe, our nation is both letting down an ally as well as failing to take proactive steps to protect itself,” said Fitzpatrick, also a member of the Congressional Ukrainian Caucus. “Standing strong with our time-tested allies in freedom's cause is liberty's best defense. I’m proud to work with my colleague, Mr. Boyle, in encouraging cooperation between the U.S. and Ukraine on this front, and look forward to continuing to work with members of the Foreign Affairs Committee to keep our focus on this 21st century battle.” Ukraine has been repeatedly targeted by cyber-attacks as a part of ongoing aggression from neighboring Russia. Congressman Boyle has been an outspoken advocate for robust U.S. - Ukraine relations and was earlier this year awarded as a “Friend of Ukraine” for his work in Congress on behalf of a sovereign, Democratic Ukraine. ###
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle sent a letter to Greg Shaheen, acting director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS), demanding action to close a pay-to-play loophole that compromises critical protections for animals under the Endangered Species Act. Congress enacted the Endangered Species Act in 1973 to protect species through strict regulation and enforcement, including a ban on exporting endangered creatures. The law allows for a narrow exception to this prohibition in the event the transfers would “enhance the propagation or survival of the affected species.” However, the FWS has long allowed far too many applicants seeking these permits to violate the ESA so long as they make a monetary contribution to entities, often unvetted and foreign, that merely purport to have a conservation mission that constitutes a benefit to the species. “Every permit exemption granted by taking advantage of this loophole has the potential to push endangered species closer to extinction,” said Congressman Boyle. “Commercial trafficking of endangered species using this loophole is absolutely anathema to the spirit of the ESA and deeply undermines conservation efforts across the globe. I will continue to object and call attention to this practice until the Fish and Wildlife Service brings it to an end.” Congressman Boyle first contacted FWS to express his concerns about the loophole in June of 2016 in a letter requesting a commitment from FWS to end the practice, as well as the full details of which companies and countries have profited from the pay-to-play exemptions. His office received no formal response and the practice has not been ended. The full text of his most recent letter is below. December 12, 2017 Greg Sheehan U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service 1849 C. Street, NW, ROOM 3331 Washington, DC 20240 Dear Acting Director Sheehan, I am writing to follow up on my letter to your agency dated June 27, 2016, as well as to express my concerns with what appears to be another example of “pay-to-play” taking place with regard to the enhancement permits issued by the Fish & Wildlife Service (FWS). I am appreciative of the good work the agency does to preserve species and interpret the Endangered Species Act (ESA) in a meaningful way. However, I remain concerned that FWS is failing to achieve many of the aims and ideals of the ESA by maintaining the pay-to-play loophole in its issuance of enhancement permits. My original letter requested that FWS end the practice of pay-to-play, provide a list of countries and entities involved in this practice, and maintain current records regarding the issuance of enhancement permits. More than one year has passed since this initial letter, and FWS has not fulfilled either of the two first requests. As for the last request, it is my understanding that no systematic database for such permitting exists, although I hope your agency has implemented such a database after follow-up inquiries from my staff. It is also clear that, despite my letter over one year ago, this loophole is still in effect. For example, it has come to my attention that Feld Entertainment, Inc., the parent company of the Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus, recently applied for a FWS permit to export members of three species that are protected by the ESA (one leopard, six lions and eight tigers) from the U.S. to Europe, apparently for circus exhibitions. As you know, Congress intended the Endangered Species Act to protect species through strict prohibitions, including a ban on exports. The law allows for a narrow exception to this prohibition of permits in the event the transfers would “enhance the propagation or survival of the affected species.” However, when Congress enacted this exception, it put in place myriad safeguards, underscoring that it intended to “limit substantially the number of exemptions.” The Supreme Court has likewise recognized that permits are only to be granted “in extremely narrow circumstances.” The law is clear that permits for these exempted activities should only be granted if the otherwise prohibited activity would itself be of benefit to the species. It deeply concerns me that FWS is continuing its practice of allowing applicants seeking these permits to violate the ESA so long as they make a monetary contribution to entities, often unvetted and foreign, that simply purport to have a conservation mission that constitutes a benefit to the species. FWS’s apparent reasoning is that a donation to charity justifies an action that harms a species. Yet, such a justification has not been documented or supported by FWS. Moreover, FWS has previously acknowledged that it does not vet these foreign entities receiving the funds, and thatit has issued thousands of these permits under this arrangement in recent years. To be clear, Congress never authorized an interpretation of this sort. I remain concerned that this loophole created by FWS through executive fiat undermines the agency’s progress to date in protecting animals entitled to protection under the ESA, as well as ongoing and future efforts. Feld Entertainment’s most recent application for a permit of this kind – and FWS’s subsequent granting of this permit – illustrates the issues inherent in FWS’s current practice. In this application, Ringling primarily sought to justify the permit based upon funding that it previously donated, much of it years ago. The application also stated that Ringling has “$20,000.00 earmarked in the 2017 budget” for an Indian-based conservation organization. It is my understanding that there was no grant proposal, agreement, or plan included for the earmarked funds. The Director of the recipient organization merely stated that it would be used for equipment – including, among other things, t-shirts with Feld’s logo. Regardless, even if this donation is made, it has nothing to do with exhibiting tigers, lions, and leopards in a European circus.The ESA, the clarifying statements of its original drafters, and subsequent Supreme Court decisions all make clear that exemption permits are to be granted for the sole purpose of directly aiding in the conservation of the implicated species – for example, transporting a particular animal to another country in order to perform life-saving medical work for that animal or species. The loose interpretation of direct conservation efforts made by FWS in the case of Feld’s application illustrates an ongoing pattern and cause for concern. In short, FWS’s practice of issuing permits to export endangered animals to circuses and roadside zoos in exchange for nominal cash donations is an incorrect interpretation of the ESA’s allowance for enhancement permits, and directly contradicts the spirit and intent of the ESA. With that said, I renew my request for the agency to, in writing, provide me a list of countries and entities involved in its enhancement permit program, as well as a commitment to ending pay-to-play exemptions. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Please direct your response to Alana Byrd of my Washington, DC office. Sincerely, Brendan F. Boyle ###
12.07.2017	PHILADELPHIA, PA – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement in response to Pennsylvania State Auditor General Eugene DePasquale’s findings regarding the Philadelphia Parking Authority (PPA): “It is painfully clear that sweeping and immediate changes must begin at the PPA and they must start at the top with Chairman Joseph Ashdale’s resignation or removal,” said Congressman Boyle. “These latest findings by Auditor General DePasquale leave no doubt that, under Chairman Ashdale’s leadership, the Philadelphia Parking Authority allowed a sexual harasser to continue as its executive director. This broken culture of demeaning and degrading women is beyond comprehension for any reasonable person. There must be consequences for his disgraceful leadership.” “The handling of sexual harassment complaints against the former executive director boggles the mind on so many levels,” said Auditor General DePasquale. “I would have fired him on the spot once the investigation confirmed the accusations and he admitted it." # # #
12.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 38, the Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act, which would force each state to recognize the concealed carry permit standards of every other state, even those that have dramatically weaker standards or none at all. The bill passed the House by a vote of 231-198: “This bill is a nightmare. Quite simply, it strips local communities of their right to enforce their own gun safety laws, and leaves our public vulnerable to violence by inviting dangerous individuals to carry hidden, loaded weapons beyond the reach of local law enforcement. It is an absolute disgrace that just weeks after two of the worst mass shootings in our history and one week shy of the solemn five year anniversary of the Newtown school shooting, the only vote on gun legislation that Republican leaders will allow is a giant Christmas gift to the NRA that would weaken oversight, nullify states’ rights, and destroy hard-fought progress on preventing gun deaths. As part of the House Gun Violence Prevention Task Force, a husband, and a father, I am deeply disturbed by this bill and remain fully committed to pursuing sensible, lifesaving gun violence prevention legislation.” ###
12.06.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) today released the following statement after voting to table Congressman Al Green’s resolution calling for the impeachment of President Trump: “President Donald Trump’s actions have raised very serious questions about his fitness to serve in office which I continue to speak out against. However, at this time, I believe we must focus on protecting the integrity of Special Counsel Robert Muller’s ongoing, independent federal investigation and then evaluate its results before beginning impeachment proceedings.” ###
12.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement decrying House Republicans’ proposed overhaul of the Higher Education Act, which would impose deep cuts to student loan repayment programs: “This reckless higher education proposal is entirely at odds with the needs of students, graduates, and aspiring scholars in this country. At the very time that student debt is at an all-time high at a whopping $1.4 trillion, this proposal would pull the rug out from under our public servants and middle-class families. We should be expanding loan forgiveness programs, reducing interest rates for student loans, and improving access to education for low-income and first generation college students. Instead, this plan would put higher education further out of reach – at a time, no less, when a college education is often required to get a good-paying job and support a family. Between their tax bill and now this education proposal, Republicans are waging an all-out assault on the middle class. “As co-chair of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Caucus, I am particularly appalled by Republicans’ continued attacks on the PSLF program and now, with this bill, their proposal to end it. I have seen firsthand just how important the PSLF program is to hardworking teachers, nurses, firefighters, police, and other public servants in our country who tirelessly serve our communities despite lower salaries and the burdens of student debt. I will fight this proposal at every turn.” Education affordability and accessibility are among Congressman Boyle’s top priorities in Congress, fighting to address our nation’s current student debt crisis through loan repayment assistance, refinancing, easing interest rates, and building a stable foundation of college accessibility and affordability. In 2017, Boyle founded the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Caucus which he co-chairs. He is fighting to protect the PSLF program, which helps enable Americans to pursue public service careers despite the strain of their student loan debt. The PSLF Caucus is supported by a coalition of more than fifty organizations, including the Fraternal Order of Police and National Education Association. As a consistent champion of working families, Boyle is also the founder and co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus which advocates for economic justice and middle class workers. ###
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Last night, Rep. Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) and Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL-16), co-chairs of the Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria Caucus and members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, introduced a resolution condemning the intentional military targeting of hospitals and medical personnel in Syria, as recently profiled on CBS’s 60 Minutes. The legislation, H.Res.632, condemns the attacks, calls on all parties to end the strikes, and calls on Secretary of State Rex Tillerson to work with the international community to conduct investigations into these violations of international humanitarian law. According to Physicians for Human Rights, 90% of these attacks have been carried out by the Assad regime and the Russian military. “During the six years of the Syrian civil war, there have been more than 400 attacks on hospitals and more than 800 medical personnel have been killed,” said Congressman Boyle. “This disturbing and blatant violation of international law must end. The United States must send a clear message to Assad and Putin that the international community is watching, and we will hold them accountable for the intentional targeting of vulnerable civilians and those helping the sick and wounded. Representative Kinzinger and I will continue to stand up for the core tenants of humanitarian law and civilian protections worldwide.” “The brutality of the Assad regime knows no bounds as it continues to launch airstrikes, barrel bombs, and chemical weapons on innocent men, women, and children. Furthermore, Assad has committed the original war crime – attacking hospitals – time and time again,” said Congressman Kinzinger. “We must stand with groups like the Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS), who provide aid to the thousands of wounded Syrians. Dr. Samer Attar is a member of SAMS, and a Chicagoan. He reached out to me back in September 2016 to share with me the severity of the attacks on medical facilities. And sadly, these attacks continue. I’m proud to stand with my colleague Congressman Boyle to wholeheartedly condemn these attacks on hospitals by the Assad regime, and its Russian and Iranian backers, and the countless crimes against humanity in this genocide on the Syrian people.” In July, the Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria Caucus met with the Syria Civil Defense, better known as the “White Helmets,” a group of unarmed volunteers who risk life and limb to carry out daring search-and-rescue missions in the wake of bombings in Syria. The group discussed the intentional targeting of emergency medical and rescue workers such as the White Helmets by Assad and Russia. Over 190 White Helmets volunteers have been killed during the Syrian conflict. Despite the danger, the White Helmets have saved over 99,000 lives. ### Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL) and Rep. Brendan Boyle (D-PA) with two members of the Syrian Civil Defense (“White Helmets”) in September 2017.
11.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, on World Prematurity Day, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) introduced a resolution (H.Res.625) to congressionally designate November as Prematurity Awareness Month. The resolution highlights the importance of reducing the number of infants born too soon. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA) joined Boyle in introducing the identical Senate resolution. “Despite our place as the most advanced country in the world, the United States is seeing a disturbing rise in premature birth rates – more than one in ten babies are born before 37 weeks,” said Congressman Boyle. “Designating November as Prematurity Awareness Month will help us promote a stronger understanding of prematurity and its causes, and give us the opportunity to join families and healthcare professionals in recognizing the importance of this issue.” The resolution is endorsed by March of Dimes, an organization working to end premature births and prevent infant illness and mortality. March of Dimes is one of many organizations and individuals around the globe that observe Prematurity Awareness Month during November to improve public awareness of the causes and consequences of premature birth. Annually, more than 380,000 infants are born early in the United States. Premature birth is the leading cause of newborn death, and babies who survive are more likely to suffer from intellectual and physical disabilities, which can last throughout their lives. In addition to its human, emotional, and financial impact on families, premature birth is extremely costly to the United States. A 2006 report by the Institute of Medicine found the cost associated with premature birth in the United States was $26.2 billion annually, which is borne by both private and public insurers. ###
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Budget Committee, released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1, the House Republicans’ tax overhaul: “The facts are clear: the GOP Tax Plan is a handout to the mega-wealthy that puts further burden on middle class families. The Republican Party sold a bill of goods to hardworking Americans across this country, promising them reform that closes loopholes and boosts the middle class. Yet, today, they sold those people out to give trillions in tax cuts to the mega-rich while closing so-called loopholes that helped students, teachers, and the sick. They claimed they would cut taxes for working families who face stacked odds and piling bills. Instead, they voted to raise taxes for 36 million of those middle-class families, and to strip critical tax deductions from struggling Americans in order to bankroll massive giveaways to big banks and multinational corporations who ship jobs overseas. This tax plan is a miscarriage of democracy, a scam, and a direct assault on the middle class.” ###
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13), Ryan Costello (R-PA-06), John Sarbanes (D-MD-03), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-08) introduced legislation to fix a glitch in a federal loan forgiveness program that can leave teachers, soldiers, social workers, and other public servants with massive loan balances they thought would be forgiven after years of timely payments during public service employment. The PSLF Technical Corrections Act of 2017 would relieve a significant financial burden for those who sought to use the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program (PSLF) program to reduce the burden of their student loan debt – but mistakenly enrolled in repayment plans that caused them to pay more than the PSLF program would have required, and which do not qualify for forgiveness under current law. Congress established the bipartisan loan forgiveness program in 2007 to help teachers, social workers, military personnel, and other public servants pursue sometimes lower-paying careers serving their communities without facing decades of crippling loan payments. The program allows borrowers to erase the balance of their student debt after working for a nonprofit or government employer for 10 years and making 120 qualifying loan payments. Due to complex program requirements, some borrowers believe they are making qualifying payments under the program only to find out that in fact they are not, as recently profiled in the New York Times. “I’m proud to introduce this legislation, and committed to doing all I can to help alleviate the burden of student loan debt for folks who worked hard and thought they were playing by all the rules,” said Congressman Boyle, co-chair of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Caucus, which is fighting to protect and spread awareness about the program. “Public Service Loan Forgiveness is an investment in our communities and a commitment to those who choose these demanding careers in the face of financial insecurity. Rather than let good actors slip through the cracks, we’re fighting to provide relief to all those who fulfill the spirit of the program despite paperwork errors or bureaucratic complications. Public Service Loan Forgiveness is an incentive to our students and an investment in our future, and we must ensure that it benefits as many hardworking public servants as possible.” “This legislation will provide a very helpful change to the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program that will make sure public service professionals, such as first responders and teachers, who are working to make a difference in their communities receive the student loan forgiveness they have worked towards,” said Congressman Costello, co-chair of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Caucus. “If borrowers are making qualifying payments for PSLF standards but mistakenly enrolled in higher repayment plans, they must be allowed to apply those payments towards loan forgiveness under PSLF. Our legislation will ensure this happens.” “This improvement to the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program will ensure that more community health care workers, teachers, public defenders, social workers and other public servants receive the loan forgiveness benefits they have earned,” said Congressman Sarbanes, the author of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program. “I was proud to lead the effort in the House of Representatives to create this program, and with this bill today, we’re making a concerted effort to continue investing in public servants who dedicate their careers to strengthening our communities.” “The Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program (PSLF) incentivizes recent graduates to fill critical public service jobs such as teachers, soldiers, nurses and first-responders. The PSLF Technical Corrections Act rectifies a technical glitch causing these public servants to be burdened with excessive loan payments. This legislation will fulfill the promise made to these public servants, and I’m proud to advance this measure on their behalf,” said Congressman Fitzpatrick. The bill would allow loan forgiveness for public service borrowers who ended up in the wrong repayment plan, but who have not paid less than they would have under the required plan. Under the bill, if a borrower has been making payments that were as much as they would have paid on a qualifying repayment plan while employed in public service, they would receive full credit for those payments toward loan forgiveness. The legislation has been endorsed by the National Education Association and the American Federation of Teachers. Senators Tim Kaine (VA) and Sheldon Whitehouse (RI) introduced the Senate version of the bill concurrently. ###
11.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House of Representatives passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle’s (PA-13) bill that would rename the post office at 207 Glenside Ave. in Wyncote, PA as the “Staff Sergeant Peter Taub Post Office Building.” Sergeant Taub, a fallen hero from Congressman Boyle’s district, made the ultimate sacrifice for his country when a suicide bomber took his life in Afghanistan in December 2015. “Staff Sergeant Peter Taub was a shining example of the best our country has to offer,” said Congressman Boyle. “In his service to our nation, he exemplified unwavering patriotism and heroic bravery. Renaming this post office in his home town is the least we can do to honor him; a small but important symbol of our eternal thanks. I’m proud that today, just shortly after Veterans Day, we’ve passed this legislation to honor Sergeant Taub’s service and sacrifice by making his memory a permanent fixture in his local community.” Sergeant Taub is survived by his wife Christina, their 3 year old daughter Penelope, and another daughter, Petra, born after his death in the summer of 2016. His mother, Arlene Wagner, owns Bub and Pop’s sandwich shop in Washington, D.C., a gathering place well-loved by members of Congressman Boyle’s staff. After his death, President Barack Obama paid tribute to Sergeant Taub and the five other troops killed in the attack, calling their service “outstanding” and “brave.” Posthumously, Staff Sergeant Taub was awarded the Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Air Force Commendation Medal and Air Force Combat Action Medal. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, as part of the House-Senate National Defense Authorization Act conference package, the House of Representatives passed provisions secured by Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) to combat water contamination caused by firefighting chemicals used on military properties nationwide, including Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania. The legislation is now expected to pass the Senate and soon be signed into law. Specifically, Boyle’s provisions authorize higher federal spending to remediate the contamination ($42 million for the Navy and $30 million for the Air Force), and mandate a Department of Defense study and report to Congress on finding safer, effective alternatives to the firefighting foam that caused the contamination. The package also authorizes $7 million in funding for a nationwide study on health effects of PFCs (including PFOA and PFOS), the chemical compounds contained in the firefighting foams, to be conducted by the CDC. Such a study has been a high priority for Boyle and other Members of Congress representing affected communities across the country. This past summer, Boyle also secured $60 million for Navy and Air Force environmental remediation to address the water contamination in the annual Defense Appropriations bill, which allocates federal funds as authorized in the NDAA, and introduced legislation (H.R. 3106) to require an enforceable EPA Safe Drinking Water Act regulation for PFCs, including PFOA and PFOS, rather than the current voluntary guideline. “This is a huge step for our community and for all those across the country who have suffered from the effects of unsafe drinking water because of the use of these firefighting foams,” said Congressman Boyle after the passage of the NDAA House-Senate Conference bill today. “I am proud to be leading this fight along with my colleagues from Pennsylvania and other impacted states, and I will keep fighting to secure every possible resource to safeguard the health of our communities and prevent this from happening again.” “This legislation will provide new funding for environmental cleanup; community support; investigations into the health effects of these polluting chemicals; and a transition to safer, effective alternatives to these firefighting foams,” continued Boyle. “I thank the Armed Services Committee for working with me to secure these gains, and I vow to keep fighting to ensure the federal government treats these contaminants with the seriousness they merit.” Ameliorating water contamination surrounding defense properties has been a top priority for Congressman Boyle throughout his tenure in Congress. In September, the House adopted Congressman Boyle’s amendment to provide $1.9 million additional funding for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Diseases Registry (ATSDR), the agency heading local medical testing and health studies in response to water contamination stemming from the use of AFFF firefighting chemicals. In June, Boyle re-introduced his bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3106, that would require the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to set an enforceable, nationwide primary drinking water standard for PFCs. ###
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement on President Trump’s recent trip to Asia: “Diplomacy can't be done in 140 characters. What should have been an important opportunity to reassure our allies during a time of escalated anxiety, and to discuss the North Korea threat in Asia during the longest trip there by an American President in more than a quarter century instead became another unbecoming, political stunt from President Trump. Again, the president responded to real foreign policy threats with immature name-calling and hyperbolic rhetoric, attacked our intelligence community, and pledged his unwavering support for Vladimir Putin and Rodrigo Duterte, a man accused of leaving thousands dead from a brutal war on drugs. All the while, yet again, President Trump failed to make mention of human rights violations or attacks on American democracy. Unfortunately, the only constant in Mr. Trump’s foreign policy seems to be his disturbing admiration for autocratic rulers and reluctance to stand up for the principles that truly make America great.” ###
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement after voting against Republican legislation that would cut the Prevention and Public Health Fund, sabotage the Affordable Care Act (ACA), and raise Medicare premiums in order to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), Community Health Centers (CHCs), and other expiring public health initiatives: “I’m disheartened and appalled that Republicans would play politics with the healthcare of children and mothers by fabricating this false choice between reauthorizing CHIP or funding crucial public health initiatives and Medicare for seniors. Healthcare should not be a zero-sum game. I refuse to treat these critical funds as though they are bargaining chips, one at the expense of the other. More than 176,000 children across Pennsylvania depend on CHIP to provide free or reduced price comprehensive medical, dental, and behavioral health services – including 12,599 in my congressional district alone. We must fully and cleanly reauthorize CHIP without cuts to other critical programs. I hope bipartisan negations continue so that we can vote on a clean reauthorization bill as soon as possible, rather than play partisan games.” Congressman Boyle voted to reauthorize CHIP for two years in 2015, and signed onto a congressional letter last month urging House leadership to bring a clean reauthorization bill up for a vote as soon as possible. ###
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement in response to the unveiling of the House Republican tax plan: “It’s easy to see why Republicans created this catastrophic plan in secret, with zero public hearings or bipartisan input. It’s a shameful betrayal of middle class families, who would see their own taxes raised in order to pay for trillions in tax cuts for corporations and the wealthiest 1 percent. At a time when we should be fighting to empower working families struggling to find financial security, this plan would gut critical tax breaks for families and homeowners like the state and local tax deduction, which prevents middle class taxpayers from being taxed twice on the same dollar earned. In my district alone, in 2014, 36% of tax returns used the SALT deduction. Meanwhile, the Republican tax plan eliminates the corporate alternative minimum tax and cuts the corporate tax rate without closing loopholes – despite candidate Trump’s assurances that he knew best how to do so. “This plan would be a wrecking ball to the middle class and the overall US economy, crushing wage growth, lowering investments, and slashing revenue by the trillions – while the GOP simultaneously uses the deficit to justify cuts to Medicare and Medicaid. The middle class is already struggling to make ends meet. Americans need real tax reform that will boost the middle class, close corporate loopholes, and keep good jobs here at home – like the Patriot Employer Act, which I helped introduce last month. Instead, the GOP plan would raise taxes for millions of working families for the sake of boosting corporate profits, already at record highs. As a Member of the House Budget Committee and co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, I will continue to fight against this reprehensible, irresponsible proposal, and fight for real solutions for working families and American workers.” ###
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), along with his fellow co-chairs of the Democratic Caucus’ Jobs with Dignity Task Force, met with labor, business, and academic leaders to discuss strategies to raise wages, strengthen benefits, and build real financial and retirement stability for the middle class. Congressman Boyle was joined by Paul Downs, Founder and President of Paul Downs Custom Conference Tables, a custom furniture workshop located in Bridgeport, PA – in Congressman Boyle’s congressional district – that employs 20 skilled craftsmen and takes pride in its renowned American-made products. Mr. Downs, who has published a book about owning a small business and written about profit sharing for the New York Times, was invited to the panel as an expert witness to share his perspective on effective, community-minded business practices. “I’m so proud to have Mr. Downs with us in the U.S. Capitol today,” said Congressman Boyle. “As a local business leader who has put successful, worker-oriented industry strategies into practice in our own community, Paul is exactly the kind of voice we need to have at the table as Democrats work to build a legislative agenda that will strengthen the middle class and create a better deal for working Americans.” “As Republicans ram their billionaire tax cut agenda through Congress without a single hearing, my colleagues and I are focused on offering bold solutions that will raise wages, increase profit-sharing, ensure retirement security, and empower the middle class in the long term. Working families can’t afford higher taxes or handouts to billionaires – they need better wages, better jobs, and real financial confidence.” Specifically, this forum, titled “Raising Wages and Providing Benefits to Support a Middle Class Family,” delved into some of the unique partnerships created between employees and employers to encourage profit-sharing, increased take-home pay, and better benefits for employees. The forum was organized to gather the experiences and insights of expert witnesses to help guide the task force as it looks to shape federal policy in this area. The four co-chairs of the Jobs with Dignity task force are Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Congressman Don Beyer (VA-8), Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Congressman Raul Ruiz (CA-36). They were joined by Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (NY-14) and Vice-Chair Linda Sanchez (CA-38). They were joined by invited panelists Paul Downs, Founder and President of Paul Downs Custom Conference Tables; Nicole Collier, Director of Government Relations & Public Affairs, Nestlé; Josh Nassar, Legislative Director, United Auto Workers; and Joseph A. McCartin, Professor of History and Director of the Kalmanovitz Initiative for Labor and the Working Poor at Georgetown University. Congressman Boyle also serves as co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, formed in the wake of the 2016 election to hold President Trump accountable for his promises to working people by fostering member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. ###
10.31.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) introduced legislation to facilitate better access to funding for victims of sexual assault. The Removing Barriers to Sexual Assault Victims’ Compensation Act is a revenue-neutral bill that would require states to remove time limits for establishing eligibility to receive compensation owed under existing law, which exist in 47 states and the District of Columbia. Pennsylvania has a two year time limit under current law. “For many victims of sexual assault, stepping out of the shadows and reporting the crime is traumatic enough,” said Congressman Boyle. “On top of this, the evidence kits for many victims lay untested on the shelves of police labs for years on end before any justice is ever achieved. Meanwhile, victims are forced to lose work hours in order to attend doctor’s visits and tend to legal matters; medical bills rack up and lost wages can turn into lost jobs. “Fortunately, a reserve of funds exists for states to compensate sexual assault victims for their lost wages, medical bills, and other expenses related to their assault. This funding is crucial for victims who otherwise might not be able to make ends meet through no fault of their own. However, there are unnecessary roadblocks and time limitations placed upon these victims seeking the compensation they are owed. We need to make it easier for these victims to achieve justice, regain their footing and return to society – not harder. As we conclude Domestic Violence Awareness Month, I am fighting make sure that victims of sexual assault are not burdened even further by the system that is supposed to help them cope with the trauma of these crimes.” Congressman Boyle has been a dedicated advocate for victims of sexual assault and domestic violence throughout his tenure in state and federal office. As a Pennsylvania State Representative, he introduced and passed the SAFER PA Act, which requires timely testing of DNA evidence kits and reporting of backlogged and untested evidence. In Congress, he is a leader in the fight to fully fund the DOJ’s Sexual Assault Kit Initiative, which provides grant funding to improve state and local capacity for kit testing and enable better investigation and prosecution of sexual crimes. ###
10.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – A bipartisan, bicameral group of Pennsylvania lawmakers including Senator Bob Casey (D-PA), Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08), and Rep. Pat Meehan (PA-07) are urging House and Senate negotiators to include crucial water contamination language in the final Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA). In a letter addressed to the chairs and ranking members of the House and Senate Committees on Armed Services, the group pushed for support for their House and Senate-passed amendments to address the ongoing issue of water contamination by perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) like PFOA and PFOS surrounding the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster, the former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in Horsham, as well as the Horsham Air Guard Station. A House and Senate Conference Committee has been convened to produce one conference bill for the two chambers. The legislators are fighting to ensure their respective “wins” are included in the final conference bill, which will likely be enacted into law by the end of 2017. “Water contamination as a result of the military’s decades-long use of AFFF is a nationwide problem that the Department of Defense must confront,” reads the letter in part. “A nationwide health study, increased funding for cleanup and community engagement, and accelerated progress towards identifying safer alternative firefighting foams are each vital steps in the right direction of addressing this serious, growing health threat. As representatives of some of the first communities dealing with this problem today, we ask for your support of our bipartisan, bicameral request for the FY18 NDAA conference bill.” The complete text of the letter is below. The Honorable John McCain The Honorable Jack Reed Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Armed Services Committee on Armed Services United States Senate United States Senate Washington, DC 20510 Washington, DC 20510 The Honorable Mac Thornberry The Honorable Adam Smith Chairman Ranking Member Committee on Armed Services Committee on Armed Services United State House of Representatives United States House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen and Ranking Members: As you negotiate the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), we write to ask for your support of various provisions affecting communities in Pennsylvania that are dealing with contaminated drinking water as a result of the use of the firefighting foam Aqueous Film-Forming Foam (AFFF) at military installations nearby. Because of the broad scope of AFFF, which contains perfluorinated chemicals (PFCs) like PFOA and PFOS and is used by entities including the U.S military at more than 600 sites across the country, contaminated drinking water now poses a nationwide public health threat. A growing volume of peer-reviewed studies indicate serious human health risks associated with PFCs like PFOA and PFOS, including links to certain types of cancers and impaired immune system performance. We appreciate you working with us during each chamber’s NDAA process to make substantial progress addressing these issues, and ask for your continued support during the conference process. For several years, Pennsylvanians living in communities near the Horsham Air Guard Station, former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove, and former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster have been living with too many questions and not enough answers about the use of AFFF and its impact on their local water quality. Our constituents deserve to understand what impact this contamination has had on their health and the health of their children. We believe that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) should conduct a comprehensive, nationwide study of the health effects of these contaminants, with support from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Department of Defense (DoD). We were pleased to see both the House and Senate NDAA adopt language to this effect, as well as the Senate’s action to authorize the more immediate interim step of biomonitoring at eight communities affected by the contamination. The House NDAA also includes language (Section 727) that would authorize DoD to enter into intergovernmental agreements to provide health screenings for conditions relating to PFOS and PFOA exposure in communities near formerly used defense sites that are the sources of contamination. We ask that the committee support authorization of a health study, health screenings and biomonitoring in the final conference agreement. Second, the Department of Defense has identified 393 active and former sites around the Nation where there was a known or suspected release of PFOS and/or PFOA. Through December 2016, the Department of Defense had already spent approximately $202 million on PFOS and PFOA sampling, analysis, and cleanup; $199 million of that was originally programmed for cleanup activities at other sites. As a result, both the House and Senate increased the authorization for funding of the relevant accounts for environmental restoration and cleanup in recognition of the significant anticipated cost associated with remediation and response as the DOD’s assessment of potential exposure advances. We ask that you support the most substantial increases possible to the following accounts: Senate Action: Environmental Restoration – Navy: Section 14001 authorizes a $41.6 million increase. Environmental Restoration – Air Force: Section 14009 authorizes a $20 million increase. Operations and Maintenance – Air Guard: Section 14002 authorizes a $5 million increase. Operations and Maintenance – Navy Reserve: Section 14002 authorizes a $20 million increase. House Action: Environmental Restoration – Navy: Authorization of a $30 million program increase for PFOS / PFOA remediation. Environmental Restoration – Air Force: Authorization of a $30 million program increase for PFOS / PFOA remediation. The House Defense Appropriations Act for FY2018 (H.R. 3219) also supported these levels, with bipartisan floor vote of 256-169. Finally, we firmly believe that the Department of Defense should accelerate its efforts to identify a safe, effective alternative to AFFF that meets the military’s performance requirements without the harmful PFOA and PFOS chemicals. We ask that you support Section 1060 of the House-passed NDAA, which requires a report on research and development progress as well as an assessment of how the establishment of a maximum contaminant level nationwide regulation under the Safe Water Drinking Act, rather than the current health advisory level, would impact DOD’s budget priorities, mitigation and cleanup activities, and research and development related to PFOA and PFOS. Water contamination as a result of the military’s decades-long use of AFFF is a nationwide problem that the Department of Defense must confront. A nationwide health study, increased funding for cleanup and community engagement, and accelerated progress towards identifying safer alternative firefighting foams are each vital steps in the right direction of addressing this serious, growing health threat. As representatives of some of the first communities dealing with this problem today, we ask for your support of our bipartisan, bicameral request for the FY18 NDAA conference bill. Sincerely, Robert P. Casey, Jr., United States Senator Brendan F. Boyle, Member of Congress Patrick Meehan, Member of Congress Brian K. Fitzpatrick, Member of Congress ###
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement following the passage of Republicans’ FY 2018 Budget Resolution through the House of Representatives by a vote of 216-212 without a single Democratic vote. The measure, H. Con. Res. 71, now allows a rare, powerful procedural tool allowing the Senate to move forward on the GOP tax plan with a simple majority partisan vote – rather than a 60-member threshold requiring Democratic support. The GOP tax plan would give 80 percent of its tax benefits to the wealthiest 1 percent while making middle class families pay higher taxes. “Today, my Republican colleagues voted to adopt a disgraceful budget that will damage our country’s economy, kill middle-class jobs, and hurt working families. It is wrong to raise taxes on millions of middle class Americans in order to pay for a tax cut for billionaires. This budget will leave the most vulnerable among us behind by slashing funding for vital community programs, while steamrolling job growth by killing crucial federal investments and funding for research and education. This is a missed opportunity to lift up the struggling middle class and a reprehensible betrayal of American values. Even worse, Republicans charged ahead on this budget vote solely to jam though their partisan, draconian tax plan to put trillions in the pockets of the mega-wealthy – paid for by raising taxes on 50 million middle-class Americans, including 967,000 households in Pennsylvania. This is not a tax plan; it is stacking the deck further against middle class families who most need relief in an economy that is already rigged against them. I’ll continue fighting against this shameful, economic plan, and working to put forward real policy solutions that will actually grow our economy and bring hardworking families the support they need.” Congressman Boyle is Co-Chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, formed in the wake of the 2016 election to hold President Trump accountable for his promises to working people by fostering member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus focuses on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to reconnect the party to blue collar workers, and generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement. ###
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the House passed Congressman Brendan F. Boyle’s (PA-13) amendment to sanction Russia for its support of the terrorist organization Hezbollah. H.R. 3329, the Hezbollah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2017, with Boyle’s amendment, passed the House and now awaits consideration by the U.S. Senate. “This is a critical first step in censuring the disturbing relationship between Russia and Hezbollah, a terrorist group that has repeatedly violated international law,” said Congressman Boyle, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, in a statement after the passage of the bill. “It is high time we take a stand against international support for Hezbollah and commit to ensuring the security of Americans abroad and defending our international allies like Israel.” “In the course of their collaboration during the Syrian conflict, Russia has provided Hezbollah with funding, training, air support, and advanced weaponry. This expansion of Hezbollah’s capacity for destruction poses an imminent threat to peace and democracy in the region. This amendment will compel Russia to cease its support for Hezbollah in Syria or anywhere else, or else face sanctions by the United States.” H.R. 3329 targets foreign governments that knowingly provide significant financial support to Hezbollah and foreign individuals and companies that aid its fundraising or recruitment activities. In the decade since the Second Lebanon War, Hezbollah has transformed, emboldened by learning Russian methods of war and becoming familiar with their advanced weaponry and technologies. Hezbollah has now amassed up to 150,000 rockets and missiles, and could launch over 1,500 rockets per day in a future conflict with Israel. On the Foreign Affairs Committee, Congressman Boyle remains steadfast in his efforts to hold Hezbollah and its allies accountable. Congressman Boyle remains outspoken in his commitment to ending violence in the Middle East and serves as co-chair of the Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria Caucus, which recently met with the renowned White Helmet search-and-rescue team to discuss humanitarian responses to the Syrian conflict and atrocities committed by the Assad regime and Russian military. He is also leading congressional efforts to hold the Russian government accountable for its military incursion into Ukrainian territory and its cybersecurity attacks on America and its allies. ###
10.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement in response to the 2018 budget resolution passed by Republicans in the Senate: "The Republican Budget passed by the Senate late last night is a bald-faced rebuke of American values and an open attack on the middle class families who already face odds stacked against them. Instead of investing in jobs, education, and a revitalized economy, this budget would balloon the deficit and hurt working families, children, seniors, and our environment. Worse still, they do this for the sole purpose of jamming though a partisan tax plan that will put millions in the pockets of the extremely wealthy and well-connected with just 50 Republican votes in the Senate. This is not a budget for the American people; it is a trillion-dollar gift to corporations and the mega-wealthy at the expense of the rest. I will keep fighting against this effort as a member of the House Budget Committee." ###
10.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s announcement that it will discontinue the Affordable Care Act’s cost-sharing reduction insurance subsidies for the middle class: “Through this blatantly partisan and cruel action, President Trump will rip healthcare coverage from countless American families whom he has sworn to serve. Unable to get his TrumpCare plan through Congress, the President is now maliciously and purposefully undermining insurance markets for the most vulnerable Americans, and ongoing bipartisan negotiations to improve our healthcare system in the wake of the GOP’s failed repeal efforts. “With this step, and yesterday’s executive action to erode the ACA’s consumer protections for those with pre-existing conditions, it is clear that President Trump is now actively undermining Americans’ access to healthcare for his own political gain. Ending cost-sharing reduction payments will make it harder for insurers to provide affordable coverage plans to consumers. These subsidies made it possible for working families to take their sick children to the doctor. They enabled insurers to enter small-town markets that would otherwise have few or no coverage options. Ending these subsidies will cause premiums to spike 20% in the next year and serve as a wrecking ball to basic healthcare access in our nation, and to the incredible progress in coverage that we’ve seen over the past 8 years thanks to the ACA. “It is appalling that our President would knowingly act to harm the American people in this way, and end coverage options for so many. The President’s actions are a blatant sabotage of the core tenants of our healthcare system – and a direct attack on the American people and their well-being. A president who prioritizes a political talking point over the most essential needs of the American people is nothing less than a serious threat to our nation.” ###
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, was honored at the 40th Anniversary celebration of the Ukrainian National Information Service with a “Friend of Ukraine” Award for his work in Congress on behalf of the Ukrainian-American community and a strong, democratic Ukraine. “I am honored to receive this award, and proud to call myself a friend of Ukraine,” said Congressman Boyle. “I remain fiercely committed to advocating for a strong and independent Ukraine, and combatting the Russian aggression that threatens democracy everywhere. We cannot forget that the war for a free and peaceful Europe is unfolding right now in Ukraine, and we must be vigilant in our defense of Ukrainian sovereignty. I’m proud to represent a vibrant, flourishing community of Ukrainian-Americans, and I won’t stop fighting here in Washington in support of our important ally, Ukraine.” Congressman Boyle has been an outspoken advocate for robust American support for Ukraine. Earlier this year he introduced H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act, legislation to encourage cooperation between the United States and Ukraine on matters of cybersecurity and require State Department reporting to Congress on best practices to protect against future cyber attacks. ###
10.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement ahead of President Trump's scheduled appearance in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: “When President Trump visits Pennsylvanians, he better be ready to explain why he’s pushing a disastrous tax reform plan that could jack up their taxes by $11,000 a year – all so the President’s wealthy and well-connected buddies can pocket billions. They have a right to know why healthcare premiums could go up nearly $6,000 in our commonwealth under Trumpcare, putting affordable care out of reach for so many working families. For all his campaign promises, why hasn’t the President passed a single piece of legislation to address our crumbling infrastructure, or raise wages, or create quality jobs in our country? Pennsylvania wants answers, Mr. President.” ###
10.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement after the Trump Administration announced its decision to repeal the Clean Power Plan, the Obama Administration’s flexible policy framework for reducing our domestic electricity sector’s greenhouse gas, soot, smog, and other harmful air emissions: “By repealing the Clean Power Plan, President Trump is jeopardizing our health, safety, economic competitiveness, and global leadership rather than boldly leading the global transition towards a modern, diverse, competitive clean energy economy and prioritizing the health of our communities. After billions in damages and the loss of thousands of jobs in the wake of extreme weather events this year, it is clear that the American people cannot afford to suffer the effects of unchecked climate change. We need a responsible transition to a clean energy economy and the highest standards for air and water quality. Anything less is a danger to American prosperity, leadership, and safety. President Trump’s failure to capture the opportunities associated with leading the global effort against climate change demonstrates a lack of vision and a propensity to put politics and special interests above all else. Climate change is real. This Administration’s denial hurts our country and our planet; today and tomorrow.” ###
10.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) issued the following statement after introducing his resolution to declare October 7th Trigeminal Neuralgia Awareness Day: “Every year, 120,000 to 150,000 Americans are diagnosed with Trigeminal Neuralgia, an excruciatingly painful disease, the causes of which are unknown. I am honored to introduce this resolution on behalf of a constituent in my district who bravely carries on in spite of this debilitating condition. It is my hope that by spreading awareness about Trigeminal Neuralgia, we can find medical and social support for those like her who are afflicted, as well as acknowledge the progress of the medical community in treatment and research.” ###
10.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC - Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement today in advance of the House floor vote on House Republicans’ 2018 Fiscal Year Budget this week: “I continue to oppose this morally indefensible budget in the strongest possible terms. Americans need a budget that will strengthen our infrastructure, create jobs, and give working families a fair shot at financial stability. Instead, Republicans have outlined a cruel plan that forsakes our government’s most basic obligations to children, seniors, struggling families, and the disabled. Instead of investing in the future of our country, this short-sighted budget would undermine some of our most critical investments and pull the rug out from under those Americans who are already struggling to make ends meet. “As a member of the Budget Committee and a Co-Chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, I have fought against this heartless legislation at every step and I will continue to do everything in my power to protect Americans from these reckless threats to the stability and security of our nation. Now more than ever, we need to invest in the dignity and well-being of America’s working families. We have the tools to rebuild the American dream – but this budget would be a wrecking ball.” Boyle voted against the GOP budget when it passed the House Budget Committee by a vote of 22-14 on a party line vote on July 19. He has consistently championed robust federal investment in jobs, education, environmental protection, and infrastructure – which the GOP budget would gut. Boyle believes the federal budget must grow the economy, fuel research and innovation, and create new opportunity for all Americans – not advance special interests at the expense of public interests. ###
10.03.2017	Today, Rep. Jan Schakowsky and Blue Collar Caucus Co-Chairs Brendan Boyle and Marc Veasey introduced the Patriot Employer Act. This bill would provide a tax credit to employers that invest in American jobs, pay fair wages, encourage employment of veterans and people with disabilities, and provide their employees with robust benefit packages. It would also close a tax loophole that incentivizes corporations to send jobs overseas. After introducing the bill, the Representatives released the following statements: “Our economy is rigged against working families. Corporations enjoy record profits while American families suffer from stagnant wages. It’s time we fix that, and we can start with our tax code,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “Americans need a tax code that rewards hard work and supports a strong middle class. The Patriot Employer Act does exactly that through a carrot and stick approach – rewarding businesses that invest in quality jobs right here in the United States and closing loopholes instead of giving tax breaks to corporations that offshore. It’s time we take a stand for the middle class and the American worker. Sadly, the Republican tax plan does the opposite.” “American workers have been held back by a rigged economy for decades,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky. “While executive’s bonuses skyrocket and corporate profits soar, American workers’ wages have stagnated. What the Patriot Employer Act proposes is simple: we should side with American workers and the businesses that value them, not corporations that undervalue and underpay workers, offshore their profits, dodge taxes, and outsource jobs. It’s time to make our tax code work for working families." “Workers are the backbone of our economy, but their efforts have not been rewarded even as corporate profits have skyrocketed,” said Congressman Marc Veasey. “That is why I’m proud to support Rep. Schakowsky’s Patriot Employer Act that would reward businesses who treat their employees with dignity and respect by paying them the fair wages they deserve. Most importantly, it incentivizes companies to keep good-paying jobs right here at home and contribute to reigniting our economy. This is the better deal hardworking families need, not a Republican tax plan that gives away big tax breaks to giant corporations while forcing middle-class families to foot the bill.” ###
10.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – The House Foreign Affairs Committee recently adopted Congressman Brendan F. Boyle’s (PA-13) amendment to sanction Russia for its continued support of the terrorist organization Hezbollah. The amendment ensures that Russia’s military coordination with Hezbollah will be sanctioned by the United States. HR 3329, the Hezbollah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2017, with Boyle’s amendment, was unanimously approved by the House Foreign Affairs Committee on and now awaits full consideration by the House. “Since Russia began its involvement in the Syrian conflict, its relationship with Hezbollah – a U.S.-designated terrorist organization that calls for the destruction of Israel and possesses an advanced rocket and missile arsenal – has become extremely disturbing,” said Congressman Boyle, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, in a statement after the passage of the amendment. “Hezbollah stands against everything we hold dear as Americans and endangers civilians by embedding its forces and weapons throughout civilian areas – a clear violation of international law. We need to make absolutely clear to Russia that collaboration with this terrorist militia will not be tolerated by the United States.” “By providing Hezbollah with advanced weapons and air support, Russia is elevating and empowering these merciless tyrants to harm our allies, like Israel, and innocent civilians throughout the region. Russia has reportedly transferred weapons to Hezbollah, including long-range tactical missiles, laser guided rockets and anti-tank weapons. This amendment will compel Russia to cease its support for Hezbollah in Syria or anywhere else, or else face sanctions by the United States.” Hezbollah has amassed up to 150,000 rockets and missiles and could launch over 1,500 rockets per day in a future conflict with Israel. In the ten years since the Second Lebanon War, Hezbollah has transformed and has been emboldened by learning Russian methods of war, becoming familiar with their advanced weaponry and technologies. Congressman Boyle has consistently fought to hold Hezbollah accountable in order to safeguard Israelis and Americans everywhere. H.R. 3329 targets foreign governments that knowingly provide significant financial support to Hezbollah and foreign individuals and companies that aid its fundraising or recruitment activities. Congressman Boyle has consistently fought to hold the Russian government accountable for its military incursion into Ukrainian territory and its threats to American cybersecurity. He is an emerging leader in Congressional efforts to bring an end to conflict in the Middle East, and serves as co-chair of the Friends of a Free, Stable and Democratic Syria Caucus, which recently met with the renowned White Helmet search-and-rescue team to discuss humanitarian responses to the Syrian conflict and atrocities committed by the Assad regime and Russian military. ###
09.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) made the following statement today about important federal funding awarded to Fox Chase Cancer Center, located in the congressional district he represents: “I am thrilled to announce the award of over $1 million in federal grants this month alone to support the incredible work of Fox Chase Cancer Center. Fox Chase Cancer Center teams received federal grant funding for projects ranging from innovative genetic research studies to planning for a collaborative research center in the Caribbean that will host medical partnerships with underserved populations. Each of these projects represents an investment in a future free from the tragedy of cancer and other diseases. I applaud Fox Chase’s commitment to cancer prevention, detection, survivorship and community outreach and I remain committed to ensuring the federal government’s support of that mission. “The excellence of our region’s medical community has long been a point of pride for the greater Philadelphia area. I will continue to advocate for federal funding that supports the life-changing research and care happening at Fox Chase and the other incredible medical institutions in our community.” Fox Chase Cancer Center has received six federal grants from the Department of Health and Human Services since the beginning of September. ###
09.20.2017	PHILADELPHIA – Today, during a press conference held in front of the rubble of the former Nabisco Plant in Northeast Philadelphia, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) condemned the corporate giant that formerly occupied the building and announced his forthcoming legislation with Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) and Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Sherrod Brown (D-OH) to reward companies that keep good jobs in the United States and punish those that do not. The Patriot Employer Act would provide a tax credit for businesses that invest in workers in the United States and offer them good wages and benefits, while closing a loophole that currently allows corporations to write off costs overseas and encourages offshoring. “When the billionaires at Mondeléz decided to close this plant and move production to Mexico, they didn’t just leave an empty building behind – they left a gaping hole in this community. They left hundreds of lives in pieces, and we’re standing here today in the wreckage,” said Congressman Boyle, alongside a group of former workers who lost their livelihoods when the plant closed. “What happened here is a disgrace – but it is totally legal, and almost invited by our tax code. That’s why I’m introducing legislation to give companies real incentives to stay and grow in the United States – and real, serious consequences if they leave.” “This is a carrot and stick approach,” continued Boyle, “because we need to use every tool at our disposal to put workers and their families first. No more tax loopholes for CEOs who screw over American workers just to jack up their own salaries. No more abandoned factories and forgotten communities. American workers are not disposable. It’s time to fix an economy that is rigged against working families, and we can start with our tax code.” The former Kraft and Nabisco plant ceased production in June of 2015, resulting in layoffs for 350 workers. The Patriot Employer Act would raise taxes for companies like Mondeléz, the former owner of the plant, that invest in low-wage manufacturing overseas while killing jobs in the United States. Through revenue from these taxes, the bill would provide a tax credit for “Patriot Employers,” U.S.-based companies that empower the American workforce by recruiting veterans, paying fair wages, and contributing to retirement security. Congressman Boyle has vehemently criticized Mondeléz’s decision to close the Philadelphia plant since it was first announced. He even led a boycott of Mondeléz products, urging consumers to ‘Say No to Oreo’ in a widely publicized 2015 speech on the floor of the House of Representatives. As a co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, Boyle has been a consistent champion of policies that serve the middle class and working families by investing in quality American jobs. He was recently appointed co-chair of the new Jobs with Dignity task force by Democratic House Leadership. ###
09.19.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s remarks before the United Nations Assembly: “This morning, President Trump once again demonstrated his insufficient grasp of world affairs, his disdain for our allies abroad, and his failure to lead by example on the international stage. Throwing around catastrophic threats and disparaging insults does not make America stronger – it makes our government look unhinged. Meanwhile, for all his lip service to American leadership abroad, President Trump has neglected to fill countless posts at the U.S. State Department, leaving our diplomatic apparatus in disarray. His proposed budget would slash funding for peacebuilding missions and international development projects that improve global health, fight poverty, and protect American security. President Trump’s words may champion peace, but his actions spell catastrophe.” “President Trump claims he was elected to ‘give power to the American people’ – yet after nearly nine months in office he has failed to deliver a single piece of legislation that would create quality jobs or benefit working families. If President Trump really wants to ‘put America first,’ he should propose an infrastructure bill to revitalize our economy and put Americans back to work, as he’d promised as a candidate.” ###
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON – Today, House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley announced his decision to name Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) to serve as co-chair of the newly formed Jobs with Dignity Task Force. The Jobs with Dignity Task Force is one of the five “Jobs for America” task forces convened by the Caucus this week as part of a unified effort to address the most pressing needs of middle class families and create a visionary Democratic policy agenda to fuel a strong economy for all Americans. The Jobs with Dignity Task Force will focus on creating and advancing innovative policy solutions to restore dignity to the American worker through higher wages, better employee benefits, increased profit-sharing, and genuine financial, retirement, and job security for all. “I’m honored to have been selected by House Democratic Leadership for this formative role,” said Congressman Boyle in a statement following the announcement. “Workers are the backbone of this nation, but today they are struggling more than ever to keep their heads above water. Wage stagnation and retirement insecurity are the challenges of our time. The American worker no longer believes she can work hard for fair pay and provide her children a better life. Sadly, more than ever, she is right. She is literally working harder for less. Despite record productivity and a soaring stock market, far too many Americans are barely scraping by, even while working multiple jobs to support their families.” “House Democrats are the true champions of the middle class and those aspiring to be in it. This task force will ensure that our legislative agenda takes to heart the challenges facing working Americans today and translates that into a proactive agenda that champions their needs.” Boyle continued, “As the son of a janitor and a crossing guard, and the co-founder of the Blue Collar Caucus formed in the wake of the 2016 election, I thank Chairman Crowley for his leadership and look forward to working with my colleagues in this important effort.” House Democratic Caucus Chairman Joe Crowley (D-NY) added, “Workers deserve access to safe and secure jobs that give them the ability to climb the ladders of opportunity and build a nest egg for their golden years. Unfortunately, we’ve seen these opportunities dwindle, and that must change. Democrats are committed to bringing these jobs back, and I’m grateful to Congressman Boyle for his leadership on this important task force. We must do all we can to put Americans back to work in good-paying, reliable jobs that allow them a fair shot at the future they deserve.” Congressman Boyle will co-chair the Jobs with Dignity Task Force with Congressman Don Beyer (VA-8), Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14), and Congressman Raul Ruiz (CA-36). The four additional Jobs for America Task Forces are focused on: Rebuilding America, Access to Jobs, the New Economy, and Reinvesting in Our Returning Heroes. For more information on the House Democratic Caucus’ Jobs for America Task Forces, please visit: www.dems.gov/jobsforamerica ###
09.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Last night the U.S. House of Representatives adopted Congressman Brendan F. Boyle’s (PA-13) amendment to provide $1.9 million additional funding for the Agency for Toxic Substances and Diseases Registry (ATSDR) in the coming fiscal year. The ATSDR is the agency heading local medical testing and health studies in response to water contamination stemming from the use of AFFF firefighting chemicals at Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station. Congressman Boyle’s amendment is now attached to H.R. 3354, the ‘Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act, 2018,’ which is expected to pass the House next week. “Thorough health screenings and on-the-ground investigations are essential to a comprehensive response to the contamination in our community,” said Congressman Boyle. “This amendment will ensure that the residents of Willow Grove and Horsham, and neighborhoods all across the country that have been affected by PFOA and PFOS chemicals in their drinking water, can benefit from the life-saving research and expertise provided by a fully-funded ATSDR. I’m fighting to secure every possible resource for those suffering from the effects of water contamination, and to ensure their health concerns are taken extremely seriously by our federal government.” The ATSDR, a federal public health agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, protects communities from harmful health effects related to exposure to natural and man-made hazardous substances by investigating public health threats and emergencies and providing guidance for state and local officials. Congressman Boyle convened a public town hall with officials from the ATSDR, EPA, CDC, U.S. Navy, Pennsylvania Air National Guard, Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection and Pennsylvania Department of Health at Hatboro-Horsham High School in August of 2016 in order to enable local residents to discuss their concerns and have their questions answered directly by those responsible for the federal response to the local contamination. In August of 2016, Congressman Boyle led a letter to the ATSDR requesting that the agency conduct updated community health studies in the affected areas and release recent toxicological studies on the human health impacts of exposure to Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS). In July, he passed an amendment securing an additional $60 million in environmental remediation funding for the Navy and Air Force to address water contamination caused by AFFF firefighting chemicals containing PFOA and PFOS compounds, as well as another amendment requiring the Department of Defense to evaluate and report to Congress on safe, effective alternatives to AFFF that do not contain PFOA or PFOS. ###
09.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) today introduced legislation, H.R. 3693, to abolish the United States debt ceiling. The debt ceiling is a statutory limit on the amount of national debt that may be issued by the U.S. Treasury after it has spent and incurred that debt. It ultimately limits how much money the federal government can borrow to pay its own bills. “The debt ceiling, and the constant crisis it creates through repeated threats of government shutdown, is unnecessary and problematic to say the least. It’s no wonder that only a handful of countries around the world currently follow this disruptive, arbitrary and restrictive fiscal practice,” said Congressman Boyle. “When you receive your credit card statement at the end of the month, you can’t decide ‘I’ll pay this, but won’t pay that.’ Our current process of ‘governing by deadline’ and playing chicken with the debt ceiling is essentially doing just that – and risking the full faith and credit of the United States,” continued Boyle. “This is reckless and irresponsible.” Congressman Boyle’s bill would repeal the statutory debt limit that sets a legal limit to how much the Treasury can borrow. Secretary of the Treasury Mnuchin has repeatedly emphasized to Congress that it’s critical to raise the debt ceiling by September 29. He has employed “extraordinary measures” since March to conserve money to pay our bills. According to the Congressional Budget Office, the government may miss certain payments in October if the Treasury Department is no longer able to pay the government’s bills. This would threaten payments on programs like Social Security and Medicare. An agreement struck between President Trump and Congressional Democrats just before midnight last night would end the threat of a government shutdown and a default on the national debt at the end of September, but only for three months. Congress will face a Dec. 8 deadline to strike another deal to avert those fiscal cliffs. ###
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement today in response to President Trump’s decision that his administration will end the Deferred Action Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program. “As the proud son of an immigrant myself, I am appalled by this shameless and irrational disavowal of our nation’s immigrant youth who contribute so much to our country every day. DACA has empowered 800,000 bright, promising young people, who were brought to this country through no choice of their own as children, to come forward out of the shadows and pursue higher education, work legally, pay taxes, and have a real place in the only country they call home. Dreamers are our nurses, our teachers, our local business owners. They are Americans in every way but on paper. This heartless, illogical action is not part of any coherent plan to improve immigration or fight crime.” DACA participants, or Dreamers, were brought to the United States as children, have been in the United States for the last ten years, are in school or served in the military, and have not committed a crime. They undergo thorough periodic background checks to authorize their protected legal status in the country. Studies show that ending DACA would cost Pennsylvania alone over $357 million in annual GDP losses, and cost the United States over $460 billion in GDP losses over the next decade. At least 72 percent of the top 25 Fortune 500 companies—including Apple, General Motors, Amazon, JPMorgan Chase, and Wells Fargo—employ Dreamers. Congressman Boyle has been a consistent supporter of legislation to protect young undocumented immigrants and create sensible pathways to citizenship or legal status that enables these young adults to be protected, productive members of our society. In August, he joined 156 other Democrats on a letter to President Trump urging him to continue administering the DACA program. Congressman Boyle also joined an amicus brief to the Supreme Court in support of the program. He also cosponsors legislation, H.R. 3591, the American Hope Act, which would provide young undocumented immigrants who were brought to the U.S. as children with protection from deportation and an opportunity to obtain conditional legal status if they meet certain requirements. ###
08.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and David Cicilline (RI-1), along with 17 other Democratic members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, sent a letter today to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson urging him to preserve the promotion of democratic values as part of the Department of State’s mission statement. The letter followed reporting that Secretary Tillerson has ordered the State Department to redefine its mission and issue a new statement of purpose that eliminates references to promoting democracy – a central pillar of U.S. foreign policy. “The advancement of democratic ideals is fundamental to America’s mission abroad,” said Congressman Boyle, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee since 2015. “Encouraging free and fair elections and open expression around the globe is our best strategy for building a more peaceful and prosperous world. To strike this essential goal from the mission of the State Department equates to an abandonment of that hopeful vision, and would only serve to undermine American leadership and encourage oppressors worldwide. The strength of our commitment to democratic ideals in the face of turmoil gives powerful credence to the cause of freedom everywhere. As our top diplomat, Secretary Tillerson should not consider those ideals disposable.” According to an internal State Department email obtained by the Washington Post, a draft of the new State Department mission statement reads: “Lead America’s foreign policy through global advocacy, action and assistance to shape a safer, more prosperous world,” conspicuously omitting any mention of justice or democracy. 19 members of Congress signed the letter opposing such an omission, the text of which is below. They are: Brendan Boyle, David Cicilline, Ranking Member Eliot Engel, Brad Sherman, Gregory Meeks, Albio Sires, Gerald Connolly, Ted Deutch, William Keating, Ami Bera, Lois Frankel, Joaquin Castro, Robin Kelly, Dina Titus, Norma Torres, Bradley Schneider, Thomas Suozzi, Adriano Espaillat, and Ted Lieu. Congressman Boyle has been an active proponent of foreign democratic outreach during his tenure in Congress. He was recently honored as a ‘Distinguished Friend of Ukraine’ for his work in government to support the furtherance of democracy in that country. LETTER BELOW: Dear Secretary Tillerson: As members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who care deeply about democracy and human rights, we are very concerned by recent reports detailing orders to redefine the Department of State mission and issue a new statement of purpose that eliminates any reference to the promotion of democracy. The Department of State’s current mission statement clearly details its aim to “shape and sustain a peaceful, prosperous, just, and democratic world and foster conditions for stability and progress for the benefit of the American people and people everywhere.” This statement is a signal to the world of our priorities and intentions. The United States promotes these values through public diplomacy, foreign assistance programs, and diplomatic and citizen initiatives that reflect our nation’s ideals. The promotion of democracy brings greater peace, prosperity and pluralism to the global community. For decades democracy promotion has been a cornerstone of U.S. foreign policy over successive bipartisan administrations. Our values-based foreign policy distinguishes us from those countries around the world who seek to promote only their own bottom line to the detriment of everyone else. Strong U.S. support for democracy promotion worldwide protects American interests and national security, and allows us to build stronger alliances, work in conjunction with local communities, and move countries beyond the need for assistance as we support the development of stable democratic institutions. A retreat from democracy promotion is a retreat from American leadership, and sends a message that will be heard clearly in Moscow, Beijing, Caracas, and everywhere else authoritarian leaders seek to consolidate control. We urge you to retain in any revision of the Department of State’s mission or statement of purpose our nation's longstanding commitment to democracy promotion. The United States must stand firmly for rule of law, free speech, freedom of religion and human dignity. The Department of State must strive to promote liberty and justice for all. We look forward to your response. ###
08.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) and Ryan Costello (R-PA-6) announced the formation of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Caucus to focus congressional efforts on protecting the federal Public Service Loan Forgiveness program. Created in 2007 to encourage more Americans to pursue public service careers despite the financial burdens of their student debt, this program promises to forgive the remaining balance of federal Direct Loans owed by our teachers, firefighters, police officers and other full-time public service workers after they have faithfully paid on those loans for 10 years – 120 on-time payments – during public service employment. Announcing the launch of the caucus, Congressman Boyle said, “We must do more to help folks drowning in student loan debt, and to prevent the burdens of student loan debt from making one’s desire to serve his or her community unattainable. The PSLF Caucus will focus on making good on our collective promise to public servants who have served their communities for years, often for low pay in positions that may have otherwise not been financially manageable, with the understanding that the 10-year-old Public Service Loan Forgiveness program would eventually help them lighten their burden of student debt. Current threats to end or limit the program are shortsighted, to say the least. PSLF is an incentive to our students, and an investment in our future.” Congressman Costello added, “Many teachers, first responders, and public health specialists are working hard to make a difference in their local communities while relying on the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program. We must fulfill the promise made to these student borrowers over the past decade. As the 10-year anniversary of the program approaches, I’m pleased to be a co-founding member of the Public Service Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Caucus to advocate on behalf of these public servants.” The PSLF Caucus is broadly supported by a coalition of more than fifty organizations led by the National Education Association (NEA). Marc Egan, NEA Director of Government Relations, commended the caucus. “NEA members—from future teachers to retirees—have been sounding the alarm on student debt. Many of our members are struggling with more than $50,000, and sometimes much more, in student loan debt. Their debt is bigger than their annual salaries, and their monthly loan payments often are bigger than their home and car loans. We commend Congressmen Boyle and Costello for stepping up and forming a caucus to tackle the college debt issue and to fight to protect the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.” The PSLF Caucus will also foster member discussion and legislative ideas focused on encouraging young people in college today to pursue careers in public service, such as teachers, firefighters, prosecutors and public defenders, and public health nurses. Under PSLF, one’s outstanding federal student debt is wiped away after 120 on-time, qualifying monthly payments — 10 years’ worth of payments. More than half a million people have enrolled over the last decade. President Trump’s budget proposed ending the program. ###
08.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) issued the following statement concerning an inquiry he submitted to the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Services (USDA-APHIS) in March of this year concerning the backlog and delays in enforcing federal animal welfare laws: “This spring, I reached out to the USDA on behalf of my constituents who are disturbed by cases of animal abuse and neglect in Pennsylvania and around the country. Many such cases involve confirmed violations of our most basic standards for animal welfare – yet the USDA’s investigations of these violent practices were delayed for months, or even years. I was extremely troubled to learn from USDA that there is a backlog of nearly 500 open, uninvestigated cases of animal welfare violations, and that the average time it takes to close such a case is 499 days. I remain committed to addressing this backlog and lack of timely, effective enforcement of federal law.” Congressman Boyle’s inquiry to the USDA (available here) referenced two specific investigations which have been critically delayed. The first, a Florida company which sells primates for use in testing, was cited in May of 2015 for at least 25 violations of animal welfare regulations. The second, a Pennsylvania farm, was cited in December of 2015 for at least 117 instances of violations. Both cases are still pending internal agency review. ###
08.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) and Patrick Meehan (PA-07) are responding to information provided by the Department of Defense regarding a 2001 Aqueous Film Forming Workshop, which acknowledged the dangers posed by firefighting foams used on military bases – including those in Bucks and Montgomery counties. A copy of the Dept. of Defense’s response to the group’s June 9, 2017 request is attached and can be found HERE. In their response, the congressmen continue to press the Department about the timeline surrounding the issue and inquire into apparent regulatory shortcomings. “The current version of Department of Defense (DOD) MILSPEC M-F-24385F, Section 3.2 Materials, states ‘Concentrates shall consist of fluorocarbon surfactants plus other compounds as required to conform to the requirements specified hereinafter. The material shall have no adverse effect on the health of personnel when used for its intended purpose.’ Even in 2001, it would appear this MILSPEC has not been followed, as the use of PFOS/PFOA has indeed caused adverse effects on the health of personnel when used, including the runoff, being the contributing factor for the groundwater being contaminated,” wrote the group. “How can PFOS, a chemical known to be harmful, even back in 2001, can be chosen for use when the MILSPEC itself states any such material cannot be harmful during its intended use?” The complete letter text is below. A signed copy is attached and can be found HERE The Honorable James Mattis Secretary U.S. Department of Defense 1400 Defense Pentagon Washington, D.C. 20301-1400 Dear Secretary Mattis, We write to you today in order to continue the conversation on the contamination of public and private drinking water wells near the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster, the former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in Horsham, as well as the Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania. First, we would like to thank you for your prompt response to our letter dated June 9, 2017 requesting the 2001 memorandum on the Aqueous Film Forming Workshop. The information was certainly helpful in better understanding the conversations being had between your department and relevant stakeholders on what chemicals were deemed most appropriate in 2001. Within the provided letter, the Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, Force Protection, Curtis Bowling, explains the toxicity of PFOS and the desire to find a replacement in either telomer or PFOA after the workshop. When reviewing new chemicals to take the place of PFOS, why was the decision made to only review PFOA and certain telomer chemicals, instead of expanding the search to Alcohol-Resistant AFFF technology or PYROCOOL/NOVACOOL Fire Extinguishing Foam (FEF)? Many of these technologies were invented before 2000, and began production by the time of this workshop. The current version of Department of Defense (DOD) MILSPEC M-F-24385F, Section 3.2 Materials, states “Concentrates shall consist of fluorocarbon surfactants plus other compounds as required to conform to the requirements specified hereinafter. The material shall have no adverse effect on the health of personnel when used for its intended purpose.” Even in 2001, it would appear this MILSPEC has not been followed, as the use of PFOS/PFOA has indeed caused adverse effects on the health of personnel when used, including the runoff, being the contributing factor for the groundwater being contaminated. How can PFOS, a chemical known to be harmful, even back in 2001, can be chosen for use when the MILSPEC itself states any such material cannot be harmful during its intended use? Our offices appreciate the Department’s recent commitment to ensuring the safety of our service members when reviewing new products for use in Class B fires. We respectfully request a comprehensive update on the Department’s progress toward selecting a safe and effective alternative to PFOS/PFOA-containing AFFF, and how Congress may be of assistance to you and the rest of the Department of Defense with this matter moving forward. Our goal remains swiftly and comprehensively addressing the contamination that is currently impacting the communities we represent in addition to the many hundreds of impacted communities nationwide, and preventing an issue like this from occurring again. Thank you for your time and ongoing commitment to this matter, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, Congress voted 256-169 to adopt Congressman Brendan F. Boyle’s amendment to provide an additional $60 million in environmental remediation funding for the Navy and Air Force to address water contamination caused by firefighting chemicals used on military properties nationwide, including Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station. Congressman Boyle released the following statement commending the strong bipartisan vote: “This amendment is critical next step in our effort to support the communities who have been affected by PFOS and PFOA drinking water contamination from AFFF firefighting foam. The families who have suffered as a result of this contamination, in my district and around the country, deserve better from our federal government. This funding will enable the Department of Defense to give these families greater peace of mind when it comes to the safety of their drinking water. “I must also thank my Republican friends and neighbors, Pat Meehan and Brian Fitzpatrick, for working shoulder to shoulder with me in this fight. We’ll keep fighting on behalf of the communities who have been impacted by this pollution.” Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), including perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS), have threatened the drinking water of some 70,000 residents in Bucks and Montgomery Counties surrounding Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station due to the use of AFFF on site. The Department of Defense has identified over 400 other properties of potential concern nationwide where studies are ongoing. So far, water contamination has been found near 27 military bases in 16 states, according to numbers from the Air Force, Navy, and Army. The military has also addressed contamination in on-base drinking water systems on 15 installations across the country. In June, Congressman Boyle reintroduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3106, to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set an enforceable nationwide drinking water standard for PFCs including PFOA and PFOS. Currently, only a voluntary EPA lifetime health advisory exists for these “contaminants of emerging concern.” Earlier this month, Congress passed the National Defense Authorization Act with Congressman Boyle’s amendment requiring the Department of Defense to report to Congress on its progress determining a safer, effective alternative to the polluting foam that does not contain PFOA and PFOS. ###
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Tonight, the U.S. House will vote on an amendment offered by Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) that would appropriate a $30 million funding increase each for the Navy and Air Force for the purpose of remediating contamination caused by firefighting foams used at military installations nationwide. The contaminants, including perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS), are the cause of local drinking water contamination in the area surrounding Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station, and across the country. “The federal government has a responsibility to ensure the safety of our drinking water, and to act quickly and decisively when that is threatened – especially when such threat is at the hands of the military,” said Congressman Boyle. “The families surrounding NAS-JRB Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station have paid for endless stockpiles of bottled water and higher utility fees as their communities took steps to reduce their water system’s exposure. The DOD owes them better. And, our community is just one of so many across the country.” Continued Boyle, “This funding is a necessary response to an ongoing environmental issue that is only going to get worse – and more expensive – for the Department and the countless innocent communities impacted across the country.” Perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), including PFOA and PFOS, have threatened the drinking water of some 70,000 residents in Bucks and Montgomery Counties surrounding Willow Grove and Horsham Air Guard Station due to the use of AFFF on site. The Department of Defense has identified over 400 other properties of potential concern nationwide where studies are ongoing. So far, water contamination has been found near 27 military bases in 16 states, according to numbers from the Air Force, Navy, and Army. The military has also addressed contamination in on-base drinking systems on 15 installations. In June, Congressman Boyle reintroduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3106, to require the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set an enforceable nationwide drinking water standard for PFCs including PFOA and PFOS. Currently, only a voluntary EPA lifetime health advisory exists for these “contaminants of emerging concern.” Earlier this month, Congress passed the National Defense Authorization Act with Congressman Boyle’s amendment requiring the Department of Defense to report to Congress on its progress determining a safer, effective alternative to the polluting foam that does not contain PFOA and PFOS. ###
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and 88 Democratic colleagues today sent a letter to House Speaker Paul Ryan outlining a bipartisan path to improving the Affordable Care Act aimed at correcting issues in the individual insurance market. Their letter to Speaker Ryan follows the unveiling on July 12th of a five-part plan to stabilize the individual insurance marketplace. “While Republicans continue their efforts to defund Medicaid, shorten the solvency of Medicare, strip women’s health services, and re-instate lifetime caps and penalties for so-called pre-existing conditions, I am fighting to instead protect the ACA’s coverage gains while correcting its flaws with targeted solutions,” said Congressman Boyle. “The individual market, accounting for seven percent of health care enrollees nationwide, needs improvement. We are ready to work with Republicans in a bipartisan manner to stabilize and improve the individual market if GOP Leadership would only give us a chance, rather than continuing to ram through ACA repeal and massive tax cuts for the one percent.” The text of the letter follows: The Honorable Paul Ryan Speaker of the House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Ryan, We strongly support the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and oppose any effort to repeal it. While we know you and many in your conference disagree with us, we believe there is a significant point of agreement. The individual market, accounting for seven percent of health care enrollees nationwide, needs improvement. Senate Republicans have indicated a willingness to work with Democrats to address this. We are ready to work with you in a bipartisan manner to stabilize and improve the individual market. The Challenge to the Individual Market When the ACA markets opened in 2014, it was a challenge for insurers to price their products. They had little claims data on and experience with an expanded group of customers with which to make actuarially accurate predictions. The risk mitigation programs in the ACA, which subsidize high cost enrollees, were largely successful in addressing the early pricing challenges, helping ease the adjustment period in the individual market. The risk corridor program, designed to address uncertainty in the insurance pool, encountered funding issues. According to nonpartisan analysis, individual markets began to stabilize between 2015 and early 2017, but face issues in 2018 largely due to policy uncertainty. While we may disagree on why this is the case, the fact remains our constituents would benefit from bipartisan Congressional action to bring long-term stability and predictability to the individual market. What Congress Can Do Congress must address market uncertainty with clear bipartisan policies that will stabilize the individual market and protect citizens who depend on them. These policies include: 1. Reauthorizing and making permanent federal reinsurance programs These programs provide a backstop against high cost medical claims while also reducing premiums in the individual and small group markets. Alaska and Oregon have taken steps to implement such programs, and both have shown promise to reduce premium increases dramatically. A recent analysis cited by America’s Health Insurance Plans estimated that if Congress provided $15 billion to states for reinsurance, it would lower premiums by more than 14 percent. This in turn would reduce the need for tax credits. The net effect would be a reduction in overall cost of this improvement from $15 billion to an estimated $4 billion. 2. Funding the Cost-Sharing Reduction Subsidies (CSR) The ACA helps millions of families purchase affordable health coverage, and helps keep out of pocket costs low through the cost sharing reduction payments. These payments reduce copays and deductibles for lower and middle-income families across the country. A Kaiser Family Foundation study found that eliminating the CSR payments would increase government spending by $2.3 billion next year. Uncertainty about the future of the CSR program is causing extreme instability in the marketplace, the major factor forcing insurers to consider withdrawing from markets or imposing unaffordable premium increases. We should put this uncertainty to rest. While a simple administrative directive affirming current law could return markets to stability, Congress could work on a bipartisan basis to underscore that there is an appropriation to address Republican concerns with simple technical clarifying language, at no federal cost, to guarantee the CSR payments going forward. 3. Getting more people covered, and ensuring participation The broader the participation in the health insurance market, the better it is for all citizens and health plans. California has essentially reached full coverage in part because Covered California has spent more on advertising than all of the federally-managed exchanges combined. We support investment in advertising during the open enrollment period, particularly to encourage the participation of the young and healthy. All Americans will face significant health issues at some point in their lives, so we must ensure that they are covered and contribute to the insurance market. The ACA requires them to come into the market and take responsibility for their health. We support those requirements; however we recognize there are other ways to meet this goal. Some have suggested auto-enrollment or affordable plans for young people that maintain the protections offered by the ACA. 4. Ensuring quality affordable options exist We must continue our efforts to make health coverage more affordable for all Americans, while retaining the critical benefits that families rely on when a loved one is sick. We can do so by expanding premium assistance to directly bring down the cost of insurance. We are willing to explore options to target this assistance by age and geography as well as income. In addition, we support providing some enrollees the option to buy in to Medicare as they approach retirement age, allowing for additional affordable and reliable options through traditional Medicare and Medicare Advantage programs. There are other practical improvements we can make to the ACA. These include taking steps to increase competition where insurer participation is low, reducing churn in the market, and providing clear guidelines for state innovation waivers that maintain the ACA’s quality standards. And where improvements to the ACA require funding, we are prepared to work with you to identify offsets to pay for them. The cost of stabilizing the individual market is modest while the benefit to the American people is great. The only way to productively solve these challenges is by working together. We are ready to work with you and the Republican conference. Sincerely,
07.24.2017	Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) today introduced a series of amendments to the package of annual funding bills the House will consider this week that would prevent any of the bills’ funding from being used to pay for the President’s legal team or special council for the Russia investigation. The spending bills cover defense, military construction, veterans affairs, legislative branch, and energy funding accounts. Congressman Boyle released the following statement after introducing his amendments: “I refuse to allow the Trump administration to sink hard-earned American tax dollars into defending their alarming legal entanglements. I’m fighting for these commonsense amendments to make sure we draw a clear line in the sand to protect our public funds from being used for private scandals. It deeply concerns me that these actions are even necessary, but Congress must stay vigilant in our oversight of the executive branch. It is unacceptable for President Trump to use a single penny of these funds to pay his lawyers. Frankly, it is preposterous that the U.S. president is even involved in an indignity of this scale.” Earlier this month, Boyle also introduced legislation, H.R. 3191, and an amendment to the defense authorization bill, H.R. 2810, to prohibit the use of funds for any cooperation with Russia or Russian affiliates on matters of cybersecurity. ###
07.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Following reports this week that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson will shut down the State Department’s Office of the Coordinator for Cyber Issues (S/CCI), U.S. Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) led a letter joined by Reps. Kathleen Rice (NY-04), Debbie Dingell (MI-12) and 19 colleagues strongly urging Tillerson to reconsider the decision, which would leave the U.S. as the only major country without a lead cybersecurity diplomat. “It is imperative the United States continues to have a lead diplomat for cybersecurity issues, ensuring the United States remains able to work with foreign partners to fulfill its mission of promoting an open, interoperable, secure, and reliable cyberspace while continuing to deter malicious activity, bolster global cybersecurity and avoid conflict in cyberspace,” the Representatives wrote. “Cybersecurity is one area where bipartisan agreements on policy and strategy still exist. At a time when the world is more interconnected than ever and we face constant cyber threats from state actors, it is vital that we retain a high-level diplomatic role to report directly to the Secretary on global cybersecurity.” The S/CCI office plays a critical role in leading cyberspace interactions with other nations, mitigating potential conflicts, coordinating U.S. response to cyber threats, including outbreaks of ransomware, and protecting American companies from the theft of trade secrets and intellectual property. Secretary Tillerson’s proposal would fold S/CCI into the State Department’s Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, which the Representatives note would not be able to provide the same level of expertise on cyber issues. “It is also critical to retain a direct line of communication between the S/CCI Coordinator and the Secretary to ensure that you are aware of all potential threats from abroad,” they added. In addition to Boyle, Dingell and Rice, the letter is signed by Reps. Ted Lieu (CA-33), Mike Doyle (PA-14), Steve Cohen (TN-09), Tom O'Halleran (AZ-01), Bill Keating (MA-09), Gwen Moore (WI-04), Frank Pallone, Jr. (NJ-06), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Jerry McNerney (CA-09), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Adam Schiff (CA-28), Denny Heck (WA-10), Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-02), Joe Courtney (CT-02), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Val Demings (FL-10), Jacky Rosen (NV-03), Jim McGovern (MA-02), Keith Ellison (MN-05). The full letter is here and below. July 21, 2017 The Honorable Rex Tillerson Secretary of State 2201 C Street NW Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Tillerson, This letter is in regards to recent media reports that the Department of State is planning to close the Office of Coordinator for Cyber Issues (S/CCI). We urge you to strongly reconsider this decision. It is imperative the United States continues to have a lead diplomat for cybersecurity issues, ensuring the United States remains able to work with foreign partners to fulfill its mission of promoting an open, interoperable, secure, and reliable cyberspace while continuing to deter malicious activity, bolster global cybersecurity and avoid conflict in cyberspace. The S/CCI plays a vital role in cyberspace interactions with other nations. Recently we have seen nations brazenly defying international norms in cyberspace. Continuing a dialogue with our allies and countries around the world on issues like Internet governance, responsible state behavior, curbing cybercrime, and responding to international cyber incidents makes America and cyberspace a safer place. The S/CCI also plays a key role in leading United States delegations in international cyber meetings – a role of increasing importance following daily threats to multiple segments of our economy and critical infrastructure. Additionally, with the increase in nation-state backed cyber-attacks and the heightened alert that rightfully follows, there are situations where misinterpretation of motives can quickly escalate a situation. It is becoming increasingly difficult to discern the difference between offensive and defensive behavior in cyberspace, as defensive action can easily be misconstrued as an act of aggression or vice versa. A misreading or miscalculation can lead to international strife and can further intensify conflict. The State Department and S/CCI have a key role in mitigating potential conflict in these scenarios. The importance of a harmonized and coordinated American cyber policy spans the entire global economic system. Whether it is coordinating an international response to an outbreak of ransomware, fighting Distributed Denial of Service attacks, or protecting American companies from the theft of trade secrets and intellectual property, the critical role S/CCI plays in coordinating a U.S. response with our own government agencies, the private sector, and foreign governments cannot be overstated. A strong and coordinated response to these issues will ensure American leadership in the continually changing landscape of cyberspace. Although we appreciate your efforts to streamline the State Department’s functions, it would be unwise to move S/CCI into the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs. This office has an invaluable mission to engage with other countries on issues of economic importance, but it would not be able to provide the singular expertise on cyber issues that S/CCI does. It is also critical to retain a direct line of communication between the S/CCI Coordinator and the Secretary to ensure that you are aware of all potential threats from abroad. Cybersecurity is one area where bipartisan agreements on policy and strategy still exist. At a time when the world is more interconnected than ever and we face constant cyber threats from state actors, it is vital that we retain a high-level diplomatic role to report directly to the Secretary on global cybersecurity. We must continue to make the Internet and cyberspace a secure and stable place to communicate, do business, and engage in a free and open exchange of ideas. We know you share these goals, and therefore urge you to appoint a S/CCI Coordinator and reconsider proposals to close or reorganize the office. ###
07.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Members of the Congressional Blue Collar Caucus met Wednesday with Richard L. Trumka, President of the AFL-CIO, to discuss the needs of blue collar workers and how House Democrats can make it clear that they will continue to serve as their champion in Washington. Trumka, a national leader in the fight for workers’ rights and economic justice, began the discussion with remarks on the modern challenges of labor rights and the ongoing effort by Democrats to respond to the needs of working class families. “We have to do better for blue-collar workers in America. And the Democratic Party has to do a better job reaching out,” said Mr. Trumka. “So I greatly appreciate the House Blue Collar Caucus for hosting me. We had an important discussion about how best to advance a pro-worker legislative agenda on everything from infrastructure to trade. I look forward to a continued dialogue and a long-term partnership with the caucus co-chairs and members.” The Blue Collar Caucus, founded in 2016 by Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Congressman Marc Veasey (TX-33), seeks to address the growing economic strain felt by working families and reignite a Democratic platform that champions job growth, economic opportunity and workers’ rights. Fifteen members of the caucus representing districts across the country attended the meeting for a frank discussion about issues ranging from infrastructure to preventing companies from shipping jobs overseas, and how the Democratic Party can lead the way legislatively on these and other critical economic issues. “Blue collar workers built this country and its economy from the ground up,” said Congressman Boyle. “Now, too many of them feel that we’ve let them down. They need to know that they have strong voices here in Washington advocating for them every day, fighting for their fair shot at an economy that works for them, and confronting those in Washington that have let wages fall, let jobs and benefits disappear, and let communities crumble to the benefit of the wealthy and well-connected. I’m thrilled to have had this meeting with Richard Trumka, one of the strongest and most consistent champions for Americans workers, and my fellow Democrats who are taking that fight to Congress on behalf of our nation’s blue collar families.” “Fighting for good-paying jobs has been a top priority since my first day in Congress. From rebuilding our country’s infrastructure to making sure we restore America’s position as a manufacturing leader, this work could not be accomplished without the skills and labor of blue collar workers,” Congressman Veasey said. “It is important that their voices are heard in Washington and their right to fair pay, health care, and economic security is protected against continued assaults against their livelihood. I was eager to hear firsthand from Richard Trumka, a long-time champion for workers nationwide and a leading advocate for America’s blue collar families, to learn how Democrats can work alongside the men and women who build our nation every day to shape a future that works for everyone.” The AFL-CIO represents 12.5 million working men and women through 55 national and international labor unions. By working with industry and labor leaders like Trumka and providing a strong Democratic voice for workers in Congress, the Blue Collar Caucus aims to fight wage stagnation, job insecurity, offshoring, and harmful trade policies. By confronting the challenges facing modern American manufacturing alongside those who know it best, Caucus members will continue to hold the Trump Administration accountable to blue collar workers and advocate for innovative policy and industry solutions to empower the American workforce amid technological and economic changes. Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15). ###
07.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Budget Committee, today introduced two amendments to the budget proposed by House Republicans earlier this week. The first of Congressman Boyle’s amendments would prevent Congress from raising taxes on low-income and middle-class families, including reductions in refundable tax credits. The second amendment would prevent Congress from making any cuts to Social Security benefits, now or in the future. “The amendments I introduced today would protect working-class families from some of the most dangerous aspects of this disastrous budget,” said Congressman Boyle. “At a time when my Republican colleagues are fixated on cutting taxes for millionaires and billionaires, I will continue fighting to create new jobs and support hard-working communities.” Congressman Boyle has spoken out strongly against the House Republican budget and previously against President Trump’s budget proposal, both of which would sharply reduce funding for transportation, healthcare services, foreign diplomacy, education, environmental protection and other critical needs. Cities like Philadelphia like Philadelphia stand to be harmed most. The House Republican budget paves the way for congressional Republicans to fast-track deep cuts to a wide range of programs that everyday Americans rely on, while funneling huge tax cuts to the wealthy. The budget Trump proposed would cut Medicaid in half, slash programs for people with disabilities, make it harder to pay for college, and decimate civil rights enforcement while advocating huge tax cuts for the wealthy and corporations. Congressman Boyle is fighting against both proposals at every opportunity. ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Budget Committee, issued the following statement following the release of the 2018 fiscal year budget proposal by Republican committee leaders: “Since taking over the White House and both houses in Congress at the beginning of 2017, the Republican party has failed to produce a single piece of legislation that would create jobs or help the working families of our nation. This budget proposal is yet one more example of tired Republican policy designed to help millionaires and billionaires at the expense of hard-working families and blue collar communities. The Republican budget’s proposed spending cuts to programs that help our most vulnerable citizens are completely unconscionable, and its gutting of critical safeguards that protect workers and consumers is downright dangerous in today’s economy. “As the co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, my priority is the well-being of middle class Americans, many of which are struggling to keep their heads above water,” said Congressman Boyle. “It’s clear to me that my Republican colleagues either don’t know what real economic hardship looks like, or they don’t care. To help protect those who may be most harmed by this bill, I plan to introduce two amendments in the Budget Committee tomorrow: one to prevent tax increases for low-income and middle-class families, and the other to prevent cuts to Social Security benefits now or in the future. “Instead of giving tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, we should be investing in job-creating infrastructure and programs that build up our communities and create economic opportunity for all. I will not stop fighting for these ideals.” ###
07.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) made the following statement on the Air Force’s release of the final Request for Proposal (RPF) that provides for a fair and open competition to replace the aging UH-1N fleet of helicopters rather than sole-sourcing the contract without a competitive bid: “With today’s release of the final Request for Proposal, we can finally begin the process of replacing the UH-1N aircraft through fair and open competition. I commend and fully support the Air Force moving forward with replacing its fleet of UH-1N aircraft that help ensure the security of our land-based nuclear forces. Replacing these assets are long overdue and I look forward to working with the Air Force on this priority. Congress has repeatedly supported and directed a fair and open competition for the replacement of the UH-1N. Language contained in H.R. 2810, the National Defense Authorization Bill for Fiscal Year 2018, threatens to upend this fair, competitive and open process by pushing a sole-source contract at the taxpayer’s expense. While I did file an amendment on this matter, I have since withdrawn the amendment given that the Air Force has moved swiftly to replace the UH-1N fleet through an open and competitive process with the recent launch of the RFP. In 2016, I along with eleven other Members of Congress signed a letter in support of a UH-1N replacement competition, which was instrumental in moving the Air Force toward its current strategy. We must allow the Air Force to continue its competition to replace the UH-1N aircraft and accelerate its ability to field new aircraft without further delay. Taking any other path would further jeopardize this critical program.” The UH-1N replacement program is a priority for the Air Force and for many members of this Congress, House and Senate. The Air Force UH-1N Huey was accepted into service from 1968 to 1969. It primarily accomplish two vital national security missions: nuclear missile security and Continuity of Government. The fleet also supports five homeland security missions. Over a decade has passed since our Air Force identified the need to replace the aging UH-1N Huey fleet. On September 25, 2014, then Secretary of the Air Force Deborah James reported to Congress that “the ability of the UH–1N to accomplish these missions was evaluated in 2006, and the aircraft was found to be ‘not effective.’” ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) underscored his commitment to protecting the environment and health of his constituents with a series of proposed amendments to the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), on the House floor for votes this week. The NDAA establishes the Department of Defense budget for FY 2018. “Our military can have a real impact on our environment and public health – something which we have come to know the hard way in Montgomery and Bucks County,” said Congressman Boyle. “That’s why I’ve proposed a number of amendments that would set a precedent for environmental protection moving forward and address the military’s PFC drinking water contamination in my district in a way that ensures this will not happen again, anywhere.” The first of the three amendments would require the Secretary of Defense to work alongside the Environmental Protection Agency to establish strict nationwide regulations for perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), including perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS), under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Currently, only a voluntary EPA lifetime health advisory exists for these “contaminants of emerging concern.” The amendment is modelled off H.R. 3106, legislation Congressman Boyle recently reintroduced to mandate these stricter regulations. The bipartisan bill is cosponsored by Congressmen Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Paul Tonko (D-NY), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), and Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA). These contaminants are threatening the drinking water of communities surrounding Defense properties nationwide due to the use of Aqueous Film-Forming Foam (AFFF), a firefighting substance. One such impacted property is Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove in Horsham. Boyle and neighboring Republican Congressmen Patrick Meehan and Brian Fitzpatrick have been fighting for federal oversight, resources, and accountability since learning of the issue and the surrounding communities’ concerns last year. The second of Boyle’s proposed amendments would require that the Department of Defense report to Congress on its progress toward replacing AFFF firefighting foam with a safer, effective alternative that does not contain PFOA or PFOS. The third environmental protection amendment that Boyle will fight to add to the NDAA would formally state that reducing the nation’s dependency on fossil fuels is in the best interest of national security and the effectiveness of the Department of Defense. “We need to focus our priorities and come together to recognize the challenges and the possibilities ahead,” said Boyle in regards to the amendment. “Robust environmental protection and a sustainable energy policy are vital for a strong and prosperous America in the years to come.” ###
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – In a pointed response to President Trump’s statements from the G-20 summit earlier this week, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, today introduced legislation to prohibit the United States from collaborating with Russia on matters of cyber security. The legislation is cosponsored by Congressmen Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) and Ted Lieu (CA-33). Boyle also introduced a similar amendment to the National Defense Authorization bill, H.R. 2810, on the House floor this week for consideration. “When it comes to American security, we must be clear and unwavering,” Congressman Boyle said in a statement ahead of the introduction of H.R. 3191, the No Cyber Cooperation with Russia Act. “There’s no room for reckless comments or actions that threaten our democracy and alienate our true allies. The President’s comments are indicative of the lack of seriousness he is giving this issue, and just the latest example of him playing fast and loose with American foreign policy and our place in the world. This legislation will formalize our rejection of President Trump’s delusional plans and our shared commitment to keeping our nation safe from foreign aggressors like Russia. Frankly, I am appalled that this legislation is necessary.” After the President tweeted Sunday about plans to form an “impenetrable Cyber Security unit” with Vladimir Putin, Congressman Boyle announced his intention to bring the issue before Congress in order to prevent such coordination. A chorus of bipartisan voices from across the country joined him in condemning the President’s plan as a serious threat to American security. “You don’t need to be a computer science major to know that sharing cyber intelligence with the top perpetrator of cyber attacks weakens U.S. national security,” said Rep. Lieu. “When the Russians get their hands on cyber intelligence, they exploit it – as they did last month with the NotPetya malware attack targeting Ukraine and the West. It is a sad state of affairs when Congress needs to prohibit this type of information sharing with an adversary, but since we apparently do, I am proud to introduce the No Cyber Cooperation with Russia Act with my friends Brendan Boyle and Ruben Gallego. I urge my colleagues across the aisle to join us in sending a clear message that Congress will not stand for this proposal to undermine U.S. national security.” "President Trump has proposed plenty of dumb ideas in his first six months in office, but a cybersecurity partnership with Russia might be the very worst," said Rep. Gallego. "Simply put, we would be inviting the fox into the hen house. I'm proud to support legislation to block this initiative because America should be confronting Putin — not coddling him like President Trump has." H.R. 3191 would explicitly prevent the U.S. government from joining any type of partnership or working group with Russia that focuses on cyber issues. Hostile cyber offensives like the hacking of the 2016 U.S. presidential election have come to define Russia’s approach to foreign policy. Earlier this year, Congressman Boyle introduced H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act. In sharp contrast to President Trump’s proposed collaboration with Russia, H.R. 1997 would solidify U.S. cyber cooperation with our close ally Ukraine, which has been the target of significant Russian cyber attacks. “At this crucial time for our nation’s cyber defenses, we should be shoring up our relationships with countries like Ukraine who share our values, not opening the door to our most vile intruders,” stated Congressman Boyle. ###
07.09.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, made the following statement on his forthcoming legislation in response to President Trump's social media statement today that he would involve Russian President Vladimir Putin in a joint cyber security effort to protect U.S. elections: "President Trump's desire to enlist Vladimir Putin in a joint cyber security effort to 'protect our elections' defies any shred of basic human logic and common sense. Under no circumstances can we allow the Russian government to learn our strategy and techniques for defending our cyber security. This week during the legislative session, I will introduce standalone legislation to prohibit the United States from participating in any type of joint working group with Russia on cyber security efforts, and an amendment to the National Defense Authorization Act to prohibit such activities. Hiring Mr. Putin to protect our electoral process is like a homeowner hiring as a security guard the burglar that broke into her home." Congressman Boyle has already introduced legislation (H.R. 1997) to improve U.S. cyber cooperation with our close ally Ukraine, which has suffered crippling cyber attacks at the hands of Russia. ###
06.30.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and House Democratic Chairman, Congressman Joe Crowley (NY-14) today introduced legislation to require that all newly sworn-in U.S. citizens be uniformly provided voter registration forms at naturalization ceremonies, making it easier for them to exercise their core right as a citizen: the right to vote. Currently, only some state and local election officials provide such materials to newly sworn-in citizens. Congressman Boyle’s “Citizenship Empowerment Act” (H.R. 3113) would require officials to provide voter registration forms in the citizenship packets provided to all newly sworn-in U.S. citizens, and allow election officials to set up informational tables outside naturalization ceremonies. “The right to vote is the foundation of our democratic system. We should make it easier, not harder, for citizens to vote or register to vote whenever possible,” said Congressman Boyle. “We should do all we can to provide all citizens a fair opportunity to participate in our democracy – and in fact encourage them to do so – regardless of the location they happen to be naturalized as a U.S. citizen. The first step of a truly representative democracy is participation. I am proud to introduce this legislation with Joe to cap off Immigrant Heritage Month and commemorate July Fourth.” “We should do everything within our power to make it easier for Americans to vote, as that is the fundamental tool to ensuring a more perfect union,” said Chairman Crowley. “Newly sworn-in Americans have demonstrated their commitment and dedication to our country, and they are often eager to make their voices heard. Providing voter registration forms at naturalization ceremonies would go a long way into making that a reality. I applaud Congressman Boyle for his leadership on this important issue and hope my colleagues will be inspired by the Independence Day Holiday to support this legislation.” Crowley is the fourth-highest ranking member of House Democratic Leadership. The legislation is endorsed by Common Cause and the National Partnership for New Americans. “Many immigrants to the United States fought and died for the right to vote,” said Aaron Scherb, director of legislative affairs at Common Cause. “Ensuring that new American citizens can fully participate in our democracy is a common sense reform, and Common Cause commends Representative Boyle for introducing the Citizenship Empowerment Act.” Providing a new citizen with a voter registration form at a naturalization ceremony is currently allowed, and in fact conducted in some states, but it is not required by federal law. This is an obvious disparity, wherein one new U.S. citizen can be sworn-in at one location and immediately given the opportunity to register to vote, while another may have to jump through multiple hoops to track down the necessary paperwork. The idea for this legislation was first expressed to Congressman Boyle by local Philadelphia election official Lisa Deeley, who received the suggestion at a townhall-style community meeting. Congressman Boyle is the son of an Irish immigrant and has been an outspoken advocate for protecting and expanding voting rights, both in the Pennsylvania state legislature and the U.S. Congress. Boyle is also the founder and co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, formed in the wake of the 2016 election to hold President Trump accountable for his promises to working people and reconnect the Democratic party to working class voters. ###
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) today again introduced bipartisan legislation (H.R. 3106) to require the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set an enforceable, nationwide primary drinking water standard for PFCs (including PFOA & PFOS). Currently, the EPA sets voluntary advisory guidelines. Congressman Boyle feels the current approach doesn’t go far enough considering the growing science on the risks these chemicals present to our drinking water and the national scope of the problem. “All Americans deserve to have confidence in the safety of their drinking water, no matter what state they live in or what activities have taken place in their community, period,” said Congressman Boyle. “Every day we continue to learn more about the scope and seriousness of perfluorinated compounds across the country. It’s past time we address these contaminants with the seriousness they merit.” Congressman Boyle’s bill is co-sponsored by Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ-6), the lead Democrat on the powerful committee of jurisdiction, the Energy and Commerce Committee, as well as Rep. Paul Tonko (D-NY-20) and neighboring Republicans, Rep. Patrick Meehan (R-PA-07) and Rep. Brian Fitzpatrick (R-PA-08). Boyle’s bill is included in Pallone’s broader Safe Drinking Water Act modernization package, H.R. 1068, the Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 2017. H.R. 3106 is the product of ongoing efforts with federal officials in direct response to the water contamination issues experienced by communities surrounding the former Naval Air Warfare Center Warminster, former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove, and Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania. Congressman Boyle, along with neighboring Congressmen Meehan and Fitzpatrick, have tirelessly worked together to address this local issue in a bipartisan fashion since first becoming aware of the community’s concerns. The Congressmen are also working with military officials and other Members of Congress to address the issue nationwide through timely and thorough remediation, funding, study, and support for communities. ###
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) announced three grant awards totaling $664,167 by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that will advance Pennsylvania’s drinking water safety, assist superfund community cleanup efforts, and help to improve water pollution mitigation. “As a member of the House Budget Committee, I continue to fight the dangerous funding cuts proposed in President Trump’s budget – including a 31% cut to the EPA. These three grants are great examples of how important the EPA is to local communities,” said Congressman Boyle. “EPA funding is essential to local and state efforts to ensure the health and safety of our environment and, in turn, the prosperity of our communities. This affects us all.” Congressman Boyle has also introduced legislation to protect drinking water from perfluorinated compounds (PFCs including PFOA and PFOS). The following EPA grants were awarded in Pennsylvania: $568,867 to the PA Dept of Environmental Protection- Pennsylvania Public Water System Supervision This agreement provides support for and implementation of a public water system supervision program adequate to enforce the requirements of the Safe Drinking Water Act in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. $27,000 to the Darby Creek Valley Association- Technical Assistance Grant, Darby Creek Superfund Site This project will enable the recipient to receive technical assistance from one or more technical advisors to interpret and review technical information related to the Lower Darby Creek Superfund site. By interpreting, analyzing, and evaluating the information, the technical advisor(s) will aid the recipient in commenting more productively and effectively on remedial activities at the site. $68,300 to The Pennsylvania State University- Watershed Modeling Provides modeling support for the Chesapeake Bay Program (CBP) partnership to inform decision-making on the implementation of the most cost-effective, efficient, and targeted nutrient and sediment reduction actions. Objectives include developing a plan for the next generation CB Watershed Model; developing and refining Bay Watershed Model calibration, verification and uncertainty tools; developing Bay Watershed Model application and analysis; and carrying out team and work group support. ###
06.22.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) was proud to present The Congressional Award Gold Medal to 13 recipients (12 Montgomery County; 1 Philadelphia County) from his district in the U.S. Capitol today. The Congressional Award Gold Medal, awarded for outstanding civic volunteerism, is the highest honor awarded to youth ages 14-24 by the United States Congress. It is open to anyone regardless of ability or circumstance. Congressman Boyle personally presented these medals to each recipient in recognition of their initiative and achievements as young leaders in Pennsylvania’s 13th district. “It is important that we recognize outstanding young adults like these every chance we have. The great work they have done in our community is well-deserving of this prestigious award. This medal recognizes the value of goal setting, honoring commitments, and civic duty,” said Congressman Boyle. “Through their personal achievements, these medal recipients have proven themselves to be outstanding volunteers and exceptionally motivated young citizens. In challenging themselves to grow through service to others, they embody the true spirit of public service. I can’t commend them enough.” Earning the Congressional Gold Medal requires significant commitment. Each participant must spend two years or more completing at least 400 hours of community service, 200 hours of both personal development and physical fitness activities, and a four-night Expedition or Exploration. For this achievement, Gold Medalists are recognized at the U.S. Capitol by their Member of Congress with the presentation of The Congressional Award Gold Medal, which is struck by the United States Mint. Here is a full list of PA-13 Congressional Gold Medal awardees: 1. Elizabeth Belka (Glenside, PA) 2. Victoria Belka (Glenside, PA) 3. Noah Berkowitz (Huntingdon Valley, PA) 4. Seth Berkowitz (Huntingdon Valley, PA) 5. Lindsay Fullerton (Elkins Park, PA) 6. Samantha Gable (Rydal, PA) 7. Jasna Janikic (Jenkintown, PA) 8. Erin Markham (Glenside, PA) 9. Emily Matthews (Philadelphia, PA) 10. Swathi Prakash (Abington, PA) 11. Anthony Radcliffe (Glenside, PA) 12. Kristen Sparhawk (Rydal, PA) 13. Stephanie Waldstein (Rydal, PA) ###
06.14.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement today after House Majority Whip Steve Scalise, one current and one former congressional staff member, and two Capitol Police officers were injured in a shooting at a practice for the annual Congressional Baseball Game for charity this morning: “My prayers are with all of those injured in this senseless shooting today. It is horrifying to think that a person would target members of Congress practicing for a charity baseball game in a spirit of bipartisanship. I condemn the attack and repeat my unwavering position that violence is never the answer. “I also want to commend and thank the U.S. Capitol Police for their quick thinking and courageous actions this morning that saved lives and prevented a far worse outcome. As we move forward from this tragic event, I hope everyone in our country will take time today to reflect on how our shared identity as Americans far outweighs our political differences.” ###
06.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Patrick Meehan (PA-07) and Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) are requesting information from the Pentagon after news reports exposed that the dangers posed by firefighting foams used on military bases – including those in Bucks and Montgomery counties – were discussed and considered by industry professionals as early as 2001. The report also notes the existence of a Dept. of Defense letter “describing 3M's PFOS-based products as ‘persistent, bioaccumulating, and toxic’ and referenced ‘a March 16, 2001, meeting at DoD (Department of Defense) to discuss what actions they should take about the foams.” In a letter to Defense Sec. James Mattis, Boyle, Fitzpatrick and Meehan are asking for a copy of the 2001 DoD letter and additional information relating to PFCs from that time. “If these minutes accurately captured the content of the 2001 NFPA meeting, they show that DoD was aware of problems regarding the use of PFC-based firefighting foams long before any effort was made to discontinue their use or protect the public, in places like Horsham, Warminster, and Warrington, from further exposure,” the letter reads in part. “In response to the revelation of this information, we respectfully request a copy of the letter from the Undersecretary of Defense referenced in the minutes, any additional information from 2001 that explains DoD’s understanding of the ‘persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic’ nature of PFCs, and further details regarding the March 16, 2001 meeting at DoD related to PFCs.” The complete letter text is below. A signed copy is attached and can be found HERE Honorable James Mattis Secretary U.S. Department of Defense 1400 Defense Pentagon Washington, DC 20301-1400 Secretary Mattis, We are contacting you regarding the ongoing contamination of public and private drinking water wells near the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster, the former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base in Horsham, as well as the Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania. As you know, Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS) have been detected in public water systems above the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) established Lifetime Health Advisory levels. In response to this contamination, public and private drinking water wells around these military bases in Horsham, Warrington and Warminster have been shut down and many of our constituents have been forced to discontinue use of their private well and connect to public water sources. Through the investigative work of a local newspaper in our region, it has come to our attention that the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD) had information concerning the possible adverse environmental and health effects stemming from the use of firefighting foams on military bases, over a decade before the public was made aware of these concerns. According to minutes of a 2001 National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Foam Committee meeting, a letter written by the Undersecretary of Defense was read that described the fluorocarbon surfactants (PFCs) in the Aqueous Film-Forming Foam used by the military to fight certain classes of fires as ‘persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic.” Furthermore, these minutes describe a ‘March 16, 2001 meeting at DoD to discuss what actions they should take’ related to PFCs. Enclosed is a copy of the 2001 NFPA Foam Committee Meeting minutes referenced. If these minutes accurately captured the content of the 2001 NFPA meeting, they show that DoD was aware of problems regarding the use of PFC-based firefighting foams long before any effort was made to discontinue their use or protect the public, in places like Horsham, Warminster, and Warrington, from further exposure. In response to the revelation of this information, we respectfully request a copy of the letter from the Undersecretary of Defense referenced in the minutes, any additional information from 2001 that explains DoD’s understanding of the ‘persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic’ nature of PFCs, and further details regarding the March 16, 2001 meeting at DoD related to PFCs. Thank you for your time and attention to this important matter. Sincerely, ###
06.08.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding former FBI Director James Comey’s testimony before the Senate Intelligence Committee: “In his testimony, former FBI Director Jim Comey stated that President Trump asked on numerous occasions for his ‘loyalty’ and to ‘let go’ of the investigation into the President’s good friend and close advisor, Michael Flynn. When Comey refused, he was fired by President Trump. There is no other conclusion to draw other than that the President of the United States was attempting to obstruct an ongoing investigation: the definition of obstruction of justice.” ###
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement today after President Trump nominated former Assistant Attorney General Christopher Wray to replace James Comey as the next FBI Director: “Since the stunning firing of FBI Director Comey and subsequent contradictory statements from the Administration, I have renewed and repeated my calls for a special prosecutor and independent commission to investigate the connections between Trump and Russian officials and Russia’s meddling in our election. The appointment of a special prosecutor is a positive step – but it is far from a final destination. The American people deserve answers on this fundamental question of our democracy, and only an independent, bipartisan commission can provide a full and transparent accounting of the facts. “It is my hope that confirmation hearings demonstrate that Christopher Wray understands the importance of impartiality in this inquiry, in addition to the many other vital law enforcement and counter-terrorism responsibilities of the position. The FBI Director must have upmost integrity and remain independent of any political influence, especially this administration which misled the American people about the president’s attempt to influence former director Comey. In order for the American people to trust the independence of the FBI, Christopher Wray must finish Comey’s investigation with the utmost detail and transparency.” ###
06.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– This week, Congressman Boyle (PA-13), a founder and co-chair of the congressional Blue Collar Caucus, led a letter to Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross to demand transparency during the Trump Administration’s renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA). A more transparent renegotiation process would help our nation to avert the damage that unfettered free trade has done to American workers by instead preventing the interests of multinational corporations from taking precedence over our nation’s worker protections, environmental safeguards, and consumer safety laws. “Although President Trump promised to defend American workers from the worst aspects of globalization during his campaign, he has instead shown more sympathy for corporate interests since taking office. The renegotiation notice he sent to Congress was alarmingly vague, and inconsistent with the many promises he made in the past. American workers deserve better. As a founder of the Blue Collar Caucus, I will keep fighting for working families and holding the president and his administration accountable for the promises they’ve made to them.” Congressman Boyle is committed to making NAFTA and all trade deals more fair for American workers and businesses who have been struggling in the global economy, feeling the system is rigged against them. Congressman Boyle is fighting to make sure that our nation’s trade policy serves the best interests of American families by ensuring that we no longer allow American jobs to be offshored without penalty, American tax dollars to be stashed in overseas tax havens, and American laws to be undermined by foreign investors. The bipartisan letter is signed by Tom MacArthur (NJ-3), Keith Ellison (MN-5), Marcy Kaptur (OH-9), Rosa DeLauro (CT-3), Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC), Jim McGovern (MA-2), Chellie Pingree (ME-1), Barbara Lee (CA-13), Dan Lipinski (IL-3), Walter Jones (NC-3), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Betty McCollum (MN-4), Jacky Rosen (NV-3), John Katko (NY-24), and Mark Meadows (NC-11). The text of the letter is as follows: Dear Secretary Ross, We are encouraged to see the Trump Administration’s reexamining and possible renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) so that it better promotes American jobs and businesses. We believe that the success of any renegotiation will be defined by putting working families, American jobs, and healthy communities at the forefront of U.S. trade policy. In order to achieve this end, we respectfully urge you to have an open and transparent process for the American public during the renegotiation process. We have all learned through experience that creating an open, participatory process is the only way that the American public will have confidence in NAFTA renegotiations and other trade agreements moving forward. The NAFTA renegotiation process, and any other trade negotiation, must be transparent and involve broad stakeholder participation – unlike the opaque and interest group-dominated negotiations that produced NAFTA in the 1990’s. Prior to the launch of new negotiations, we encourage you to invite the public to help formulate American positions and comment on draft proposals. We would also encourage negotiated texts be made publicly available during negotiations with opportunity for comment after each negotiating round. We believe that the public will have more confidence in the trade policy-making process moving forward if business-as-usual tactics are rejected for goal-oriented objectives that provide a fair, open process to ensure that future trade agreements put American jobs, businesses, workers and their families first and foremost. We look forward to working with you in crafting trade agreements that benefit all Americans, and thank you for your consideration of this request. ###
06.01.2017	Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, issued the following statement after President Trump announced his intention to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Accord: “I am incredibly disappointed that President Trump is withdrawing our country from the Paris Climate Accord, the landmark voluntary agreement between 195 countries to collectively address the growing threat of global climate change. This decision erodes our alliances and international standing, makes us less safe, and puts us at an economic disadvantage as other nations develop the clean energy economy of the future. President Trump’s failure to capture the opportunities associated with leading the global effort against climate change demonstrates a lack of vision and a propensity to put politics above all else. “All Americans should be deeply concerned by the President's retreat from American leadership and ideals on the global stage, from climate change to human rights. This combined with the President's failure to fully support NATO, signals to the world that under his leadership our country is in a state of withdrawal. The United States, the leader in reaching the 2015 agreement, is the second highest emitter of greenhouse gases. Previously, only Syria and Nicaragua declined to join the agreement. I cannot believe that President Trump would choose to join these ranks with this historic mistake. Rather than ‘negotiating better deals’, the President is removing us from the bargaining table altogether.”
05.28.2017	Washington, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement on President Trump’s first trip abroad as president: “This trip made clear what we’ve known all along: that President Trump is out of his league when it comes to foreign policy, and playing fast and loose with some of our most important alliances. I am particularly troubled by President Trump’s remarks to our NATO allies, condescendingly lecturing experienced leaders and failing to reaffirm the United States’ pledge to common defense. It's no surprise important allies like German Chancellor Angela Merkel are declaring the United States is no longer a reliable partner on matters from counter terrorism to combating global climate change. "Meanwhile, multiple senior State Department positions remain vacant and now our foreign allies are reluctant to share intelligence with us after leaks by the president himself and his administration. With several major international crises looming, we cannot afford Trump’s inexperience, flubs, and foreign policy blunders.” ###
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Marc Veasey (TX-33), co-chairs of the Blue Collar Caucus, released the following statement today after President Trump unveiled his FY18 budget proposal: “This budget represents yet another betrayal by President Trump of the working families who trusted him to work on behalf of their interests. Instead of valuing the infrastructure, workforce development, and other economic investments that workers and manufacturers rely on for their livelihoods, Trump wants to cut at least $54 billion from these programs and, in many cases, eliminate them altogether. In addition to slashing essential safety nets that help working Americans when they are unemployed or underemployed, Trump’s budget disregards critical federal investments in research, energy, community development, and housing – which all directly create blue collar jobs and economic stability for the benefit of all. “President Trump repeatedly promised a trillion-dollar infrastructure program to the American people. Yet, his first direct action on infrastructure is to take 13 percent bite from the Department of Transportation, a total of $2.4 billion dollars. Either he intends to break his promise on rebuilding our roads and bridges, or he doesn’t know what he’s doing. Regardless, we cannot stand idly by as he plans to eliminate funding for long-distance trains, rural airports, TIGER grants, and other investments that create good jobs and promote safety and economic competitiveness. President Trump is showing us all that he can’t be trusted to follow through on the promises he has made time and time again to working Americans and industries.” The Blue Collar Caucus was formed to hold President Trump accountable for his promises to working people by fostering member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus focuses on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to reconnect the party to blue collar workers, and generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement.” Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), and Vicente Gonzalez (TX-15). ######
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the House Committee on the Budget, issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s FY2018 Budget: “As a member of the House Budget Committee and co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, I strongly oppose President Trump’s budget proposal, which is somehow even more cruel and reckless than the budget outline he released in March. Working Americans need a fair shot at economic stability. This budget demonstrates that Trump wants to abandon the federal government’s most basic obligations to middle class families, the poor, the sick, the young, and the disabled. From Meals on Wheels to the EPA and student debt relief, this heartless and short-sighted budget will unnecessarily expose more Americans to hardship by hobbling our national investments, pulling the rug out from beneath the most vulnerable among us. “President Trump’s budget would eviscerate Medicaid, SNAP, children’s health insurance, Social Security Disability Insurance, and other anti-poverty programs by a total of $1.7 trillion to pay for his desired tax cuts for the rich, which will cost anywhere between $3 and $7 trillion dollars, according to the conservative Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget. This budget is confirmation that Trump values handouts for the extremely rich over protecting the well-being and dignity of the millions of working Americans who are already struggling to make ends meet. “This budget undermines some of our most critical investments in infrastructure, education, job training, and research. It also guts important diplomatic investments overseas that bring peace and stability to our uncertain world and solidify our leadership in global affairs. At home and abroad, this budget is a giant step backward for American ideals. “I will do everything in my power to fight this budget. It is fundamentally bankrupt both in a moral and fiscal sense.” ###
05.17.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement regarding the Justice Department’s naming of a special prosecutor on the ongoing investigation into Russia’s interference in our election: “The appointment today of former FBI Director Robert Mueller as special prosecutor for the Russia investigation is a positive first step in the right direction. For several months, I have been calling for an independent prosecutor and independent commission to get to the bottom of this serious matter with impartiality. This decision by Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein – a native of my district- to bring in an independent, well-respected public servant from outside the Trump administration is a very positive first step.” said Congressman Boyle. “While the appointment of an independent counsel is a positive step, there is still an urgent need for a full, independent investigation into the Trump-Russia connection. The President has been caught trying to shut down the FBI’s investigation of his National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, firing the Director of the FBI for investigating his campaign’s ties to Russia, and jeopardizing the security of the American people by compromising highly-classified intelligence to the Russians,” Boyle added. Boyle has long been calling for a special prosecutor and independent commission on Trump's ties to Russia and Russian interference in the 2016 election. He also cosponsors H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, to create a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate foreign interference, specifically by Russia, in the 2016 U.S. elections and H. Res. 184, a resolution of inquiry directing the President and Attorney General to transmit to the House of Representatives within 14 days after adoption of this resolution copies of any document or other communication in their possession that refers or relates to the application of provisions regarding grounds for appointing a special counsel to any case involving the 2016 presidential election or any related matter. ###
05.10.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, released the following statement after the firing of FBI Director James Comey, reiterating his call for a special prosecutor and independent commission to investigate the Trump Administration's ties to Russia and Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election: "The stunning firing of FBI Director Comey demonstrates yet again why we must have a special prosecutor looking into the connections between Trump and Russian officials and Russia's meddling in our election on his behalf, just like we had for Watergate. The timing of the firing, just as Comey sought more funding for his investigation into Trump's Russia ties and one day before Trump met with Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov in the Oval Office, and the letter used as justification raise more questions than answers. Hardly three months in office and Trump has now fired the three law enforcement officials who were looking into his Administration's shady dealings. I am again calling for a Special Prosecutor and formal independent investigation. This is a matter of country, not politics. This is about the integrity and impartiality of our democracy." Boyle has long been calling for a special prosecutor and independent commission on Trump's ties to Russia and Russian interference in the 2016 election. He also cosponsors H.R. 356, the Protecting Our Democracy Act, to create a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate foreign interference, specifically by Russia, in the 2016 U.S. elections and H. Res. 184, a resolution of inquiry directing the President and Attorney General to transmit to the House of Representatives within 14 days after adoption of this resolution copies of any document or other communication in their possession that refers or relates to the application of provisions regarding grounds for appointing a special counsel to any case involving the 2016 presidential election or any related matter. ###
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement after voting against the American Health Care Act, or “Trumpcare,” today when it passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 217-213: “Today’s vote by House Republicans will go down as a truly shameful moment in the history of our country. Today, House Republicans allowed insurers to turn higher profits on the sick and the poor. This iteration of Trumpcare now allows insurers to charge sky high premiums to older American and Americans with pre-existing conditions, while gutting Medicaid, weakening Medicare, and stripping health care from 24 million Americans. “This reincarnated version of Trumpcare was even worse than the bill House Republicans walked back on March 24. To appease their most extreme wing, they made coverage for pre-existing conditions optional for states while at the same time making repeated promises to the contrary to the American people. If enacted, this bill will drive up costs, eviscerate the essential health benefits and protections for pre-existing conditions protected by the Affordable Care Act for millions of Americans and eviscerate Medicaid, which covers our most vulnerable – all the while taxing older Americans and providing massive tax breaks to the super rich. “A majority of this country does not support the health care plan House Republicans passed today. This is why the bill is DOA in the Senate. Instead of hanging sick, old and poor Americans out to dry, as this bill would do, we should instead work together toward meaningful legislation that improves and builds upon the progress achieved under the Affordable Care Act. It is time for Republican leaders in Congress and President Trump to get serious about improving the lives of American families rather than dividing the country to serve their political interests.” ###
04.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Marc Veasey (TX-33), co-chairs of the Blue Collar Caucus, released the following statement after the Senate confirmed President Trump's nominee for Secretary of Labor, Alexander Acosta: "We were greatly relieved to see President Trump's previous nominee, Andy Puzder, withdraw from consideration after working Americans across the country rose in strong opposition to his atrocious anti-worker record. The Blue Collar Caucus remains fully committed to holding Alexander Acosta accountable to the core mission of the U.S. Department of Labor. The Department of Labor made tremendous strides for the American worker under President Obama; protecting the right to organize and demand fair pay, and ensuring workers have safe working conditions and access to a secure retirement. Today, the American worker is under constant attack in Republican-led state legislatures across the country and outside political forces work to undermine their ability to fight for better pay, benefits, and representation. President Trump is poised to carry that anti-worker campaign even further, as demonstrated by virtually every policy and nomination he has made so far. We have no reason to expect that Acosta will stand up against President Trump and question his many threats to dismantle these protections, but Trump made promises to the working class during his campaign and we will fight to hold him and Secretary Acosta to them. The Department of Labor's work is critical to the safety, prosperity, and productivity of millions of American workers in every industry. The Department needs a leader who shares these convictions, and possesses a demonstrated record of fighting for American workers. That is why the Blue Collar Caucus will remain vigilant to ensure that Acosta does not betray these values.” The Blue Collar Caucus was formed to foster member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus focuses on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement. Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Brendan Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01), and Derek Kilmer (WA-06). ###
04.25.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), joined by Reps. Ros-Lehtinen, Deutch, and Fitzpatrick, introduced legislation (H.Res. 276) expressing congressional support for states that require Holocaust awareness curricula, and hope that more states adopt legislation similar to that which has been enacted or introduced in a number of states, including Pennsylvania and Florida. The resolution is endorsed by AJC, the Anne Frank Center for Mutual Respect, B’nai B’rith International, HIAS, the Holocaust Awareness Institute, the Holocaust Awareness Museum and Education Center, the National Coalition Supporting Eurasian Jewry, Simon Wiesenthal Center, Southern Poverty Law Center, and the World Jewish Restitution Organization. Currently, eight states require public schools to develop curricula that include education on the atrocities of the Holocaust. The lawmakers believe that all states nationwide should follow this example and educate American children about the Holocaust, so that younger generations learn about the horrors of the Holocaust, the hatred that led to it, and how to avoid its repetition. This is also a time of heightened anti-Semitism worldwide, which threatens democratic principles. The districts represented by Boyle, Ros-Lehtinen, Deutch, and Fitzpatrick are home to many Holocaust survivors. “Before we started this fight, the number of Pennsylvania college students who’d attended public high schools and did not know basic details of the Holocaust was appalling,” said Congressman Boyle (D, PA-13). “Thanks to the tireless efforts of statewide activists, we were able to pass legislation in Pennsylvania that effectively mandated the education of the Shoah. Now it is time for the U.S. Congress to lend its support for the rest of the nation to keep up this momentum. We cannot learn from and correct our mistakes without an honest look at our history.” “Santayana’s old saying goes, ‘Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.’ Education and information are the most important weapons available in the fight to prevent anything similar to the Holocaust from happening again. I’m proud to join with a bipartisan group of leaders in advocating for access to this vital information and doing our part to ensure ‘Never Again,’” said Congressman Brian Fitzpatrick (R, PA-8). "I'm proud to introduce this important resolution along with my friends and colleagues, Brendan, Ted, and Brian, to ensure that children around the country learn about the horrors of the Holocaust. This genocidal act targeted millions of Jews and others in a murderous campaign of hatred that had never before been seen in world history. We must work to make sure that our nation will never forget this heinous act committed against innocent people by the Nazi regime," said Congresswoman Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R, FL-27). “I’m proud that my home state of Florida has long recognized the value of Holocaust education by mandating that all school districts incorporate a Holocaust curriculum,” said Congressman Deutch (D, FL-22). “Every year, we lose more Survivors that can recall firsthand the horrors of the Holocaust. If we want to keep alive the stories of those that survived one of history’s darkest moments and ensure that these heinous acts are never again repeated, Holocaust education must be taught in classrooms across the United States.” Rhonda Fink-Whitman, producer of “The Mandate Video” and author of 94 Maidens, said, “The clock is ticking and Holocaust survivors and WWII liberators won’t be able to share their firsthand accounts much longer. We have a duty to teach the lessons of the Holocaust lest we forget the past. Education is our best defense against racism, anti-Semitism, and future genocide. In 42 states, we are failing to teach our children the lessons of the Holocaust. Doesn’t this country deserve better? I commend this much-needed legislation.” Ms. Fink-Whitman recently discussed the legislation in Newsweek . Boyle, Ros-Lehtinen, Deutch, and Fitzpatrick hope that, with the introduction of this legislation, more attention will be paid to the importance of Holocaust education in public school curricula in order to better ensure that students today are better prepared to fight against bigotry and hateful rhetoric as they encounter it. Too many students are graduating high school with little exposure to Holocaust education and its universal relevance. This shared human experience is, of course, historically significant; but it is also our best defense against unchecked intolerance and bigotry. ####
04.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) recently introduced the Veterans Homelessness Contract Oversight Act, H.R. 1998, to bring Congressional oversight to federal grants that provide essential assistance to homeless veterans. The legislation requires that the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs notify Members of Congress and relevant committees of the expiration or termination of these grants, and submit a plan on how it will continue to provide the services provided to veterans under the grant, in order to prevent a drop-off in care upon the contract’s conclusion. “The City of Philadelphia, the Department of Veterans Affairs and many wonderful local organizations have done tremendous work in achieving a ‘functional zero’ for veterans homelessness in Philadelphia. The same praise goes to many other cities around the country. However,” continued Boyle, “we must ensure that these veterans remain off the streets, and do all we can to prevent them from falling through the cracks when a contract is transferred to the VA. I’ve introduced this legislation to help us do just that.” H.R. 1998 will provide transparency and enable Congressional oversight over HUD-VASH contracts. HUD-VASH contracts provide case management, supportive services and permanent housing support for chronically homeless veterans. H.R. 1998 will help make sure there is no lapse in care for veterans after a HUD-VASH contract ends. Boyle first became involved with this issue last year upon learning of the transfer of HUD-VASH supported cases from a local nonprofit to the Veterans Administration Regional Office in Philadelphia. ###
04.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) and Congressman Ruben Gallego (AZ-07) wrote to President Trump urging him to clarify whether it is now his Administration’s policy to seek the removal from power of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The letter comes after White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer compared Assad to Adolf Hitler on Tuesday and after senior advisors to President Trump offered a series of conflicting statements about this crucial aspect of American strategy in Syria over the weekend. “I am deeply troubled by the confusion presented publicly by President Trump and members of his administration as they struggle to explain recent military action against Syria. Action that was undertaken without any clear authorization from Congress or established policy," said Rep. Boyle, a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Our Constitution makes clear that these decisions must come before Congress. Congress must not abdicate this responsibility. We, the people's elected representatives, must finally debate and vote on this issue and the President must inform us of his intentions regarding foreign policy with the Assad regime," added Boyle. “The fact that high-ranking officials in the Trump administration are struggling to answer the most fundamental question about our objectives in Syria – whether the United States is actively pursuing regime change – leads inexorably to the conclusion that President Trump ordered the airstrikes without considering the potential consequences,” said Rep. Gallego. “Congress deserves a debate and a vote on authorizing further military action in Syria. But first, we need to know whether Trump intends to seek the removal of President Assad.” The full letter is available here. ###
04.06.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Brian K. Fitzpatrick (PA-8) introduced H.R. 1997, the Ukraine Cybersecurity Cooperation Act, legislation to encourage cooperation between the United States and Ukraine on matters of cybersecurity and require State Department reporting to Congress on best practices to protect against future cyber attacks. In recent years, Ukraine has been the target of an increasing number of cyber attacks that have infiltrated state institutions and critical infrastructure to the effect of undermining its democracy. “It is past time we step up to work with our ally Ukraine in furtherance of our mutual interest in cyber security, the modern battlefield,” said Congressman Boyle. “Ukraine is a frontline for nation state-directed cyber attacks, which are potential harbingers of attacks on the United States. Helping Ukraine strengthen its cyber defenses will not only protect Ukraine from future attacks, but it will also help the United States develop new and more effective technologies and strategies.” Continued Boyle, “As two members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who are proud to represent strong Ukrainian-American communities, I am pleased to work with my fellow Southeast Pennsylvania colleague to advance the strategic interests of both the United States and Ukraine on a bipartisan basis.” “Cybersecurity is a complex and serious national and economic security issue for any nation. For years, Ukraine has been under siege from nation-state cyber attacks that have sought to weaken its government and undermine hopes for an open and democratic society. The United States must play an important role in this fight. By not adequately responding and adapting to these cyber-threats in Eastern Europe, our nation is both letting down an ally as well as failing to take proactive steps to protect itself,” said Congressman Fitzpatrick. “Standing strong with our time-tested allies in freedom's cause is liberty's best defense. I’m proud to work with my colleague, Mr. Boyle, in encouraging cooperation between the United States and Ukraine on this front, and look forward to continuing to work with members of the Foreign Affairs Committee to keep our focus on this 21st century battle.” H.R. 1997 has been referred to the House Foreign Affairs Committee for consideration. Both Boyle and Fitzpatrick are members of the Committee. ###
04.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC–Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) joined a group of 90 Members of the House of Representatives in writing to President Trump, demanding that he fix the failed policies on trade with China. Throughout his campaign and his first months in office, President Trump pledged to the American people that he would correct our China trade policy and declared that this was essential to delivering on two other promises—to reduce our massive trade deficit and to ‘bring back’ American manufacturing jobs. However, the President has yet to act on these critical issues. “We have yet another broken promise from President Trump. Instead of putting his foot down to defend our workers and holding the Chinese government accountable for its unfair trade practices – which he repeatedly vowed he’d do starting day one as president – Trump now says he will be taking a ‘first step towards building constructive and results-orientated relations’ when he sits down with Xi Jinping at Mar-a-Lago tomorrow.” Boyle continued, “On the heels of two meager executive orders on trade and a weak plan for renegotiating NAFTA, it is becoming increasingly clear that Trump was never serious about actually fighting for working people. Workers across the country need a real champion, and not just somebody who plays one on TV.” Boyle is a co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, which was formed to foster member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus focuses on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement. The full letter is available here. ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) led 33 bipartisan Members of Congress in calling for increased funding for the Department of Justice’s Sexual Assault Kit Initiative. Developed and launched in 2015, the Initiative provides funding through a $41 million competitive grant program to help local jurisdictions reduce the backlog of rape kits that have never been submitted to a crime lab. “The amount of rape kits that have sat on a shelf, untested, unable to bring justice to victims of a horrendous crime is a tragedy and a national crisis,” said Boyle. “Victims of rape and sexual assault must relive their pain in order to have their DNA tested at a law enforcement agency. What many victims do not realize is that their DNA kits can sometimes lie in wait on a shelf for months, even years, before ever being sent to the appropriate crime labs to be tested. I believe Congress must provide law enforcement greater funding in order to reduce the backlog, prevent it from happening again, and bring justice to victims.” The goal of the Sexual Assault Kit Initiative is the creation of a coordinated community response that ensures just resolution to rape and sexual assault cases whenever possible through a victim-centered approach. Increased funding can build the capacities of jurisdictions to alleviate current backlogs and prevent conditions that lead to high backlogs in the future. Boyle has been committed to addressing this issue since his tenure as a Pennsylvania state representative where he led the effort to require timely testing of rape kits and reporting of backlogged kits to the state. The full text of Boyle’s letter can be found here. ###
04.04.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement today following reports that the Assad regime used chemical weapons against civilians: “If reports of a severe chemical weapons strike by the Syrian government against its own people in the Idlib province are true, they represent a heinous war crime that must not go unacknowledged. Even after six years of carnage, the depths of Assad's brutality remain shocking. Also troubling are reports of Secretary of State Tillerson ignoring questions this morning when asked about this latest massacre in Syria. We have a moral duty to address these war crimes, and in the least condemn them. Unfortunately, when it comes to human rights, it seems Donald Trump has relegated the United States to a backbench observer.” # # #
03.29.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Yesterday, the Congressional Blue Collar Caucus, co-chaired by Congressmen Marc Veasey (TX-33) and Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), hosted a robust and productive inaugural listening session featuring national and international labor leaders: Terry O’Sullivan, President of the Laborers’ International Union of North America, Bob Martinez, President of International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, and James Boland, President of the International Union of Bricklayers & Allied Craftworkers. Representatives from United Auto Workers, United Association of Plumbers, Fitters, Welders and Service Techs, International Union of Operating Engineers, United Steelworkers, and the Building Trades Council were also in attendance. The meeting touched on a variety of timely issues that can help lawmakers and labor leaders work together in the fight to secure healthcare, wage, and job security for all Americans, and reconnect blue collar workers to the Democratic Party. “We formed the Blue Collar Caucus to reassert Democrats’ historic role as the true champions of working people: to determine where and why we’ve become disconnected from these voters and correct this trend,” said Blue Collar Caucus co-chair Boyle. “To convincingly speak on behalf of workers, we must first listen to them, engage with them, and ultimately stand with them. We must earn their trust back through words and actions. We’re eager to get to work,” he added. “This listening session is the first of many efforts by the Blue Collar Caucus to engage with labor leaders and hear firsthand about the current challenges their membership face. From protecting hard earned pensions to ensuring that infrastructure and highway legislation accounts for the needs of blue collar Americans, members of the Blue Collar Caucus are committed to fighting for the best interests of the American worker.” said co-chair Marc Veasey. Several labor leaders in attendance also signaled their support for the Caucus, and their desire to help the Caucus serve the interests of their members and reconnect at the ballot box. Bob Martinez, President of International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers: “This was a productive meeting, a very serious discussion about some very serious issues confronting the working men and women in this country. I want to thank both Congressman Boyle and Congressman Veasey for bringing all of myself and our colleagues and more importantly the other members of Congress to the table to hear what we had to say. I believe this was a great day for workers. We got a chance to air out what our concerns are, and what affects working men and women in this country. I think it was a great meeting.” Terry O’Sullivan, President of the Laborers’ International Union of North America: “I thought it was excellent. I commend Congressman Boyle and Congressman Veasey for the vision and their courage for forming the Blue Collar Caucus. I represent blue collar workers, and it was refreshing to sit in a room with both those congressmen and the other congressional representatives talking about our issues of importance.” The Blue Collar Caucus was formed in the wake of the 2016 election to better understand and effectively address the increasing level of economic anxiety felt by workers in a wide variety of industries impacted by globalization, unfair trade deals, and declines in manufacturing. The Blue Collar Caucus is committed to holding the President accountable for his promises to working Americans. This meeting was the first of many listening sessions the Caucus intends to host. At the conclusion of the meeting, Caucus members were asked to return to their districts during the upcoming district work period and hold their own listening session at a local manufacturer, business or union hall to hear the concerns of blue collar stakeholders. Current members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Brendan Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01) ###
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed an Executive Order dismantling the Obama Administration’s actions to combat climate change: “Today’s Executive Order sends a dangerous signal to the world that the United States does not want to lead in one of the greatest fights of our time: combating global climate change. Just last month, during his first address to a Joint Session of Congress, President Trump promised he would ‘promote clean air and clean water.’ This Executive Order does the opposite. It threatens the environment, health, economic welfare and national security of future generations. The President ran on the promise of making ‘America globally competitive again.’ This action does the opposite, instead putting us at a competitive disadvantage in the clean energy economy of the future. Some of our biggest global competitors have already invested hundreds of billions of dollars in their clean energy programs, and plan to invest even more, hoping the United States will have to buy these technologies from them. Even companies like Google and Exxon Mobil recognize this reality. It is my great hope that today’s steps do not signal the Trump Administration’s intention to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, our best shot at addressing global climate change through comprehensive international cooperation before our window of opportunity closes.” Congressman Boyle is a member of the Bipartisan Climate Solutions Caucus and Bicameral Task Force on Climate Change. ###
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement after House Republicans decided not to go through with a vote on the American Health Care Act, or “TrumpCare”: “Republicans had seven years since the enactment of the Affordable Care Act to put forward a meaningful replacement. Rather than help us improve the ACA framework, they acted to sabotage it at every opportunity, all the while promising us ‘insurance for everybody’ that is ‘much less expensive’ and ‘much better,’ in the words of Donald Trump. Instead, Republicans broke their promises and rushed ahead with a bill to strip quality care away from tens of millions of Americans, cut three years off the Medicare Trust Fund, and rescind $880 billion in Medicaid funding from states – all the while providing billionaires and corporations a $600 billion tax giveaway as part of the largest transfer of wealth from working families to the rich in our nation’s history.” Boyle continued, “While I am relieved to see TrumpCare put aside, at least for now, I call upon my Republican colleagues to work with Democrats to stabilize our insurance industry while protecting Americans’ health care, rather than taking it away. It was frightening to see the Republican caucus’ willingness to make this bill more extreme and inhumane behind closed doors last night in a futile attempt to earn the support of the extreme fringe of their party by repealing the essential health benefits and important consumer protections gained under the ACA. I will continue to fight against any such proposal.” To view Congressman Boyle’s one minute floor remarks against the bill earlier today, please [click here]. To view Congressman Boyle’s op-ed on the Huffington Post, please [click here]. ###
03.23.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – The Congressional Blue Collar Caucus, co-chaired by Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA) and Marc Veasey (D-TX), stands in strong opposition to the federal budget proposed by President Trump, which guts key investments in America’s infrastructure and abandons working families. “The harsh consequences of President Trump’s budget will weigh most heavily on working Americans,” said Congressman Veasey. “Trump’s budget cuts programs that guarantee on-the-job safety and health protections for workers and eliminates job training programs that would boost wages and job opportunities across America. If President Trump is truly serious about putting ‘America First’ and getting our economy working for each and every one of us - not just the 1% - then he must offer a real budget that helps all Americans to work, save, and invest in themselves, their families, and their communities. Instead, this proposal tells our constituents: fend for yourself.” Congressman Boyle continued, “Working-class Americans are the real engine of our economy. Not only does this budget neglect them; it puts an even heavier burden on their already strained shoulders. Cruel austerity cuts are as wrong morally as they are economically. If you believe in American workers, then invest in them and their capabilities. Give them a fair shot at economic security. Invest in transportation, don’t diminish it. Invest in childcare, don’t defund it. Mr. Trump’s budget demonstrates a failure to follow through on his campaign promises to blue collar Americans.” ### The Blue Collar Caucus was formed to foster member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus focuses on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement. Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08), Seth Moulton (MA-06), and Carol Shea-Porter (NH-01).
03.21.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) statement on the Passing of Martin McGuinness: “It is with great sorrow that I learn of the passing of Martin McGuinness. This is a great loss for Northern Ireland and the cause of peace the world over," said Congressman Boyle. "One of the great achievements in the world in the last fifty years has been the Northern Ireland Peace Process. Simply put, without Martin McGuinness, peace would not have been achieved and sustained. I pay tribute to Martin’s dedication to securing peace on the island throughout his long career working alongside three First Ministers of Northern Ireland, and vow to honor his memory through my commitment to preserving that peace. I extend my condolences to the entire McGuinness family.” # # #
03.16.2017	Washington, DC – Today, during the House Budget Committee’s markup of the Republican health care proposal, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) fought to hold Republicans and President Trump accountable for their campaign promises—all of which appear to be broken since the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its nonpartisan analysis of the proposal. Boyle gave the following statement as he offered an amendment to require the Administration to certify this legislation fulfills the President’s promises to the American people before the legislation may go into effect: “The President promised that there would be no increase in the number of individuals without health insurance; that healthcare would become more affordable, with lower out-of-pocket-costs; and that the quality of health insurance would be better. Just this past January, President Trump said, ‘we’re going to have insurance for everybody,’ that ‘people can expect to have great health care,’ and that he is against the notion that ‘if you can’t pay for it, you don’t get it.’ He also promised not to cut Medicare or Medicaid. This bill breaks each of these promises. The American people deserve to know how our healthcare system could possibly be improved by taking insurance away from 24 million people, stripping $880 billion out of Medicaid over ten years, and shoveling $600 billion in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans (which is nearly twice as much as this bill provides in premium and cost-sharing assistance to Americans who need it). President Trump assured us: ‘We’re going to have insurance for everybody… much less expensive and much better.’ This motion simply requests a clear explanation as to why, under this bill, a typical 64 year old with an income of $26,500 would be forced to pay $14,600 in premiums by 2026, almost $13,000 more than what he or she pays now under Obamacare. How is that ‘less expensive and much better?’” The Committee passed the bill by a vote of 19-17 with all Democrats in opposition. Now, the bill heads to the floor for a vote in the full House of Representatives. Congressman Boyle and other Congressional Democrats have vowed to fight the bill because it covers fewer Americans for higher cost, undermines care for older and vulnerable Americans, and provides hundreds of billions in tax breaks to the wealthiest Americans, including health care CEOs. ###
03.16.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and the House Committee on the Budget, today issued the following statement on President Donald Trump’s FY2018 Budget: “The President’s 2018 budget proposal is a continuation of the broken promises and recklessness that has defined this administration since Day One. This so-called budget is a dangerous and unrealistic compilation of campaign promises that undermines our international standing and harms the most vulnerable and fragile in our country. It shifts economic burdens onto the shoulders of the middle class, eviscerates crucial services relied upon by working families and the needy, and guts community redevelopment aid, nutrition assistance, environmental protection and foreign diplomacy. If this budget were to become a reality, it would immediately threaten the health, safety and security of our nation. The President proposes we cut the State Department and foreign aid programs by 29 percent. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, I understand the consequences of such a course of action: a dangerous choice that would only serve to destabilize our current position of diplomatic strength and leadership around the world at a time of global instability. Our inexperienced, short-sighted President fails to realize these cuts would only weaken our international standing and strengthen our enemies. More than anything, this budget serves as hard evidence of the President’s broken promises to working class families. It is becoming clearer and clearer that the goal of this Administration is to help the wealthy – like the millionaires and billionaires in his cabinet and staying at his Mar a Lago resort – at the expense of working families, seniors, and other vulnerable Americans. As a Co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, I vow to fight this hypocrisy and tirelessly advocate for hardworking Americans in need of a fair chance at prosperity.” # # #
03.13.2017	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) today released the following statement about the Congressional Budget Office’s (CBO) official cost estimate for President Trump’s American Health Care Act: “The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office’s estimate that 24 million Americans would lose coverage over the next 10 years under the Republican health care proposal provides further evidence that this plan would be a disaster for our country. The proposal would also cut a whopping $880 billion in federal Medicaid funding, leaving our most vulnerable seniors, parents, children, and disabled Americans to suffer. Even before the CBO released its score, it was clear to all that Trumpcare would reduce access for those most in need while providing billions in tax breaks for the wealthy. Today, it is all the more clear that Trumpcare really is the Pay More for Less bill. We should be improving upon the ACA, not reversing our progress. Therefore, I will continue to fight against Trumpcare.” # # #
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle released the following statement after introducing bipartisan legislation prohibiting the slaughter of dogs and cats for human consumption in the United States. Joining Boyle in introducing the legislation were Representatives Alcee Hastings (D-FL), Vern Buchanan (R-FL), and Dave Trott (R-MI). “The fact that this legislation is even necessary today is astonishing. It is past time for us to outlaw such a cruel and barbaric practice once and for all. The Dog and Cat Meat Trade Prohibition Act of 2017 will finally make it illegal to slaughter animals most of us think of as family members. It is my hope that, with the passage of this bill, the United States will no longer be party to this disgusting practice,” said Congressman Boyle. “In much of the United States it is still legal to slaughter dogs and cats for the purpose of human consumption,” said Congressman Hastings. “It is long overdue for Congress to unify animal cruelty laws across our country to explicitly ban the killing and consumption of these animals. I am pleased to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to end this cruel and inhumane practice.” “Dogs and cats provide companionship to millions of Americans and should not be slaughtered and sold as food,” said Congressman Buchanan. “This bill will update our animal cruelty laws to provide important protections to America’s most popular pets.” “As a proud dog owner, I understand what an important part of our families our four-legged friends are and I believe that they should be treated with the utmost respect. I am proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to stand strong against the dog and cat meat trade and advocate for the humane treatment of our beloved animals,” said Congressman Trott. # # #
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement on the House Republicans’ bill to replace the Affordable Care Act: “The health care proposal finally released by House Republicans last night and endorsed by President Trump today would increase costs and provide worse care for Americans. President Trump promised ‘insurance for everybody’ that would be ‘far less expensive and far better.’ However, the legislation his party finally unveiled, after seven years of claiming they had a perfect replacement ready to go, would leave millions without coverage and force Americans to pay more for less.” Boyle continued, “As a co-chair of the Blue Collar Caucus, I am particularly incensed that Republicans used this bill as a means to dump huge health costs on working families while at the same time handing the 400 wealthiest families in America a tax break worth $7 million a year. This bill would be one of the largest transfers in wealth from low and middle income families to the wealthiest in recent memory.” Under the Republican plan, working families could see their premiums and deductibles increase by hundreds to thousands of dollars, and older Americans would be forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for health coverage. The GOP bill also shortens the life of the Medicare Trust Fund and shifts an estimated $370 billion in Medicaid costs to states over the next ten years, effectively ending the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion for 11 million people while also harming tens of millions of additional seniors, people with disabilities, and children and parents who rely on Medicaid today. The bill also defunds Planned Parenthood, which provides essential health care and prevention services to millions of women nationwide. A video of Congressman Boyle’s Tuesday night floor speech about the House Republican ACA proposal can be found here. ###
03.02.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement amid reports that Attorney General Jeff Sessions denied under oath during his confirmation hearings having contacts with Russian officials during the 2016 campaign: “From day one of these startling revelations about Russia meddling in our election, I have called for a formal independent investigation. Democrats have been working hard to get to the bottom of what happened. Thus far, Republicans in Congress and the Trump Administration have evaded our calls for transparency and accountability. But this is a matter of country, not politics. These latest revelations about Attorney General Jeff Sessions should convince Republicans to join us as fellow Americans demanding a formal independent investigation into these issues,” said Congressman Boyle. “Moreover, Attorney General Sessions must resign,” added Boyle. “The Attorney General is the highest law enforcer in the land and should be beyond any suspicion of impropriety. This latest revelation that Sessions met with a Russian envoy during the campaign and lied about it under oath leaves a dark cloud over his office that will only grow bigger and darker the longer he stays in office.” Boyle continued, “The Acting Attorney General who replaces Sessions must appoint a Special Counsel to investigate how Russia influenced our democracy through cyberattacks, and ensure that those who perpetrated or facilitated these attacks are held publically accountable and legally responsible.” ###
02.28.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle released the following statement tonight after President Donald Trump’s address to a joint session of Congress: “Tonight, the President issued a worn and weary campaign stump speech instead of a realistic blueprint for moving our country forward. It is now clear this president is more interested in campaigning instead of doing the hard work of governing. The President took to the podium in front of Congress tonight without a single jobs bill or accomplishment to his name. The reality of the world the President lives in and the truth of his actions tell a very different tale: a story of broken promises to the American people. Forty days after his inauguration, President Trump and the Republican Congress still have not lifted a finger to create jobs or raise wages for hard-working Americans. Instead, the Trump Administration has: • Put Wall Street First – enabling Wall Street to prey on Americans’ retirement savings; • Moved to Make America Sick Again – declaring all-out war on Americans’ right to affordable health care; • Sown fear in America’s vulnerable communities – with a cruel, incompetent and unconstitutional executive agenda; • Allowed Russia’s grip on his Administration to endanger our security and our democracy. I remain optimistic regarding one small ray of hope for the American worker, a campaign promise I am fighting to hold the President to. I would be happy to work with the President to repair our roads, bridges, and highways. Yet, tonight, I am disappointed that he fails to realize this country needs investments in our drinking water infrastructure and mass transit systems, too. My newly formed Blue Collar Caucus will continue to give voice to the concerns of many workers across the nation as we now navigate this minefield of malfeasance into which the President now leads us. We will hold him accountable to working Americans as he caters to Wall Street and the wealthy. As a Democrat, I believe we must focus every day on job creation and growing paychecks – for everyone, everywhere in our country. Whether in Washington, DC or in my Pennsylvania district, I will never cease in that pursuit.” ###
02.27.2017	Philadelphia, PA– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) testified today before the Philadelphia City Council on the threats posed by Presdient Trump and Congressional Republicans to important federal funding in Philadelphia. During his nearly 90 minute testimony, Congressman Boyle sounded a warning siren about the potential consequences of the funding cuts promised by Republicans in Congress and President Trump. To view Congressman Boyle’s full tesitmony, click here. In his testimony Boyle made the following statements: “Republicans in Congress have long threatened to reduce our debt and deficit on the backs of working people by cutting the programs they reply upon. For the past six years we relied on Barrack Obama or a Democratic U.S. Senate to protect Medicaid, nutrition assistance, affordable housing, Pell grants and environmental protection from Republican attacks. Now, with Donald Trump in office vowing to rubber stamp many of the GOP’s most conservative proposals, Republicans have a real opportunity to put their money where their mouth is. Donald Trump’s first budget is expected this coming month. Although he promised to change Washington, all reports indicate he is taking his lead from House Republicans and the most conservative think tanks in Washington. Of course, since taking office last month he has already vowed to gut the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and withhold critical law enforcement and public safety funding from cities like Philadelphia. Lower and middle class folks, especially in poor cities like Philadelphia, stand to be the hardest hit; particularly the most vulnerable: the sick, the homeless, foster children, low-income mothers and children, victims of domestic violence. Cities and states – already overburdened – will be left to pick up the tab or suffer the consequences.” ###
02.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Marc Veasey (TX-33), co-chairs of the Blue Collar Caucus, released the following statement regarding the withdrawal of President Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Labor, Andy Puzder: “Andy Puzder was a profoundly unfit choice to run the Department of Labor. He is the living example of the fox guarding the hen house, and we applaud him for withdrawing his name from consideration. Puzder is a man who has made millions of dollars on the backs of underpaid, overworked, and exploited workers. He has kept his employees dependent on public assistance programs meant for those in the depths of poverty by denying them fair pay and benefits. Pudzer is a serial offender of minimum wage, overtime, wage theft, and even child labor laws. Given this track record, he absolutely could not have been trusted to expand opportunities, protect the livelihoods of all workers, or ensure that workplaces are safe, humane, and just for employees nationwide. Less than a month after his inauguration, it’s clear that President Trump has already discarded his promise to represent the 'forgotten men and women' of our nation. Puzder would have kept them forgotten, as well as forsaken, because he would have proudly had those workers replaced by robots who don’t have rights, safety, or dignity to protect. Our Blue Collar Caucus, a group of House Democrats committed to fighting for working class Americans in Congress and holding Mr. Trump accountable for his many campaign promises, vows to carefully oversee this Administration’s actions. The Secretary of Labor should not be fundamentally opposed to the mission of the Department he is charged to lead. Mr. Pudzer was a dangerous choice for the future of hardworking Americans, and we won’t expect better from the next nominee.” ### Current Members of the Blue Collar Caucus include: Brendan Boyle (PA-13) (Co-Chair), Marc Veasey (TX-33) (Co-Chair), Debbie Dingell (MI-12), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Dan Kildee (MI-05), Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Tim Ryan (OH-13), John Garamendi (CA-03), Louise Slaughter (NY-25), Matt Cartwright (PA-17), Bill Pascrell (NJ-09), Marcy Kaptur (OH-09), Mark Pocan (WI-02), Ruben Gallego (AZ-07), Dan Lipinski (IL-03), Kathy Castor (FL-14), Brian Higgins (NY-26), John Yarmuth (KY-03), Eric Swalwell (CA-15), Joe Courtney (CT-02), Alan Lowenthal (CA-47), Donald Norcross (NJ-01), Dina Titus (NV-01), Paul Tonko (NY-20), John Larson (CT-01), Chellie Pingree (ME-01), Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12), Luis Gutierrez (IL-04), Cheri Bustos (IL-17), J. Luis Correa (CA-46), Stephen F. Lynch (MA-08)
02.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and Brian Fitzpatrick (PA-08) introduced legislation this week to provide a boost of education aid for the children of fallen law enforcement and first responders who have died in the line of duty. The bipartisan Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act [H.R. 949] eliminates the expected family contribution used to determine Pell Grant eligibility for children of first responders who have died in the line of duty, providing eligible students the ability to receive up to the maximum Pell award each year. “As a member of the law enforcement community for nearly a decade and a half, I know firsthand the service and sacrifice of our nation’s first responders. While we can never repay those who laid down their lives in the line of duty, we can make it our priority to support their families and their children,” said Fitzpatrick. “This truly nonpartisan legislation would ease the financial burden on the families of our community’s fallen heroes. As such, it deserves swift consideration and passage; it’s the least we can do.” “We owe our fallen heroes and their families an eternal debt of gratitude. Easing the crushing burden of student loan debt for these families who have made the ultimate sacrifice is the least we can do,” said Boyle. “It is my hope that this legislation provides a needed boost to these deserving families when they need it most.” Pennsylvania Senators Bob Casey and Pat Toomey will introduce the Senate version of the bill. Last congress, the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act unanimously passed the Senate (H.R. 2350/S.1352). The Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act is endorsed by the Fraternal Order of Police, International Association of Fire Fighters, National Association of Police Organizations, Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, Major Cities of Chiefs of Police, Major Cities Chiefs Association, Major County Sheriffs’ Association, National Narcotic Officers’ Associations’ Coalition, and Sergeants Benevolent Association NYPD. What they’re saying about the bill: • Fraternal Order of Police: “In 2016, 140 law enforcement officers lost their lives in the United States. That’s 140 officers who will never be able to see their families again. While no amount of financial assistance can replace a loved one, providing children of fallen officers with Federal Pell Grants for their college education is a noble act.” -Chuck Canterbury, National President • International Association of Firefighters: “On behalf of the nation’s 300,000 professional firefighters and emergency medical responders, I support the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act. The IAFF has long recognized the tremendous financial hardships that the families of our nation’s fallen firefighters and emergency medical responders endure. While we are never able to bring back the fallen, we may take steps to assist the survivors as they journey through life without their loved one. A step in the right direction is to relieve the surviving family of the heavy financial contributions associated with qualifying for Pell Grants to provide higher education for the children of our fallen heroes. While the debt owed to the surviving family will never be fully repaid, I am certain that this legislation will provide a welcome relief to the surviving family members of our fallen firefighters and emergency medical responders.” - Harold A. Schaitberger, General President • National Association of Police Organizations: “While we will never forget that these brave men and women made the ultimate sacrifice, we must also remember the immense burden that their families bear as a result of their loss. These families face financial difficulties that often result in their being unable to send their children to college. NAPO supports the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act because it would help take away a financial burden for these families and honor fallen officers by expanding access to higher education funding for their children.” - Mick McHale, President • Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association Foundation: “Any law enforcement officer that dies in the line of duty leaves behind a family that should be honored and cared for. The Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act‎ is a step toward our nation fulfilling its obligation to care for these families and the children left behind.” - Donald J. Mihalek, Executive Vice President • Major Cities Chiefs Association: “The men and women of American law enforcement are deeply grateful for the Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act. This meaningful legislation recognizes those on the front lines who have taken an oath to serve the American people. Police families will know that Congress has not forgotten their sacrifice, and all they have given to our country.” - Chief of Police J. Thomas Manger, President • Sergeants Benevolent Association of the New York City Police Department: “Our nation’s public safety officers do the jobs most of us can't or won't, day in and day out, and we willingly place ourselves in harm’s way without fanfare, recognition, or expectation of reward. When an officer makes the ultimate sacrifice while working to keep our communities safe, we have no higher obligation than to ensure that their families are provided for. This is why the SBA is grateful for the leadership of Representatives Fitzpatrick and Boyle to reintroduce the ‘Children of Fallen Heroes Scholarship Act’ and we look forward to working with them to see it enacted into law.”‎ - Ed Mullins, President ###
02.01.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, during a joint Subcommittee House Foreign Affairs hearing, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) continued to voice his concerns about the potential impact the Brexit referendum could have on the Good Friday Agreement. Boyle has been calling for congressional hearings on the issue since March 2016, and voicing his concerns about the potential detrimental impacts of Brexit on the historic peace agreement. Last week, Boyle sent President Donald Trump a letter reinforcing his concerns prior to the President’s meeting with British P.M. Theresa May. “As I have stated before and reiterated during today’s hearing, I will strongly oppose the re-establishment of a hard border between the six counties of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland,” said Boyle. “As a guarantor of the Good Friday Agreement, a historic diplomatic achievement, the United States must oppose any backsliding into the bad old days of border checkpoints.” During the hearing, Congressman Boyle questioned Daniel S. Hamilton, PhD, the Executive Director of the Center for Transatlantic Relations at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced and International Studies, about the possibility that the Brexit referendum could lead to the re-establishment of a hard border between the six counties of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. ###
01.31.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) has vowed to fight President Donald Trump’s Executive Order banning travel from Muslim countries and suspending the refugee resettlement program. He joined more than 160 House Democrats introducing legislation to defund and rescind the Executive Order, protested in front of the U.S. Supreme Court with House and Senate Democrats, and spoke out on the floor of the House today. On Sunday, he was briefed by Kieran Sheridan, the Chief Operating Officer at the Philadelphia International Airport. “This Executive Order is un-American, bad policy, and it makes our country less safe,” said Congressman Boyle. “As a nation of immigrants, and the proud son of an Irish immigrant myself, we must strengthen our resolve to defeat terrorism while championing the ideals that make our country great, rather than target those fleeing violence and terror who have been thoroughly screened by our intelligence community for an average of 18-24 months,” continued Boyle. “Trump’s Order undermines our international standing and betrays our core values while boosting ISIS propaganda.” The SOLVE, or Statue of Liberty Values Act, was introduced following the profound confusion and fear resulting from President Trump’s Executive Order banning refugees and individuals from 7 majority Muslim countries. Over the weekend, Americans witnessed chaos at airports across the country as travelers, including Lawful Permanent Residents, children, and elderly persons were denied entry to the United States. A growing chorus of foreign policy experts has condemned Trump’s Muslim and refugee ban as disastrous for U.S. foreign policy and national security. ###
01.25.2017	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) sent the following letter to President Trump this week urging him to discuss the impact of Brexit on the Good Friday Agreement with British Prime Minister Theresa May during their meeting this week. A link to the letter can be found here and the entire text of that letter is also included below: Dear Mr. President: I write in regards to your upcoming meeting with British Prime Minister Theresa May. Obviously the two of you have no shortage of important issues to discuss, including future trade relations, the importance of NATO, the conflict in Syria and the global fight against terrorism. However, I strongly suggest that you also discuss the implications of Brexit not just on the United States, but also the Good Friday Agreement. Successive U.S. Administrations have viewed the agreement as the best framework for a lasting peace in Northern Ireland. The Brexit vote seriously jeopardizes this important accomplishment, and the stability of the region. After 30 years of political conflict, the Good Friday Agreement is one of the greatest diplomatic success stories of the 20th century. While problems still persist, Northern Ireland has made considerable progress in the years since “the Troubles” that took the lives of almost 3,500 people. As the son of an Irish immigrant and a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, the Friends of Ireland Caucus and the Congressional United Kingdom Caucus, I cannot overstate the important role the United States played in the peace process that brought about the Agreement and reconciliation that followed. It is imperative that your administration continue this important support and involvement, and advocate for maintaining the Agreement as the Prime Minister oversees the political transition ahead. Brexit has the potential to unravel the peace and stability finally achieved under the Good Friday Agreement unless the United Kingdom stands firm in protecting several important rights during the negotiation process with the European Union. Today, people travel freely between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland to work, shop and visit family and friends. Many cannot even tell where the border stands. Given the role immigration and open borders had in fueling the Brexit vote, there is a real concern that there may soon be a return to a hard border between the two nations; the United Kingdom’s only land border. This would entail signage, police presence, customs checks and visa requirements – a stark reminder of the Troubles that could reignite sectarian tensions and violence. Finally, I must also stress the importance of human rights and continued funding for the peace process. Prime Minister May has indicated her intention to withdraw the United Kingdom from the European Convention on Human Rights. It is essential that the United Kingdom remain committed to minority rights, a staple of the Good Friday Agreement. Additionally, the European Union is a major source of funding for peace-building in Northern Ireland. It is critical that the UK Treasury fill this upcoming void by guaranteeing payments for such projects. Mr. President, as a proud Irish-American that cares deeply about peace and stability in Northern Ireland and the commitment of the United States to the Good Friday Agreement, I respectfully request that you discuss these concerns with Prime Minister May and seek the commitment of the United Kingdom to these matters. I look forward to working with you toward this end., Sincerely, Brendan F. Boyle Member of Congress ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) introduced landmark legislation to prevent Members of Congress from personally asking for campaign contributions. The Stop Act, H.R. 528, would ensure that federal elected officials focus on serving their constituents rather than fundraising. “The past election made absolutely clear that the American people are sick and tired of business as usual in Washington,” said Congressman Boyle. “They want a government that works for them, not special interests. This is a simple, straightforward way to do exactly that. We will never make Washington work for the people until we fundamentally change the way we conduct our elections and reduce the influence of big money in politics.” This bipartisan bill, cosponsored by Democrat Richard Nolan of Minnesota and Republican Walter Jones of North Carolina, was featured on 60 Minutes last year. Congressman Boyle has long been a passionate advocate for the need to overhaul our campaign finance system, reduce the influence of money in politics, and publicly fund elections. He will also be reintroducing his Clean Money Act, H.R. 6449 from the 114th Congress, which was recently highlighted in The Philadelphia Citizen. ###
01.13.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) has been appointed to the House Budget Committee for the 115th Congress. “I am honored to be selected to serve on the House Budget Committee,” said Congressman Boyle. “A budget is a statement of values. This committee impacts individuals, families and businesses in every part of America. As a member I will fight to promote job growth, ensure fair wages, and allow all Americans the opportunity to improve the quality of life for themselves and their families." Boyle continued, "I will also use my position on this committee to protect important safety net programs like Social Security and Medicare from Republican attacks, and oppose detrimental cuts to the Affordable Care Act.” ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the House Oversight Committee, released the following statement regarding the recent allegations of Russian possession of incriminating material involving President-elect Donald Trump and his campaign’s coordination with Russian officials: “If true, the intelligence report outlining allegations of Russia’s possession of compromising personal and financial information about President-elect Donald Trump is beyond unsettling and sheds great light on Mr. Trump’s oddly sympathetic approach to Russia and its meddling in our election, as determined by our intelligence community. If substantiated or verified, I will call for a formal, bipartisan congressional investigation into these scandalous and disturbing allegations.” ###
01.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), a member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, released the following statement regarding the start of U.S. Senate confirmation hearings for former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson, President-elect Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State: “I have grave concerns about President-elect Trump’s nomination of Rex Tillerson as Secretary of State. Mr. Tillerson’s four decades at Exxon displayed a troubling track record of coziness with Russian President Vladimir Putin, cooperation with despots, defiance of State Department policy when it proved inconvenient to the company’s profits, and an irresponsible skepticism of climate change.” “The Secretary of State’s primary duty is to promote American interests and the advancement of democratic principles across the globe. Mr. Tillerson’s potentially deep international conflicts of interest may undermine his ability to pursue that singular mission. Our top diplomat must be absolutely independent of competing interests, not compromised by a long history of direct cooperation with President Putin and his state-owned oil firm. Particularly now, when our intelligence community has unequivocally found that Russia actively sought to interfere with our democratic process, we need a top diplomat who can – without any doubt – stand firm against our adversaries in defense of American citizens, institutions, and values.” “I also remain unconvinced by Mr. Tillerson’s stance toward climate change. It is incumbent upon the Secretary of State to recognize climate change as an international threat that does not observe borders. I call upon my colleagues in the Senate to determine if the nominee will honor the groundbreaking Paris Agreement on international cooperation achieved under the Obama administration.” “President-elect Trump is building his cabinet with an unprecedented number of billionaire board members. Rex Tillerson is perhaps the most entangled and conflicted of these nominees. His confirmation hearings must provide substantial insight into his vast business interests and how they will affect his work on behalf of the American people, should he be confirmed.” ###
01.10.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement regarding the start of U.S. Senate confirmation hearings for Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions, President-elect Trump’s nominee for United States Attorney General: “Equal treatment under the law is not a privilege our government confers at its discretion. It is a foundation of our Constitution.” Continued Boyle, “the Attorney General is given extraordinary power that affects the civil liberties and civil rights of every citizen. The next Attorney General will lead a department that, among other critical duties, represents the United States in virtually all legal matters and enforces a wide range of civil rights statutes – including such landmark laws as the Voting Rights Act and Americans with Disabilities Act – and oversees the Federal Bureau of Investigation. History will be watching the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Mr. Sessions.” ###
01.03.2017	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement today after being sworn in to a second term representing Pennsylvania’s Thirteenth Congressional District in the 115th Congress: “I am honored to have the opportunity to serve the people of Pennsylvania’s Thirteenth Congressional District for a second term in Congress. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to safeguard core democratic principles and find commonsense solutions to the most pressing challenges facing both the state of Pennsylvania and our nation. Through my newly formed Blue Collar Caucus, I will remain laser-focused on creating good-paying jobs and expanding economic opportunity so that hardworking families across our district have a fair shot at a better future. I will oppose any effort to undermine Medicare or Medicaid, and carefully scrutinize any Republican cuts to the Affordable Care Act. We must strengthen and improve the ACA rather than jeopardize the important protections and critical care the law provides to tens of millions of Americans. Thirteenth District residents deserve a Congress that is on their side, instead of Congressional gridlock and dysfunction, and they want both parties to work together to get things done on their behalf. Advocating for my constituents and delivering results to improve the quality of life for our communities is my top priority, and I look forward to continuing my unwavering commitment to all those who I am grateful to serve.” ###
12.01.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) and Marc Veasey (D-TX-33) announced the formation of the Blue Collar Caucus to focus Congressional efforts on alleviating the economic anxiety felt by working class Americans that was so pronounced in the 2016 election, and re-engage Democratic efforts to reach these voters. Discussing the aims of the caucus, Congressman Boyle said, “Too many Americans think the best days for their families are behind them. And they’ve lost faith in their elected leaders to stand up for their best interests, protect their rights, and promote their prosperity. We can and must do better.” Boyle continued, “The America I grew up in – and the one I still see today – is a forward-looking nation built by blue collar workers of all colors, crafts, and creeds. These workers literally built our nation. Now it is our duty in Washington to rebuild their trust in government by working for them.” Congressman Veasey said, “Every hardworking American should have the economic security to provide for their families. Congress has the responsibility to enact policies that ensure an equal opportunity for all American workers to climb the ladder of success.” Veasey reflected, “Through my monthly ‘Marc Means Business’ initiative where I work alongside constituents in both large and small businesses, I’ve learned that Americans want real action to create jobs, raise wages, and ensure that they can improve the quality of life for their families and for future generations. Our caucus will focus on exactly that.” The Blue Collar Caucus will foster member discussion and legislative ideas focused on addressing wage stagnation, job insecurity, trade, offshoring, and dwindling career opportunities for those in the manufacturing and building trades. The caucus will focus on bringing together a diverse array of Democratic members of the House of Representatives to generate solutions that will protect American workers from globalized competition, maintain the viability of domestic manufacturing, and help to cultivate innovative industries that can provide stable employment amid rapid technological advancement. ###
11.21.2016	Washington, DC– In his commitment to combat the recent inappropriate and unprecedented foreign influence on our presidential election, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) and 15 members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee requested an urgent hearing to examine reportedly deliberate attempts by foreign governments to influence the outcome of the 2016 election. In a letter sent to House Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Eliot Engel (D-NY), Congressman Brendan F. Boyle and his Democratic committee colleagues wrote, "We cannot ignore these facts merely because Election Day has come and gone. The Committee must understand and be prepared to counter what constitutes a potentially unprecedented intervention by a foreign government into U.S. elections." The letter was signed by Representatives Gerald E. Connolly, Brad Sherman, Gregory Meeks, Albio Sires, Ted Deutch, Brian Higgins, William R. Keating, David Cicilline, Ami Bera, Alan Lowenthal, Grace Meng, Lois Frankel, Joaquin Castro, Robin Kelly, and Karen Bass. ### To read the entire letter, click here
09.27.2016	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) recently introduced legislation (H.R. 6125) that would require the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set an enforceable, nationwide primary drinking water standard for PFCs (including PFOA & PFOS). Currently, the EPA sets voluntary advisory guidelines. Congressman Boyle feels the current approach is too weak considering the growing science on the risks these chemicals present to our drinking water and the national scope of the problem. “It is past time we address these contaminants with the seriousness they merit,” said Congressman Boyle. “Whether it’s PFCs in Horsham, Pennsylvania or lead in Flint, Michigan, when it comes to the safety of our drinking water, it’s time to get serious.” Congressman Boyle’s bill is part of a larger package of safe drinking water legislation supported by Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ-6), the lead Democrat on the powerful committee of jurisdiction, the House Energy and Commerce Committee. The package would modernize the Safe Drinking Water Act, fill funding voids and address modern threats to drinking water systems large and small across the country. “The crisis in Flint has highlighted the need for action, but water systems nationwide are in dire need of dramatic improvements,” Pallone, the top Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee, said in a statement. “This comprehensive legislation provides the tools and resources that state and local governments need to ensure the public is provided with clean, safe drinking water." Congressman Boyle’s legislation is the product of discussions with federal officials in direct response to the ongoing water contamination issues experienced by communities surrounding the former Naval Air Warfare Center Warminster, former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove, and Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania. Neighboring Congressmen Meehan (PA-7) and Fitzpatrick (PA-8) are original cosponsors of the bill. The three congressmen have tirelessly worked together to address these issues in a bipartisan fashion since becoming aware of the community’s health concerns. Also this week, Congressman Boyle is fighting to add an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act, ( H.R. 5303 ), to require the CDC’s Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) to conduct a study on the long term health effects of exposure to PFCs through water contamination around military installations like Willow Grove. He is pushing House leadership to allow a vote on the amendment on the House floor before final passage of H.R. 5303. ###
09.22.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Patrick Meehan (R-PA.) and Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA) met today with the U.S. Department of Defense’s (DOD) point-person for PFC water contamination, Maureen Sullivan, Director of Environmental Management for the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense Installations and Environment. Sullivan is overseeing the DOD’s response to PFC contamination from firefighting foams nationwide. The Congressmen discussed their recent requests made of the DOD regarding communities surrounding the former Naval Air Warfare Center Warminster, former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove, and Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania. The congressional trio is pushing the Navy and the Air National Guard to provide additional funding governing the remediation effort. Specific issues addressed include costs for additional filtration systems on public and private wells as needed, infrastructure improvements required to deliver clean, safe drinking water from nearby water authorities, and funding to offset water rate increases experienced by local customers. Rate hikes are attributed directly to costs incurred to mitigate the contamination and provide clean drinking water to residents in affected areas. All three congressmen feel it is the Navy’s responsibility to shoulder that financial burden, not the water utilities or their customers. In addition to costs of water purchases, the three Pennsylvania congressmen also demanded action by the Navy on recent requests they’ve made regarding funding of blood tests, health studies. Recently, Congressmen Boyle, Meehan and Fitzpatrick and Senators Casey and Toomey asked the Navy to provide health screenings for Horsham and Warminster residents. In response, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy Karnig Ohannessian explained that, after consultation with the CDC’s ATSDR, blood testing was not advisable in these communities. The Congressmen also hosted an August health expert panel discussion in Horsham. During the meeting, the congressmen also requested an update on the DOD’s plans for addressing firefighting foam contamination nationwide, as well as their legislation to clarify the DOD’s authority to fund blood testing and health studies in impacted communities like the ones they represent. ###
09.21.2016	Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) today announced a $750,000 U.S. Department of Education Grant for the School District of Philadelphia. “In our ever-changing technological landscape, students, parents and educators need access to the latest in educational technology. It is imperative that our students and parents stay compeititive and up-to-date in the digital education arena,” said Congressman Boyle. The Congressman is a strong supporter of the Innovative Approaches to Literacy Program and is constantly fighting to protect its annual funding. “Grants like this are essential to adequately supporting our educators and families.” The federal award, part of the Innovative Approaches to Literacy Program, will enable the School District to provide high-quality early literacy activities, both inside the classroom and at the local public library. These activities will incorporate print and online reading materials created for students in grades K-3, and provide critical opportunities for parent engagement in reading at schools and public libraries. The grant will also enable classroom teachers and public librarians to collaborate on literacy activities to ensure that the resources of the public library are in regular use by young students. Through the introduction of tablets, students and their families will be able to reserve books from any FLP branch, and even chat directly with a local librarian. ###
09.13.2016	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13), Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, today made the following statement regarding the announcement of a new 10-year Memorandum of Understanding between the United States and Israel: "This MOU is a tangible commitment that the United States will continue to stand with Israel. Every day Israel faces existential threats from around the globe and those that knock upon its borders. This MOU also reinforces our commitment to keeping Israel's security tantamount and its military advantage strong, vigorous and formidable."
09.09.2016	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement today in response to reports that North Korea has tested a nuclear device: "Today's actions involving the detonation of a nuclear warhead by North Korea are deeply troubling. Kim Jong-un's continued actions are clearly intended to provoke and destabilize that region of the world. This latest test is an escalation that sends a clear message that North Korea has no interest in being a responsible member of the international community. I support President Obama's declaration this morning that he will continue to work with the U.N. Security Council and international community to impose additional penalties and sanctions upon North Korea as a result of this and previous actions." ### Congressman Boyle is a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee.
08.03.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA.), Patrick Meehan (R-PA) and Michael Fitzpatrick (R-PA) recently sent a letter to the director of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Diseases Registry (ATSDR) seeking the health agency’s position on the Navy’s refusal to authorize blood testing for the communities surrounding the former Naval Air Warfare Center Warminster, former Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove, and Horsham Air Guard Station in Pennsylvania. The congressmen also asked the agency to conduct updated community health studies, and release recent toxicological studies on the human health impacts of exposure to Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS). Recently, Congressmen Boyle, Meehan and Fitzpatrick and Senators Casey and Toomey asked the Navy to provide health screenings for Horsham and Warminster residents. In response, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy Karnig Ohannessian explained that, after consultation with ATSDR, blood testing was not advisable in these communities. In this latest letter, the congressmen asked ATSDR to clarify its reasons for not recommending the blood tests, as well as under what circumstances ATSDR would recommend such testing and monitoring in the affected communities. The congressmen also pointed out the fact that the most recent ATSDR health assessment for the area was conducted in 2002, before the drinking water contamination became known. That study did not reference health risks associated with PFOA, PFOS, or other perfluorinated compounds. The lawmakers urged ATSDR to perform a new study as well as focused Health Consultations, and pointed out that nearly 70,000 Pennsylvanians may have been exposed to these contaminants through municipal and private drinking water in the Horsham, Warrington, and Warminster communities. Congressmen Boyle and Meehan will partner with the Horsham Township Council to co-host a Health Expert Panel Discussion on the latest studies pertaining to human exposure to PFOA and PFOS on August 29 at Hatboro Horsham High School. Representatives from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), ATSDR, Centers for Disease Control (CDC), Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), and Pennsylvania Department of Health have been invited and are expected to participate in the panel discussion. The public is invited to attend.
07.20.2016	(Montgomery County, PA) – Horsham Township Council, in partnership with U.S. Representatives Brendan Boyle (PA-13) and Patrick Meehan (PA-7), will host a panel discussion regarding the improvement of water quality in Horsham Township on Monday, August 29, 2016 at 6:30 p.m. at Hatboro-Horsham High School. Representatives from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), the Pennsylvania Department of Health and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry have been invited and are expected to participate in the panel. “As township residents ourselves, we understand and respect that many of our neighbors continue to be concerned about the safety of our water supply,” said Deborah Tustin, President, Horsham Township Council. “Our council shares an unwavering commitment to ensuring the safety of our residents, and we look forward to hosting representatives from multiple government agencies here in Horsham to address the health and safety of our community.” Reps. Boyle and Meehan were instrumental in working with Horsham Township to secure the attendance of government agencies as a part of their ongoing bipartisan work to resolve water quality concerns in the region. The panel discussion is open to all members of the public and designed to provide information to residents of Horsham, Warminster and Warrington townships, along with former military personnel and employees stationed at the Willow Grove and Johnsville naval air stations. “I appreciate the heightened scrutiny these agencies have dedicated to studying these contaminants, and I believe residents have a right to hear their latest findings directly from them. A growing body of studies links these contaminants to various health complications, some very serious, all worthy of study,” said Congressman Boyle. “We are fighting to ensure the federal government makes our communities whole in every sense, and to empower residents with the information they need to fully understand these issues and inform their healthcare decisions.” “Residents understandably have many questions and concerns about the safety of their drinking water and their possible past exposure to PFOA/PFOS compounds,” said Congressman Meehan. “This forum will be an opportunity for experts in the field to address some of these concerns and give area residents the information they need to know to make informed decisions.” All water provided by Horsham Water and Sewer Authority (HWSA) currently meets or exceeds all DEP and EPA drinking water quality standards, and all nine of the HWSA’s active wells show PFC levels significantly below the new EPA Lifetime Health Advisory. On June 27, Horsham Township Council and the Horsham Water and Sewer Authority led a joint meeting to finalize a short-term remediation plan for the township’s wells, with a goal of achieving a standard of water quality that far exceeds any other in the nation by the end of 2016. In March of this year, Boyle and Meehan sent a joint letter to the Navy demanding answers about the government’s knowledge of the water issues surrounding the former Naval Air Station Willow Grove and the Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster. In April of this year, Boyle and Meehan jointly demanded that the EPA release stricter lifetime health advisory standards for specific perfluorinated compounds (PFOS & PFOA), which it ultimately did in May. The lawmakers recently introduced legislation that authorizes the Department of Defense to fund subsidized health screenings for residents in communities affected by water contamination due to nearby active or former military installations. ####
07.07.2016	WASHINGTON – Congressmen Brendan Boyle (D-PA), Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Patrick Meehan (R-PA) today announced they would soon introduce legislation that authorizes the Department of Defense to fund subsidized health screenings for residents in communities affected by water contamination due to nearby active or former military installations. It’s the latest step the lawmakers have taken to aid residents of Horsham, Montgomery County after the presence PFOA and PFOS chemical compounds was discovered in several public and private water wells. The compounds’ presence is the result of their use in firefighting foam at the former Willow Grove Naval Air Station. Similar compounds have been found near the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster, Bucks County. Meehan and Boyle have been working for some time with the Department of Defense, the Defense Appropriations Committee and the House Armed Services Committee on drafting legislation to have the Department provide blood tests for residents. Existing law that does not explicitly authorize the Defense Department to provide tests to civilians has been an obstacle. “As the Horsham and Warminster communities deal with years – if not decades – of past exposure to these chemicals at the hands of our military,” said Congressman Boyle, “we must make sure the federal government makes our communities whole in every sense – from providing safe drinking water to empowering citizens with basic information regarding potential health impacts.” Boyle added, “Our communities are the first of many across the country to likely experience these issues and grapple with these serious questions. The Department of Defense must set the correct precedent by doing the right thing and providing health screenings in addition to funding water infrastructure improvements for our impacted communities. We have constituently asked them to do so. This legislation makes clear they have no excuse not to do so.” “Residents who for years have been drinking water contaminated with these compounds have a right to know the extent of their exposure,” said Congressman Meehan. “Health screenings are an effective way to help residents determine how much of these chemicals they’ve ingested. They will help residents and their doctors make more informed health decisions. And they will help the federal government determine what steps will need to be taken to do right by these communities.” “We need to change the law to explicitly authorize the Pentagon to pay for these kinds of health screenings. Hardworking middle class families and cash-strapped municipal governments should not have to bear the cost of these screenings on their own,” Meehan said. “The federal government caused this contamination, and the federal government has an obligation to make it right. If the Architect of the Capitol can provide tests to Members of Congress and staff, the Navy should be able to provide it to Pennsylvania families.” Free health screenings are currently being provided to Members of Congress and congressional staff after high levels of lead were recently detected in the water in the Cannon House Office Building. ###
07.05.2016	Washington, DC– This week, Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA) is proud to announce that his American Export Promotion Act (HR 2729) has been selected to be included in Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer’s “Make It In America” package of legislation to promote bottom-up economic growth in America. The bill would help the export capabilities of small and medium sized businesses, allowing them to better compete in the global economy. Whip Hoyer’s new Make It In America plan focuses on four areas of action: -Expanding entrepreneurship and innovation -Closing the skills gap -Building a 21st century infrastructure -Breaking down barriers to manufacturing. “We should be laser focused on supporting cost-effective, job-creating programs like this legislation,” said Congressman Boyle. “Our top priority must be creating American jobs and empowering U.S. manufacturers to access and compete in foreign markets. I am proud of the manufacturing base in my district, and understand the challenges presented by global competition.” Boyle continued, “We need to access growing consumer markets abroad in a way that also empowers American businesses and workers. We need to do all we can to empower them in that fight. This legislation does just that.” Congressman Boyle’s American Export Promotion Act is one of 82 bills and ideas selected by Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer as the best examples of how Congress should address these important “Make It In America” action areas to strengthen our economy. To view the list of bills, click here.
06.27.2016	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA) today called for U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) Director Daniel Ashe to end its “Pay-to-Play” Endangered Species Act (ESA) permitting scheme. Through this controversial and dangerous practice, FWS advises people or organizations to pay as little as $500 to unvetted—and often foreign—entities in exchange for FWS permits to engage in activities that harm or kill animals in ways prohibited by the ESA. This scheme has been developed and implemented by FWS staff without any oversight or authorization by Congress, and contrary to the conservation principles of the ESA. “This unauthorized loophole allows people to buy their way out of the species protections of the ESA and undermines our collective, global efforts to protect endangered and threatened animals from harm and abuse,” said Congressman Boyle. “It is especially irresponsible for FWS to steer donations to un-vetted foreign entities given the well-documented link between wildlife trafficking and terrorist activities.” Continued Boyle, “this is as much an issue of national security as it is of animal welfare.” The ESA states that no one may “harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect” species deemed threatened or endangered, which includes at-risk animals like lions, elephants, rhinoceroses, and chimpanzees. Potential exceptions may be granted when such activity may have direct benefit for the individual animal or the species in the wild. However, in order to allow trophy hunters, amusement parks, unaccredited exotic animal exhibitors and others to circumvent these restrictions and use animals in ways that do not benefit the species, FWS has unilaterally decided to direct permit applicants that they can show an “indirect benefit” to the animals they want to harm by giving negligible “enhancement” donations to charities of questionable legitimacy—including foreign entities in places known for corruption—with an alleged conservation mission. Information obtained by Congressman Boyle from FWS via the Congressional Research Service confirms that ESA permits are rarely given for their intended purpose of direct benefits to at-risk species, and instead virtually every one of the more than 1,300 ESA permits given out in the last five years involves this pay-to-play scheme. Further, FWS admits it does not check the legitimacy of the organizations, which are often foreign, to which applicants purport to send money, nor does it confirm whether any money is actually spent on the conservation activities outlined in the ESA application. Records reviewed during an ongoing investigation by Congressman Boyle—who serves on the powerful House Committees on Foreign Affairs and Oversight and Government Reform—show that pay-to-play has been used to obtain permits for the use of endangered elephants and tigers in abusive traveling exhibitions that have violated the Animal Welfare Act, to hunt and import the remains of endangered black rhinoceroses, and for invasive experiments on endangered monkeys. Congressman Boyle is also a cosponsor of the Global Anti-Poaching Act (HR 2494), a bipartisan bill to combat wildlife trafficking that passed the House last fall and is currently being considered in the Senate.
06.24.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA) released the following statement today regarding the Britain referendum on EU membership and participation: “I was profoundly disappointed to hear of the outcome of today’s national referendum where British voters decided to leave the European Union (EU). While I hoped for a different outcome, I respect the right of British voters to peacefully determine their future as it relates to Europe and the rest of the world, and look forward to maintaining the strong relationship that the United States and United Kingdom currently enjoy.” Continued Congressman Boyle, “At the same time, I do want to make clear that the United States will strongly oppose the re-establishment of a hard border between the six counties of Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland. The United States is one of the guarantors of the Good Friday Agreement and, as such, our policy will be to fight against any backsliding into the bad old days of border checkpoints.”
06.22.2016	Washington, DC– In the wake of the horrific act of hate and terror in Orlando last week, the deadliest mass shooting in American history, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) today joined House Democrats’ sit-in on the House Floor to demand that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans allow a vote on bipartisan legislation to address gun violence. “This is a moment of truth. Congress cannot hold another moment of silence for victims of gun violence – and we cannot leave Washington, D.C. – without taking action to prevent the next tragedy,” said Congressman Boyle. “Our sit-in represents a simple appeal to Speaker Ryan and House Republicans: let the People’s House vote on commonsense gun violence prevention legislation that is overwhelmingly supported by the American people.” House Democrats are calling on Speaker Ryan and House Republicans to allow an immediate vote on bipartisan, commonsense gun violence prevention legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands, with two bills: • The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background checks system; • The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to keep guns out of the hands of suspected terrorists. House Republicans have voted 13 times to block consideration of the bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ legislation. “The Republican House is now rushing toward yet another week away from Washington – without giving the American people a vote to confront the gun violence epidemic,” said Boyle. “I am proud to join my fellow House Democrats on the floor to demand that Republicans end their indefensible obstruction of commonsense gun legislation,” added Boyle. “We will not rest until Congress shows the courage to act to strengthen background checks and keep guns out of the hands of criminals and suspected terrorists. No Bill, No Break. ”
06.15.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congressmen Brendan F. Boyle (D/PA-13),Patrick Meehan (R/PA-07) and Mike Fitzpatrick (R/PA-08) today secured a commitment from the chairman of the House’s defense spending panel to work with the lawmakers and the state of Pennsylvania to address the need for health screenings in communities surrounding the former Naval Air Station-Joint Reserve Base at Willow Grove and the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster. Rep. Rodney Frelinghuysen (R/NJ-11), Chairman of the House Appropriations Committee’s Defense Subcommittee, pledged to work with the lawmakers and Pennsylvania’s government on the issue during debate on an annual defense spending bill. Frelinghuysen indicated that measures taken in Pennsylvania could be used as a national model for addressing similar groundwater contamination issues near former military installations. In addressing Meehan during the floor debate, Frelinghuysen said, “Our committee is certainly committed to working with him and thank him for his leadership and we’ll be working very closely with him and with the state of Pennsylvania to see what sort of partnerships we can put together to address this problem,” Frelinghuysen said. “What might be a success in Pennsylvania could look [to be used] across the nation for implementation as well.” “Make no mistake: the federal government is responsible for this water contamination,” said Congressman Meehan. “We owe it to the Pennsylvania families and communities affected to cover the cost of needed health screenings…The Navy deserves credit for being proactive on this issue. But we’ve held private companies responsible for industrial contamination of groundwater wells. We should hold the Navy to the same standard,” Meehan said. “I’m grateful for the Chairman’s commitment to addressing this issue and I’m grateful for the continued bipartisan work on it with my colleagues Brendan Boyle and Mike Fitzpatrick.” “Our community is seeking information regarding their years – decades – of past exposure to these chemicals at the hands of our military,” said Congressman Boyle. “We must help affected residents make informed health decisions…. The federal government must fulfil its obligation to these communities, and we all must pay closer attention to this growing issue,” said Boyle. “I appreciate the Chairman and Ranking Member’s commitment to working with us to push the DOD to fulfill its responsibilities.” "The Department of Defense has begun the process of checking whether chemical compounds like PFOS and PFOA may have contaminated groundwater surrounding more than 660 military sites across the nation, including confirmed contamination around the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster and former Willow Grove Naval Station in Horsham. In each of these instances, both public and private wells in my district have been impacted by contaminated groundwater – rightly concerning residents and local leaders," said Fitzpatrick. "Because of this immediate and widespread concern, it is only right that the Department of Defense increase efforts to offer health screenings in communities surrounding these formerly used defense sites. Congress must work together to reaffirm this government’s commitment to protecting the health and safety of its citizens." The lawmakers have worked closely together since the discovery of chemical compounds PFOA and PFOS in the groundwater surrounding the former military installations in Montgomery and Bucks Counties. ###
06.08.2016	Washington, D.C. – Pennsylvania lawmakers yesterday urged the Department of the Navy to provide health screenings and water filtration systems for residents of Horsham, Montgomery County and Warminster, Bucks County affected by the presences of PFOA and PFOS chemical compounds in drinking water. The compounds have been detected in public and private wells in communities surrounding the former Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster and the former Naval Air Station-Joint Reserve Base Willow Grove in Horsham. “We appreciate the efforts the Navy has undertaken to provide affected residents with bottled drinking water and support the cooperation that is taking place at the federal, state and township levels,” the lawmakers wrote. “But as a responsible party for the groundwater contamination, we believe the Navy has an obligation to take further steps to address ongoing health and safety concerns.” “We formally request that the Navy work with the Pennsylvania Department of Health to fund health screenings and blood tests for Horsham and Warminster residents to determine whether or not these chemicals have a presence in their bloodstreams,” the letter continues. “Further, the Navy should work with the Department to provide carbon filters for contaminated wells.” The letter was signed by Reps. Patrick Meehan (PA-07), Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-08) as well as Pennsylvania Senators Bob Casey and Patrick Toomey. The text of the lawmakers’ letter is below in its entirety. -- June 7, 2016 Mr. Gregory C. Preston Director Base Realignment and Closure Program Management Office East Department of the Navy 4911 South Broad Street Philadelphia, PA 19112-1303 Dear Mr. Preston, We write regarding the high levels of the toxic chemical compounds PFOS and PFOA found in public and private wells near former military facilities in Horsham and Warminster, Pennsylvania. The families we represent in Congress continue to have tremendous health concerns as a consequence of drinking water from contaminated wells. We appreciate the efforts the Navy has undertaken to provide affected residents with bottled drinking water and support the cooperation that is taking place at the federal, state and township levels. But as a responsible party for the groundwater contamination, we believe the Navy has an obligation to take further steps to address ongoing health and safety concerns. We formally request that the Navy work with the Pennsylvania Department of Health to fund health screenings and blood tests for Horsham and Warminster residents to determine whether or not these chemicals have a presence in their bloodstreams. Further, the Navy should work with the Department to provide carbon filters for contaminated wells. These measures have precedent. In Hoosick, NY an industrial plastics company was found responsible for the presence of PFOA in groundwater. The company worked with the New York State Department of Health to offer free blood screenings to affected residents to determine whether or not there were levels of PFOA in their bloodstreams. All told, 2,000 residents of Hoosick, NY took part in the free screenings and they should be receiving their results shortly. These residents will have the benefit of that information as they seek alternative drinking water options and possible health treatment. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is investigating PFOS and PFOA and whether they can cause cancer or related illnesses. Horsham and Warminster residents should not have to wait for that study to know whether and how PFOS and PFOA has affected them. The Navy should offer to fund health screenings so residents can make informed health decisions in a timely fashion. Thank you very much for your time and attention to our request. Sincerely, Patrick Meehan Member of Congress Brendan Boyle Member of Congress Mike Fitzpatrick Member of Congress Bob Casey United States Senator Patrick Toomey United States Senator ###
06.06.2016	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) today called for a formal congressional hearing to investigate threats related to groundwater contamination surrounding over 600 Department of Defense installations nationwide, including the vicinity around Horsham Air Guard Station in the 13th Congressional District which Congressman Boyle represents. Congressman Boyle is requesting a hearing to compel testimony from experts on perfluorinated compounds (PFOS & PFOA) as well as testimony from officials at the Dept. of Navy and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Congressman Boyle made this request in a letter delivered Monday to the chair and ranking member of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee, of which he is a member. “Concern among Horsham’s residents has significantly increased since the EPA tightened its health advisory guideline for these contaminants in our drinking water. A growing body of studies links these contaminants to various forms of cancer, thyroid disease and other health complications,” said Congressman Boyle. “While I appreciate the EPA’s heightened scrutiny of these contaminants and the Navy’s commitment to monitoring wells and taking implicated wells offline, I believe officials have thus far failed to present adequate information to the public regarding the latest science and known health risks posed to our community. That is why I am calling for a congressional hearing.” Congressman Boyle added, “The Department of Defense (DOD) has an annual budget of approximately 2.5 billion taxpayer dollars to remediate health and environmental threats such as those posed by PFOS and PFOA contamination for which it is responsible, in my district and nationwide. Since releasing its list of 664 sites where fire-fighting foams containing PFCs might have been deployed, the DOD has elected to use its environmental investigation and remediation budget to assess groundwater samples from affected sites and to begin voluntary remediation of these installations. However, despite the serious health risks posed by prolonged exposure to and accumulation of PFOS and PFOA in potable water sources on these sites, the response has lacked the urgency I believe is necessary to address this public health threat. These investigation and clean-up efforts are seriously undermined by a lack of urgency on the part of the DOD.” In March of this year, Congressman Boyle sent a joint letter to the Navy demanding answers about the government’s knowledge of the water issues surrounding the former Naval Air Station Willow Grove and the Naval Air Warfare Center in Warminster. In April of this year, Congressman Boyle and Congressman Patrick Meehan (PA-07) jointly demanded that the EPA release stricter lifetime health advisory standards for specific perfluorinated compounds (PFOS & PFOA), which it ultimately did in May of 2016. ###
05.25.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) today released the following statement regarding release of Ukranian Member of Parliament and Fighter Pilot Nadiya Savchenko: “I was pleased to hear the news of Nadiya Savchenko’s release. Her case deeply touched the Ukrainian community in my Congressional district who united to advocate for her release. Throughout her unjust imprisonment and trial, Savchenko has come to represent the determination and spirit of an independent Ukraine, free from interference and eager to embrace the will of its own people. She is now free to join her fellow Rada members to assist in shaping a new Ukraine. “I, along with my fellow members of the Congressional Ukraine Caucus, condemn Russia’s handling of Savchenko’s capture, trial and sentencing. Russian authorities repeatedly obstructed justice which she was due and limited press access which would have shed light on her situation. Once again, we call on Russian authorities to respect the rule of law and release all those held unlawfully in Russian custody.” ###
05.24.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressmen Brendan Boyle (PA-13) and Patrick Meehan (PA-07) today issued the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency released revised drinking water health advisories on the health risks of Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) and Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS). The EPA announced today that it was lowering the acceptable standard to a combined .07 parts per billion for the two compounds. The compounds have been discovered in public and private water wells surrounding former military installations in Montgomery and Bucks Counties. The previous limits, set in 2009, were 0.4 ppb for PFOA and 0.2 ppb for PFOS. “This is a step in the right direction,” said Congressmen Meehan and Boyle. “These lower levels take into account the most recent data to more accurately reflect the health risks associated with PFOA and PFOS in our drinking water. Residents with drinking water levels above this new standard deserve the same rights and protections as those whose water levels were above the old standard. We’re going keep fighting for these communities and conduct tough oversight to make sure that’s the case.” Meehan and Boyle have been seeking answers from the EPA and the Navy on behalf of residents of the Willow Grove and Warminster communities.
05.18.2016	WASHINGTON, DC– Today, Congressmen Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) and Mick Mulvaney (R-SC-05) led the planting of a ceremonial tree on the U.S. Capitol Grounds. The tree, an Irish Oak, was planted to mark the 100th anniversary of the Easter Rising, as well as to honor all Irish-Americans. In 1916, Irish Americans played a significant role in the Rising. The Easter 1916 Proclamation of the Irish Republic specifically states the Rising as “supported by her exiled children in America.” Commemorating the occassion, Rep. Boyle said, “As this tree grows into a proud and enduring symbol of Ireland’s struggle for liberty, we hope that it serves as a living reminder that our two nations took root with shared aspirations for freedom.” Rep. Mulvaney added, “Democrat, Republican, or Independent, we all appreciate and respect our Irish heritage and are proud to be a part of this historic event. There are only one to two trees planted each year, so it goes without saying this was a special and rare event.” In November of 2015, both Congressmen submitted a joint letter to the architect of the Capitol requesting approval to plant the tree from the Speaker of the House and the Chair of the Senate Rules Committee. That approval was granted. It is extremely rare to have a tree planted in honor of an event or a person from another country. Today’s ceremony was attended by both Congressmen Boyle and Mulvaney. Other distinguished guests included Ireland Sen. Mark Daly and Notre Dame University V.P., John Sturm. ###
04.13.2016	[WASHINGTON, D.C.] – As we mark Equal Pay Day today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) is fighting to do more to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men – including passage of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act. Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date that, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. “Equal Pay Day is a somber reminder of the intolerably wide wage gulf that still exists between men and women. This is not just a women’s issue – it affects every working family throughout our economy, top to bottom,” stated Congressman Boyle. According to the National Women’s Law Center, women nationwide and in Pennsylvania still earn only 79 cents on average for every dollar earned by men – despite the fact that the Equal Pay Act will mark its 53rd anniversary in June. A new study finds that women won’t see pay equity with men until 2059 based on the rate that the pay gap has been closing since 1960. “Today, women make up about half of the workforce. It is wrong that on average they are still being paid less than men,” said Congressman Boyle. “A woman deserves equal pay for equal work. While women’s role in our economy has changed dramatically, America’s workplaces have simply not kept up. This must change.” “I am a proud cosponsor, along with every other House Democrat, of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act, which is designed to help women finally achieve equal pay for equal work by strengthening and closing loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963,” Congressman Boyle added. The Paycheck Fairness Act is a central pillar of the House Democrats’ When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families. Among its many provisions, it prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers; requires employers to show that pay disparity is truly job-related, not based on gender; strengthens remedies for women experiencing pay discrimination; and empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills. Unfortunately, just since 2013, House Republicans have voted nine times to block the Paycheck Fairness Act from being considered on the House Floor. “This Equal Pay Day, I am calling on House Republicans to start working with Democrats to do something real about closing the wage gap – by allowing the House to consider the Paycheck Fairness Act,” Congressman Boyle concluded. “Equal pay is not simply a women’s issue – it is a family issue. We should not rest until we achieve true pay equity for women – ensuring that all American women in the workforce are receiving equal pay for equal work.” ###
02.17.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) spoke on the House Floor today to honor Sanford Harling III. The 12 year-old boy who died tragically after running into a burning house to rescue his bedridden father. Below is a transcript of his remarks and a link to the video: LINK TO VIDEO HERE: https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4580409/sanford-harling-honored-floor-us-house-representatives “Mr. Speaker I rise today in honor of Sanford Harling III, a widely-known and widely-loved young man from Norristown, Pennsylvania in my district, affectionately known as “Man Man. Sanford tragically died after he selflessly dove back into the flames of his burning home to rescue his father, who had been bedridden while recovering from hip surgery. Unbeknownst to Man Man, his father had already escaped through a second-story window. “Although this courageous 12-year-old never re-emerged from the smoldering ruins of his home, his memory now resonates well beyond his community thanks to his remarkable act of heroism. Although the honor and recognition that Sanford deserves cannot return him to the embrace of his family, perhaps his shining example will inspire other deeds of life-saving bravery and devotion. He will forever be remembered as a hero. I offer my deepest sympathies to the Harling family, and to everyone who knew and cherished this young man’s character.”
12.28.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Brendan Boyle (PA-13) released the following statement on the death of an American soldier and Montgomery County native in Afghanistan: “I was saddened today to hear that Staff Sergeant Peter Taub, a Wyncote, PA native, was among the six americans killed in an attack in Afghanistan earlier this week near Bagram Airfield. Staff Sgt. Taub was a truly dedicated soldier and public servant. We are grateful to him for giving the ultimate sacrifice in service of our nation. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife, daughter, family and fellow service members at this most difficult time."
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) voted with many colleagues in the House to adopt, by a vote of 316 to 113, the FY 2016 Omnibus Appropriations bill. This measure funds the government until October 2016. “Today I voted to avert a disastrous Republican government shutdown and to make vital investments in the future of America’s working families,” Congressman Boyle said. “The bill implements the Bipartisan Budget Agreement that was adopted by Congress in October. The bill is not perfect; it is a bipartisan compromise. It is not the bill I would have written, but it is huge victory for working families over the Republican Congress’s special interest priorities.” “In this Omnibus package, Democrats won enormous improvements over the destructive FY 2016 appropriations bills Republicans wrote earlier this year,” Congressman Boyle pointed out. “For most of this year, Republicans have been trying to make devastating cuts to our investments in the future of our hard-working American families – cuts that would kill jobs and weaken our economic growth. For example, the House GOP bill would have slashed education initiatives by $2.5 billion below 2015 and also cut HHS funding below the 2015 level. In stark contrast, this final bill makes strong investments in areas that will create jobs and grow the economy, such as renewable energy, education, research, and infrastructure.” “I am deeply disappointed that Republicans insisted on helping Big Oil in this vital package of legislation by including a provision to lift the crude oil export ban,” Mr. Boyle added. “However, in exchange for Republican’s desperation to lift the ban, Democrats were able to secure many environmental protections and other victories for America’s working families throughout the package. In addition to purging the bill of scores of Republican poison pill policy riders, Democrats extended wind and solar tax credits that will eliminate around ten times more carbon pollution than exporting our oil will add.” The bill’s investments in priorities include the following: • Renewable Energy: Provides a major boost to renewable energy by extending the wind Production Tax Credit for five years (through 2019), and extending the solar Investment Tax Credit for five years (through 2021), while phasing both credits down somewhat over time. Extending the solar tax credit is estimated to create 61,000 jobs in 2017 alone. It is also estimated that the wind industry will grow to over 100,000 jobs over four years with the renewed wind tax credit. • Energy Efficiency and Clean Energy R&D: Provides an 8 percent increase over 2015 for R&D activities in the pursuit of new clean energy and energy efficiency technologies. • Overall Education: The bill restores the $2.5 billion cut in education that the GOP had proposed and also makes critical additional investments of $1.4 billion above 2015, in such areas as Title I that serves 24 million at-risk students. • Early Learning: Investing in Head Start produces results – and this bill invests nearly $400 million more than the House GOP bill and nearly $600 million more than 2015 in this vital initiative. The bill also provides $250 million for Preschool Development Grants, assisting 18 states across the country. • Medical Research: Medical research at NIH has been underfunded for the last several years. This bill provides $900 million more than the House GOP bill and $2 billion more than 2015 for this life-saving research. • Infrastructure: The popular TIGER grants are being used across the country to repair infrastructure and contribute to economic growth. The House GOP bill had slashed TIGER grants by 80 percent, killing jobs, but this bill restores the funding to the 2015 level of $500 million. • Law Enforcement: The bill provides $187 million for COPS hiring grants, $7 million above the 2015 level and $187 million above the House GOP bill, which had eliminated the hiring grants. The bill also provides $80 million for the Community Policing Initiative, including $22.5 million for body-worn cameras and $15 million for Byrne Criminal Justice Innovation grants, an increase over the House bill. The measure also does not include numerous GOP ideological riders that would have had damaging impacts on America’s women, consumers, workers, and children. The damaging GOP “poison pill” riders that were removed from the final bill include: • GOP riders that would have limited women’s access to the full range of comprehensive health care services, including by defunding Planned Parenthood. • GOP riders that would have gutted the Dodd-Frank provisions that hold big Wall Street banks accountable. • GOP riders that would have undermined the Clean Water Act and the Clean Air Act, jeopardizing the health of our children and working families. • GOP riders that would have blocked moving forward on addressing climate change and reducing damaging carbon emissions. • GOP riders that would have blocked protections that allow workers to form unions and help them save for retirement. Finally, the Omnibus includes several other important provisions: • Reauthorizes the key James Zadroga 9/11 Health and Compensation Act, making the Health Program permanent and reauthorizing the Victims Compensation Fund for five years; • Delays the so-called “Cadillac” tax, a tax on employer-provided health plans worth over a certain threshold, for two years – from 2018 to 2020; • Includes the provisions of the Visa Waiver Program Improvement and Terrorist Travel Prevention Act, which addresses issues raised by the terrorist attacks in Paris with reforms to the program; and • Reauthorizes the Land and Conservation Fund, which is one of our country’s most successful outdoor recreation and conservation programs and which Republicans allowed to expire on September 30. “By passing this bill, Congress has ended the specter of a possible Republican government shutdown that the country has been facing all fall,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “I hope that the Republicans will now abandon their practice of creating one manufactured crisis after another and join Democrats in developing bipartisan legislation that creates jobs, strengthens the middle class, and enhances our national security. The enactment of this bill today can be one step in moving the country forward.”
12.17.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) was proud to see the U.S. House of Representatives pass bipartisan, common-sense legislation that he introduced with Congressman Darrell Issa (R-CA-49) to waive passport fees for first responders traveling abroad to help in disaster areas. The legislation passed by a vote of 421 to 2, and will now be referred to the Senate for consideration. He also delivered remarks on the House floor in support of his legislation. Here is a link to video to the Congressman’s floor speech:https://mms.tveyes.com/PlaybackPortal.aspx?SavedEditID=c39fb04d-5566-4b48-82e3-dd0d922b047e Here is a transcript of the Congressman’s statements on the floor: Congressman Boyle: Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise in support of this measure. And I yield myself as much time as I may consume. Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank Chairman Royce, Ranking Member Engel, my colleague and friend from California Mr. Issa, and my fellow Foreign Affairs committee colleagues for their unanimous support in helping our first responders answer the call of service when a natural disaster strikes abroad. Every year, Americans bravely go abroad to help victims of natural disasters in foreign lands, such as the 2010 earthquakes in Haiti, the 2008 cyclones in Yemen, and 2015 hurricane Patricia in Mexico, just to name a few. Earlier this year, the world was shocked by the images of Nepal’s 7.8 magnitude earthquake that killed over 8,600 people and injured over 16,800. The United States was one of the largest donors to the relief and rebuilding efforts in the wake of this catastrophe through charitable donations, DOD, contributions, and search and rescue operation and relief efforts. U.S. search and rescue teams searched for survivors trapped in debris. These first responders continuously put their lives on the line at home and abroad. Mr. Speaker, this is an example of American leadership. Their bravery and efforts do not go unnoticed. We should do all we can to make their endeavors easier. Unfortunately, American contractors and volunteers, despite being coordinated by USAID, are subject to passport fees at their own expense when attempting to travel abroad in response to these disasters. To alleviate this obstacle, H.R. 3750, the First Responders Passport Act would allow the Secretary of State to grant their passports free of charge. I am proud to have introduced this common-sense bill with my colleague, Mr. Issa from California, because contractors and volunteers deserve the same treatment as government employees when they are sent abroad to offer their service on behalf of the American people. Cultural diplomacy like the services of these brave men and women provide in the face of international disasters is critical to our international image and international relations. I ask that my colleagues support this bipartisan, common-sense legislation.
12.08.2015	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) entered the following statement on the record about humanitarian assistance for Ukraine: “Mr. Speaker, as a proud representative of a vibrant Ukrainian community in my district, I rise to echo the requests of an extremely important and time-sensitive meeting with the administration where the Ukrainian community pleaded for necessary humanitarian assistance for Ukraine. The global community continues to mourn the horrific terrorist attacks in Paris. These attacks remind us of the importance of our freedom and democracy in our turbulent world – these values must be actively safeguarded each day. Ukraine has been doing just that: fighting for its democracy and freedom each day – denouncing Russian authoritarianism and combating Putin's aggression. Ukrainians are on the ground battling Russian separatists and thugs attempting to steal their democratic freedoms and undermine their self-governance. As a result, Ukraine has suffered 7,883 deaths and 17,610 wounded citizens, according to OCHA’s latest report. Five million Ukrainians have been affected by Russia’s aggression. It is shocking that this number is hardly discussed. One million Ukrainians have fled Ukraine since 2014, and 1.5 million Ukrainians are considered Internally Displaced People. And these numbers continue to rise. Ukraine needs more humanitarian assistance, and they need it now. Winter is fast approaching. Time is running out for winterization. Temperatures will plummet to 0 degrees and below. Eastern Ukraine has already experienced its first snowfall. We must act before it is too late. Today, many Ukrainians have little to no access to humanitarian assistance because very few humanitarian partners have received authorization from the de facto authorities in Donetsk and Luhansk to operate. Restrictions on freedom of movement have resulted in civilians waiting 24 hours before they can cross checkpoints across the ceasefire line which will be impossible to do in the winter. Additionally, a recent assessment has discovered that 20% of Internally Displaced People reside in destroyed or damaged homes. These homes need rebuilding materials now as temperatures continue to drop. These crucial humanitarian supplies need to be airlifted to Ukraine, and the United States should expand its efforts in helping to provide these supplies. It is becoming ever more critical by the day. Let's bring more humanitarian assistance to our partner in democratic freedom, Ukraine, immediately – before the death toll increases any higher
12.07.2015	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) has introduced common-sense legislation to close a loophole in our national security laws that could facilitate a foreign terrorist’s entry into the United States with minimal screening. Specifically, H.R. 4173 would require that any foreign individual who has traveled to Iraq or Syria within the past 5 years may not participate in the expedited U.S. visa waiver program. Instead, under this legislation, any non-U.S. Citizen who has recently traveled to Iraq or Syria looking to come to the U.S. would have to apply for a regular visitor visa, which includes a detailed application, in-person interview at a U.S. embassy or consulate, and fingerprint scans before admittance into the country. “This is a reasonable step we all agree can and must be taken to secure our borders from foreign terrorists,” said Congressman Boyle. “We must do all we can to ensure that security failures of other countries or gaps in security intelligence sharing do not threaten our homeland.” Under the current visa waiver program, citizens from 38 countries, mainly in Europe, may enter the U.S. for 90 days without a visa and its accompanying review. This is genuine national security vulnerability, making us susceptible to foreign fighters able to obtain a visa in one of these 38 countries. According to a report from the International Centre for the Study of Radicalisation and Political Violence, there are now over 4,000 foreign terrorist fighters from Western Europe – double ICSR’s findings in December 2013. The U.S. Congress and Obama administration continue to evaluate our national security framework in light of the Paris terrorist attacks and other evolving threats. Last week, President Obama announced that his administration will work with Congress to enhance the visa waiver program in several areas. This includes measures like H.R. 4173 to improve our ability to identify individuals who may have traveled to conflict zones to train or fight with terrorist organizations, as well as increasing information sharing between our partners and Interpol, and improving security at foreign airports. Congressman Boyle believes elected officials should come together to address known vulnerabilities. As a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, he has closely studied and debated these issues since elected to office in January.
12.03.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) voted with 359 Democratic and Republican colleagues in the House to adopt the conference report on Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act -- a measure that reauthorizes highway, bridge, transportation safety, and public transit projects for the next five years. The measure provides $281 billion in guaranteed funding for these programs over these five years. The measure also reauthorizes the critically important Export-Import Bank for four years, which helps American workers and businesses compete in the global economy. “I am pleased to be voting for a long-term highway reauthorization bill today,” Congressman Boyle said. “For too long, Congress has passed short-term extension after short-term extension, leaving state and local governments in limbo and preventing many transportation projects from being built. By providing guaranteed funding for the next five years, this measure will allow critical infrastructure projects to go forward.” “However, although I am glad this is a long-term bill, I am disappointed that this measure does not provide the level of investment needed to repair and rebuild our aging system of roads and bridges. Although this bill is a first step, it doesn’t do nearly enough. Democrats will continue to fight for more robust funding for highways, bridges, and transit – in order to fully address the challenge of our crumbling infrastructure. A more robust infrastructure program would create millions of jobs and generate faster economic growth.” The conference report does include a number of key provisions, including: • Boosting commerce and strengthening our economic competitiveness by providing dedicated funding specifically for freight projects, including freight rail, for the first time. • Injecting $3.7 billion over five years into bus funding – a 75 percent increase over current levels. This will reduce traffic congestion, by providing more public transportation options. • Authorizing $10.2 billion for intercity passenger rail investment, including Amtrak, while providing $199 million in guaranteed funding to help commuter railroads implement Positive Train Control systems. • Increasing American manufacturing jobs by strengthening Buy America requirements. “I am also very pleased to be voting today to reauthorize the job-creating Export-Import Bank,” continued Congressman Boyle. “For more than eight decades, the Export-Import Bank has helped level the playing field for American workers and businesses, big and small, to compete in the global economy. The Bank has created and supported hundreds of thousands of jobs over the years, all at no cost to taxpayers.” “It has been five months since the GOP-controlled Congress allowed the charter for the Export-Import Bank to expire,” Rep. Boyle concluded. “That has been five months of lost economic opportunity. Reauthorizing the Bank is a key victory for hard-working American workers and businesses across the country.”
12.03.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined dozens of national elected, community, labor and faith leaders for a National Day of Action for Puerto Rico to urge Congress to pass legislation addressing the growing fiscal and humanitarian crisis. The Congressman is pleased to partner with Philadelphia City Councilwoman Maria Quiñones-Sánchez to highlight this very important issue. Councilwoman Quiñones-Sánchez lead a coalition from Pennsylvania to join in the call for action. “It is extremely important that we stand with Puerto Rico in restructuring its unsustainable debt burden,” said Congressman Boyle. “We also need to help them grow their economy so that Puerto Ricans can focus on the essential work of investing in a brighter economic future. The inequitable treatment by the federal government has constrained Puerto Rico’s ability to restructure its debt through an orderly court-supervised process. It is essential that Congress grants the government of Puerto Rico the legal authority to restructure the territory’s public debt.” Councilwoman Maria Quiñones Sánchez of Philadelphia stated that “a historic coalition of Puerto Rican leaders and allies have asked The President and Congress to provide the tools for Puerto Rico to recover from this crisis, which include; Allowing the government to file for Chapter 9 Bankruptcy to restructure its debt (An authority the island’s government had until 1984), Creating parody for the Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements under the Affordable Care Act, and extending the Earned Income Tax Credit and Child Income Tax Credit to the 3.5 Million U.S. citizens on the island.”
11.30.2015	Philadelphia, PA- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) joined the Pennsylvania Public Interest Research Group (PennPIRG) to highlight the presence of dangerous toys on store shelves this holiday shopping season. According to the Pennsylvania Public Interest Research Group Education Fund’s 30th annual Trouble in Toyland report, consumers must still be wary when shopping this year. The report reveals the results of laboratory testing on toys for toxic chemicals, including chromium and phthalates, both of which can have serious, adverse health impacts on a child’s development. The survey also found examples of toys that pose a choking hazard, extremely loud toys that can threaten children’s hearing, and powerful toy magnets that can cause serious injury if swallowed. “We should be able to trust that the toys we buy are safe. However, until that’s the case, toy buyers need to watch out for common hazards when shopping for toys,” said Stephanie Monahon, State Director of PennPIRG. For 30 years, the PennPIRG Trouble in Toyland report has offered safety guidelines for purchasing toys for small children, and provided examples of toys currently on store shelves that pose potential safety hazards. “As the world’s largest market for toys, we must demand safe products for our children. As the father of a beautiful one and a half year old daughter, I know first-hand how important it is to remain informed and pay close attention to everything in her life, including her toys,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13). “PennPIRG’s annual unsafe toy list is an essential resource for anyone with young children in their lives. I remain committed to working with PennPIRG and my colleagues in Congress to protect consumers; especially our most vulnerable.” Key findings from the report include: ● Toys with high levels of toxic substances are still on store shelves. o They found the Fun Bubbles jump rope from Dollar Tree which had 10 times the legal limit of the banned phthalate DEHP (tested at 10,000 ppm), and also had 190,000 ppm of the toxic phthalate DIBP which has not yet been banned. However, the CPSC has proposed a rule which has not been finalized that would add DIBP to the list of banned phthalates. o They also found high levels of the heavy metal chromium in the Slinky Jr. (over 23 times the limit) and Minions pencil case (11 times the limit) from Target, and Magnetic Numbers (over 6 times the limit) from Dollar Tree. o Positively, while the CPSC has recalled some toys for lead violations this year, our tests did not find any. They believe this is a sign of progress, but this does not mean that lead cannot be found in other toys. ● Despite a ban on small parts in toys for children under the age of three, they found toys available in stores that still pose choking hazards. They found a fairy wand from Dollar Tree that has small parts that easily break off, but was not labeled as a choking hazard. ● They found inadequate warning labels in the Disney Pixar Cars Riplash Racers and Disney Planes from Marshalls, G2 Air Mini Football and a Disney Finding Nemo Dory figurine from Five Below, and a Nickelodeon Mermaid Dora the Explorer from Target. These products may have labels suitable for foreign countries, but they were not sufficient to meet U.S. standards. ● Small balls pose a hazard for young children who are inclined to put objects in or near their mouths. They found Magic Towels packaged as a small baseball and a small football at Dollar Tree which did not have the appropriate small ball warning label. ● Balloons pose the most serious choking hazard to children in the U.S. All of the balloon packages they found did include the required warning label reading that children under eight can choke on balloons and balloon parts. However, they found three balloon sets from Party City which included a second, confusing label indicating that the products are for children ages three and older: the Balloon Animal Kit, Mega Value Pack 16 Latex Punch Balloons, and Mega Value Pack 12 Water Bomb Packs. ● They also found toys that are potentially harmful to children’s hearing. They found the Vtech Go! Go! Smart Wheels, Vtech Go! Go! Smart Animals, Vtech Spin & Learn Color Flashlight, Fisher Price Click n Learn Remote, and Leap Frog Fridge Phonics Magnetic Letter Set from Target that, while they don’t violate federal standards, were found to be extremely loud at the ear and at a distance. ● They continue to find small, powerful magnets that pose a dangerous threat to children if swallowed. They found Sizzlers noise magnets from Family Dollar, and Singing magnets from Dollar Tree that are “near-small-parts” which, while they don’t violate federal standards, are small enough to be swallowed and can cause severe internal damage. Over the past seven years, stronger rules have helped get some of the most dangerous toys and children’s products off the market. Rules put in place by the 2008 Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act tightened lead limits and phased out dangerous phthalates. Earlier this year, The CPSC implemented a ban on small, powerful toy magnets which is also an important step forward. However, not all toys comply with the law, and holes in the toy safety net remain. “Hazards from toys come in all forms, and parents must be vigilant when shopping for their children,” says Dr. Gary A. Emmett, Director of Hospital Pediatrics at Jefferson Hospital. “Doing a little research, buying age-appropriate gifts, and properly supervising children when playing can all go a long way towards eliminating the risk of injury and illness. It is especially important for children three and under to avoid toys with pieces small enough to end up in noses, ears or throats.” “Our leaders and consumer watchdogs need to do more to protect our youngest consumers from the hazards of unsafe toys – no child should ever be injured, get sick, or die from playing with a dangerous toy,” said Stephanie Monahon. “Also, the CPSC should finalize its rule to include other toxic phthalates like DIBP on its list of banned phthalates.” To download our full Trouble in Toyland report, click here or go to their website at www.pennpirgedfund.org. Parents can find our list of unsafe toys, as well as tips for safe toy shopping this holiday season, at toysafetytips.org.
11.06.2015	Washington, D.C. - Congressman Joe Pitts (R-PA) and Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA) have joined together to introduce the Fairness for Victims of Crime Act into the House. In June, Senator Pat Toomey (R-PA) introduced this legislation into the Senate, where it has 17 co-sponsors. If enacted, this legislation would establish a point of order to stop Congress from raiding the Crime Victims Fund. Congress created this fund in 1984 to direct penalties and fines collected from criminals to pay for programs to help victims of crimes. The Fund receives no taxpayer dollars. The fund disburses to States and to victims service groups (such as Child Advocacy Centers, domestic violence shelters, and rape crisis centers) to support victim compensation and assistance programs. Under federal law, money deposited into the Crime Victims Fund may only be used to assist crime victims. Since 2000, Congress has raided the fund for other purposes. For example, from fiscal year 2010 through fiscal year 2014, the Crime Victims Fund collected $12 billion, but gave crime victims only $3.6 billion (or 30%). Congress used the $8.4 billion difference. The legislation introduced by Toomey, Pitts, and Boyle, would stop Congress from raiding the fund again by creating a point of order against it. The bill further provides that, each year, Congress disburse the average of the past 3 years’ deposits into the Fund. This will increase payments to help victims from $745 million two years ago to $2.6 billion in this fiscal year. Funds for victim service groups (e.g., domestic violence shelters, child advocacy centers, rape crisis centers) will approximately quadruple. In Section 802 of the most recent Bipartisan Budget Act, Congress once again raided the fund of $1.5 billion. The fund is still able to carry out its functions, but this still shows how easily politicians in Congress can take money that is meant for victims and use it for their own purposes. “It is only fair that penalties taken from criminals should be used to help their victims,” said Representative Pitts. “This fund was meant to do just that, not to be used as a gimmick by politicians to grow the size of government. This bipartisan idea is another example of Pennsylvania common sense, and I am proud to stand with my colleagues to introduce it.” “The Crime Victims Fund is an important tool for supporting victims in a fair and fiscally responsible manner: dispersing funds collected from criminals directly to victims in need,” said Congressman Boyle. “It is unacceptable that we continue to divert these funds from their intended purpose. Fighting for these funds and securing other resources for the many non-profits and volunteer advocates working on behalf of victims of crime should be a bipartisan effort. I am proud to introduce this important legislation with my Pennsylvania colleagues on the other side of the aisle, and I look forward to working with them to empower and support victims of rape, domestic abuse, and other crimes.” “I appreciate Reps. Pitts and Boyle introducing commonsense legislation which, like mine, requires the Crime Victims Fund to disburse what it brings in each year back to crime victims,” concluded Senator Toomey. “That is what was intended when the fund was established in 1984. Under these proposals, groups in Pennsylvania and across the country that assist victims of child abuse, sexual assault, domestic violence, and other crimes will see available funds more than quadruple—rising from under $18 million in 2014 to $80 million in 2016. The budget deal’s misuse of monies from the Crime Victims Fund highlights why our legislation is needed more than ever. I am not going to stop fighting for its passage.”
11.06.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) submitted the following statement on the record on the anniversary of the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide: “As we near the anniversary of the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide of 1932-1933, I would like to extend my deepest sympathies to the victims, survivors and families of this tragedy.” “During this time, nearly 10 million Ukrainians were killed under the direction of Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin who ordered the borders of Ukraine sealed to prevent anyone from escaping the man-made starvation and prevent any international food aid from entering.” “Grain harvests were deliberately confiscated so millions of innocent men, women and children starved all to destroy the nationally conscious movement for independence.” “In 1985, the United States Commission on the Ukraine Famine formed to expand the world’s knowledge and understanding of the events of this genocide of 1932-1933. They found that the victims were “starved to death in a man-made famine” and that “Joseph Stalin and those around him committed genocide against Ukrainians in 1932-1933”.” “And so, today I stand here in solidarity with the Ukrainian people, to remember the suffering experienced under Stalin. I am a proud representative of Pennsylvania’s 13th District where I have many Ukrainian constituents whom I would like to specifically acknowledge.” “I commend the Congress when in 2006 legislation was enacted to authorize the construction of a memorial in the District of Columbia to honor the victims of the Ukrainian Famine-Genocide. Today, we can see the culmination of this effort with a meaningful memorial by Union Station that I visited earlier today.” “Unfortunately, today many people have never heard of Holodomor, despite the 10 million that perished. I call for more efforts to be made like that of the Commission to educate the public on this issue, so everyone understands the events of this genocide. We must learn our history so we do not repeat the mistakes of our past. We must ensure this never happens again – especially at a time where Russia continues to show aggression in Ukraine.”
11.05.2015	Congressman Brendan F. Boyle released the following statement regarding House passage of H.R.22, the DRIVE Act, a bipartisan bill providing $325 billion to reauthorize federal-aid highway and transit programs for six years. “I am proud to be a part of the bipartisan cooperation that went into passing a long-term highway-transit reauthorization bill, but there remains much more work to be done to improve the bill in House-Senate conference and put us on a path to fixing our long term transportation problems. The roads and bridges we commute on, on a daily basis, are crumbling. It is time to invest in American infrastructure and create good paying construction jobs for hardworking Americans in Pennsylvania. This is a matter of safety, efficiency, and economic growth. We can only go so far by funding these priorities with budget gimmicks.”
11.04.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) applauds the House passage of important legislation originating in the House Foreign Affairs Committee, of which he is a member. Congressman Boyle is a co-sponsor of each piece of legislation: H.R. 2494– Global Anti-Poaching Act: This legislation helps combat the poaching of elephants, rhinos and other endangered animals around the world. This bill elevates the seriousness of major wildlife trafficking offenses, putting wildlife crime on par legally with other forms of transnational organized crime and making enforcement of existing laws more likely and more effective. In recent years, poaching of these animals has reached epidemic proportions, driven by rising demand in certain Asian countries. Prices for ivory and rhino horn have increased dramatically, and as a result, terrorist organizations, rebel groups and other transnational criminal organizations have gotten into the wildlife trafficking business. H.R. 1853 – This legislation directs the President to develop a strategy to obtain observer status for Taiwan in the International Criminal Police Organization. INTERPOL was designed to promote the widest possible mutual assistance between all criminal police authorities. From 1964 until 1984, Taiwan enjoyed full membership in INTERPOL, but was later removed. Since 1984, Taiwan has relied on delayed, second-hand information about international criminals and global criminal activities, increasing its vulnerability to security threats. This legislation supports Taiwan’s efforts to gain observer status within INTERPOL, improving security for all parties involved. H. Res. 354 – This resolution expresses the sense of the House of Representatives regarding the safety and security of Jewish communities in Europe. It urges the United States Government to encourage European governments – especially their law enforcement agencies – to collaborate with Jewish communities on security and provide statistics on anti-Semitic incidents in Europe, and urges European governments to formally recognize and partner with Jewish community groups to better secure Jewish communities. It also encourages European governments to work with their Jewish communities to develop safety standards and information sharing systems. H. Res. 293 – This resolution expresses concern over anti-Israel and anti-Semitic incitement within the Palestinian Authority as antithetical to peace, and urges President Abbas and Palestinian Authority officials to discontinue all official incitement and exert influence to discourage anti-Israel and anti-Semitic incitement in Palestinian civil society. It also directs the U.S. Department of State to regularly monitor and publish information on all official Palestinian Authority incitement against Jews and Israel.
10.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) voted with 265 other Democratic and Republican Members of Congress to pass H.R. 1314, a bipartisan budget agreement that creates jobs, protects seniors, affirms the full faith and credit of the United States and invests in our future. “I am proud to join in this bipartisan effort to find a path forward for hard-working American families. This responsible budget agreement makes significant progress on the urgent challenges facing the American people,” Congressman Boyle said. “With passage of this bipartisan deal, we have strengthened our national security and invested in our future, we have averted imminent crisis and we have acted to protect the health and retirement security of America’s seniors and families.” The bipartisan budget agreement passed today enables crucial investments in America’s future after years of the damaging sequester – securing equal funding increases in defense and domestic initiatives over the next two years, and allowing for investments in such critical areas as education and R&D. Further, the bill takes immediate action to prevent a major increase in Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles for millions of seniors in 2016. The agreement also stops a drastic 20 percent cut in disability benefits in 2016, all while extending the solvency of Social Security Disability Insurance. Fending off the Republican threat of a first-ever U.S. default, this bill makes clear that the full faith and credit of the United States is non-negotiable and unbreakable with a clean debt limit suspension. Put simply, this bipartisan budget agreement provides greater economic certainty to businesses and families, and it is estimated that it will create an additional 340,000 jobs in 2016 alone – along with increased economic growth. “Today, we pushed through the gridlock to pass a bipartisan budget package that strengthens the economy and creates jobs, protects seniors and people with disabilities, averts crisis and invests in the success of America’s hard-working families,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “I am pleased Congress was able to come together to win progress for the American people with this agreement.” # # # #
10.28.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) will join House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer and other House Democrats for the third “Make It In America: What’s Next?” hearing from 1:00 to 3:00 p.m. In 2010, House Democrats launched the Make It In America plan to spur the creation of high-wage, private-sector jobs here in our country so that more workers and their families can secure a place in our middle class. Since then, sixteen Make It In America bills have been signed into law. However, five years after Make It In America first launched, our economy has significantly changed, and we are facing a different economic landscape. This series of hearings provides an opportunity for Members to explore new ideas and solicit feedback as we work to update the Make It In America plan for 2015 and beyond. This will be the second “Member Day” hearing, featuring House Democrats testifying about ways we can update the Make It In America jobs plan to ensure that it reflects the challenges and opportunities of today’s economy. Congressman Boyle will explore what American families and businesses need in 2015 to Make It In America by appearing on the Rebuilding America’s Promise Please tune in by clicking here for a livestream of the hearing.
10.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) voted with 312 other Democratic and Republican colleagues in the House to pass H.R. 597, a bipartisan bill to reauthorize the job-creating Export-Import Bank. The Export-Import Bank helps level the playing field for American manufacturers and small businesses hoping to compete and sell their goods in foreign markets and succeed in the global economy. At absolutely no cost to taxpayers, the bank directly supported 164,000 American export-related jobs in the last year alone, and has created or sustained 1.5 million private sector jobs since 2007. In the 13th U.S. Congressional District in Pennsylvania, 21 companies were impacted by the expiration of the Export-Import Bank: Exporter City Product Total Insured Shipments, Guaranteed Credit/Disbursed Loan Total Export Value Agusta Aerospace Corporation Philadelphia Transportation Equipment Mfg/ Sales $76,269,094 $89,728,346 American Refining Group, Inc. Conshohocken Petroleum and Coal Products Mfg/Sales $66,885,740 $66,885,740 Asi Technologies, Inc Montgomeryville Machinery Mfg/Sales $14,728,220 $14,728,220 Atd-American Co. Wyncote Textile Mills, Products/Sales $116,597 $116,597 Aztec Products, Inc. Montgomeryville Machinery Mfg/Sales $59,200 $59,200 Delaware Valley Fish Company Norristown Food Mfg/ Sales $149,550 $149,550 Electro-Science Laboratories, Inc. King Of Prussia Chemical Mfg/Sales $4,704,313 $4,704,313 Intl Metals And Chemical Group Jenkintown Misc Mfg/Sales Non Capital Equipment $40,500,000 $125,000,000 Kingsbury Inc. Philadelphia Machinery Mfg/Sales $123,204 $169,753 Metal Edge International, Inc. North Wales Paper Mfg/Sales $1,820,401 $1,820,401 National Label Company, Inc. Lafayette Hill Administrative, Mangement/ Support Services $6,300,000 $38,000,000 Nextdocs Corporation King Of Prussia Professional, Scientific/Technical Services $7,820,476 $7,820,476 Philadelphia Gear Corp. Norristown Machinery Mfg/Sales $63,157 $78,937 Philadelphia Scientific LLC. Montgomeryville Electrical Equipment Mfg/Sales $309,920 $309,920 Precision Metal Services, Inc. Montgomeryville Primary Metal Mfg/Sales $354,636 $354,636 R & M International Sales Corp. Fort Washington Misc Mfg/Sales Non- Capital Equipment $6,840,000 $35,600,000 R & M International Sales Corp. Fort Washington Misc Mfg/Sales Non-Capital Equipment $439,380 $439,380 Recycling Paper Partners Of Pa Conshohocken Administrative, Management/Support $336,806 $336,806 S.b. Global Foods, Inc Montgomeryville Food Mfg /Sales $5,818,287 $5,818,287 Sapling, Inc. Huntingdon Valley Misc Mfg/Sales $1,804,155 $1,804,155 Wesco Industrial Products, Inc. North Wales Machinery Mfg/Sales $228,400 $228,400 “It has been nearly four months since the charter for the Export-Import Bank expired. Four months of lost economic opportunity for businesses large and small in the 13th District and across Pennsylvania,” said Congressman Boyle. “Today, I stood with virtually all my Democratic colleagues and over 120 Republicans brave enough to buck their leadership and proudly voted to pass and send to the Senate the bipartisan Kirk-Heitkamp bill to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which the Senate passed earlier as an amendment to the Highway bill.” On October 9, after months of inaction by House Republican leaders, Rep. Boyle along with 175 Democrats and 42 Republicans took historic action and signed a discharge petition to force the House Republican leadership to bring H.R. 597 reauthorizing the Ex-Im Bank to a vote. Last night, the House voted to discharge the bill and begin debate on the legislation. Today, the House passed the bill by a vote of 313-118. “The American manufacturers and small businesses that the Ex-Im Bank supports are the backbone of the American economy. Pennsylvania businesses, workers and the communities they support will benefit from the Bank’s reauthorization. That we had to literally force this critical legislation to the floor with a rarely successful procedural measure is shameful,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “I am glad that a number of my Republican colleagues finally put partisan politics aside to work with us to send this bipartisan bill to the Senate and then onto the President for his signature.” ####
10.27.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) issued the following statement about the proposed bi-partisan budget deal: “Since taking office in January I have encountered many frustrations on Capitol Hill. However, last night’s compromise on a multi-year budget package is one of the best examples of bipartisan progress I have seen in the past 10 months. As I continue to evaluate the final package, I applaud those on both sides of the aisle who came together to achieve progress on these important issues.” “The deal ensures equal increases in funding defense and non-defense priorities, extends the solvency of Social Security Disability Insurance, and affirms that the full faith and credit of the United States is non-negotiable with the inclusion of a clean debt limit suspension. I am also very pleased to see the deal protects millions of seniors from a significant increase in their Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles next year.” “Although I am still evaluating the specifics of the 144-page deal, it is encouraging to see my colleagues put people before politics. I hope we continue this bipartisan work in the year ahead.”
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – With just eleven days remaining before a November 3 deadline for Congress to raise the debt ceiling to avoid a government default, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer, Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn, and hundreds of other Democratic lawmakers to announce the support of the House Democratic Caucus for a clean extension of the debt ceiling. 190 Democrats signed onto a letter sent to House Speaker John Boehner which demands a vote on a clean extension of the debt ceiling so that America continues to pay its bills. The letter reiterates that doing so will not authorize any new federal spending. The text of the letter follows: October 23, 2015 The Honorable John Boehner Speaker of the House United States House of Representatives H-232, The Capitol Washington, DC 20515 Dear Mr. Speaker, Congress will soon be faced with the question of raising the debt ceiling. The solvency of the federal government requires Congress to act in a timely fashion. Failing to do so will plunge the nation into default for the first time in American history, risking economic catastrophe. Raising the debt ceiling will ensure that America pays its bills for expenses already incurred, and does not authorize any new spending. When the House takes up this issue, we will support a clean extension of the debt ceiling which will allow America to continue to pay its bills as they come due. We categorically reject the view that it would be acceptable for America to default if unrelated demands are not met. As you will recall, when this irresponsible tactic was employed in 2011, it cost the American taxpayer $19 billion in higher interest costs.
10.23.2015	Washington, D.C. - Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) issued the following statement about the Treasury Department’s plan for Puerto Rico: “I applaud President Obama and his administration’s proposed package of legislative measures addressing the fiscal and public debt challenges faced by Puerto Rico. It is extremely important that we stand with Puerto Rico in restructuring its unsustainable debt burden. We also need to help them grow their economy so that Puerto Ricans can focus on the essential work of investing in a brighter economic future. The inequitable treatment by the federal government has constrained Puerto Rico’s ability to restructure its debt through an orderly court-supervised process. It is essential that Congress grants the government of Puerto Rico the legal authority to restructure the territory’s public debt.” “Congress must recognize the right of self-determination for Puerto Rico and realize that we must continue to work together for their opportunity and prosperity in the coming years. I look forward to working with my colleagues to advance these measures on a bipartisan basis. The people of Puerto Rico deserve healthcare justice and the ability to expand opportunity for the 3.5 million Americans that live on the island.”
10.23.2015	Washington, D.C.- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) called for Republicans in Congress to immediately act to protect seniors and people with disabilities from significant increases in their 2016 Medicare Part B premiums and deductibles. Congressman Boyle is a cosponsor of legislation, introduced by Rep. Dina Titus (D-NV), that would fix this problem by keeping Part B premiums and deductibles for all Medicare enrollees at 2015 levels. “I am calling upon Speaker Boehner to immediately bring up legislation to keep health care affordable for America’s seniors,” said Congressman Boyle. “Time is running out to prevent drastic, disastrous Medicare premium and deductible increases for millions of seniors beginning on January 1.” Each year, the Medicare Part B premium is calculated to cover 25 percent of program costs, so when program costs rise so do the premium costs. However, there is also a “hold harmless” policy in existing law that ensures that most seniors do not see a decrease in their Social Security check if the Part B premium increase is projected to be greater than the Social Security cost of living adjustment (COLA). On October 15, it was announced that there will be no Social Security COLA in 2016. As a result, the “hold harmless” policy will ensure that about 70 percent of America’s seniors will be protected from any increase in their 2016 Medicare premium. Unfortunately, the other 30 percent of Medicare beneficiaries are not held harmless, including such groups as new Medicare enrollees, beneficiaries whose Medicare premiums are not deducted from their Social Security checks, and higher-income beneficiaries. Because of the way the law is written, it is estimated that premiums for this 30 percent of Medicare enrollees will be disproportionately increased from $104.90 per month in 2015 to $159.30 per month in 2016, unless Congress acts. In addition, if Congress does not act, deductibles will also spike – and the deductible increase will be paid by all Medicare enrollees. “In Pennsylvania alone, a total of 671,000 Medicare enrollees will be affected by this spike in the premium – including 347,000 who are low-income and whose premium increase will be paid by the state Medicaid program and 324,000 who will have to personally pay this dramatic increase in their premiums,” Congressman Boyle pointed out. “In addition, our state government will have to pay $105,967,000 for the premium increase for low-income seniors. This is entirely unacceptable, and entirely preventable.” “Unless Congress acts, many seniors will find Medicare premiums and deductibles simply unaffordable next year,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “It would be unconscionable for Congress not to do something immediately to ensure that health care remains affordable for all of America’s seniors.”
10.22.2015	Philadelphia- Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (PA-13) announces the creation of a new Congressional Advisory Council on domestic violence. The Congressional Advisory Council consists of experts, community leaders, and advocates throughout Philadelphia and Montgomery Counties to address new ways to combat domestic violence and better address the challenges facing victims. The following individuals have been nominated and accepted their appointment to the Congressional Advisory Council: - Mark Levy, Montgomery County Prothonotary (Co-Chair) - Betsy Kilkenny (Co-Chair) - Jeannine L. Lisitski, Executive Director of Women Against Abuse - Jennifer Serrano, Victim’s Advocate - Beverly Hahn, Chairwoman of Montgomery County’s DFA - Beth Sturman, Executive Director of the Montgomery County Laurel House - Lisa Deeley, Northeast Victim Service - Elise Scioscia, Women Against Abuse Public Policy Director “I am proud this impressive group of men and women has agreed to serve on this important advisory council,” said Congressman Boyle. “Domestic violence is one of the most important issues in society today and there is so much we can be doing to stop it. The fight for victims of domestic violence was the cornerstone of my service in Harrisburg and I have been working tirelessly to continue that fight in DC. My work both at home and in Washington can only benefit from the expertise and input of this group.” Meeting both in Montgomery County and Washington DC, the Congressional Advisory Council will take a comprehensive approach towards identifying tangible initiatives to fundamentally alter the supports provided to victim of domestic violence. The Council plans to look at the issues from all aspects, from the victim’s often arduous journey through the criminal justice system, to the need to enhance physical and emotional supports for victims. While Congressman Boyle was in Harrisburg as a State Representative, he introduced a package of reforms to address the deficiencies in how the justice system interacted with victims of domestic violence, including the HP 1369, the GPS Electronic Monitoring Bill that was just reintroduced by State Representative Kevin Boyle (D-172). The bill would allow a judge to require a GPS electronic monitoring device be placed on an individual found to be in violation of the terms of his or her parole or present a risk of committing crimes or abuse.
10.15.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-D-13) once again demanded immediate action in Congress now that the Highway Trust Fund is set to expire in only 17 days. With the looming October 29st deadline, Congressman Boyle again called for a long-term bipartisan solution that will repair America’s deteriorating roads, bridges and transit systems – like he helped to achieve in the Pennsylvania State House when Democrats and Republicans came together to fund these important infrastructure needs. Since 2009 Congress has voted 34 times to extend the trust fund through short-term funding gimmicks, including twice in the past five months alone. “It is mind-blowing that we are once again talking about a short-term patch for financing the Highway Trust Fund,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “The roads and bridges we commute on, on a daily basis, are crumbling. It is time to invest in American infrastructure and create good paying construction jobs for hardworking Americans in Pennsylvania. This is a matter of safety, efficiency, and economic growth.” "The inability of Congress to pass a long-term transportation bill is, perhaps, the best example of the dysfunction in Washington, D.C,” said Governor Edward Rendell. “Instead Congress has passed 36 stopgap, short-term measures, because of their failure to agree on funding for this vital need. This has to stop." In Pennsylvania, 57 percent of roads are in mediocre or poor condition, forcing drivers to spend approximately $2.947 billion dollars annually on otherwise unnecessary automotive repairs, creating costs for commuters and businesses moving their goods to market. With 42 percent of our state’s bridges also being structurally deficient, it is clear that it is far past time for the radical Republican leadership in Congress to join Democrats in their effort to correct and improve America’s infrastructure for long-term prosperity and safety. "Pennsylvania needs Congress to find a long-term, sustainable solution to fund improvements for transportation. In the 2014 Report Card for Pennsylvania’s Infrastructure, the American Society of Civil Engineers graded roads a ‘D-,’ bridges a ‘D+,’ and transit a ‘D,’” said Ann Tomalavage, PE, PMP, LEED AP, Chair of the ASCE Pennsylvania Infrastructure Report Card. “We will only be able to improve those grades if the federal government acts now to pass a multi-year highway and transit bill that invests in transportation long-term.” “Investing in our country’s roads, bridges and infrastructure is a great way to keep our citizens safe while providing good paying jobs,” said state Representative Kevin Boyle
10.07.2015	PHILADELPHIA, PA- Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) and Get Covered America are joining together to host an Affordable Care Act enrollment drive at the Olney Free Library this Saturday, October 10th. The third Affordable Care Act Open Enrollment Period starts soon on November 1st, but many Pennsylvanians don’t realize that they are eligible to sign up for coverage now – either because of a life event that qualifies them for Marketplace enrollment, or through Pennsylvania’s new Health Choices program. Congressman Boyle and Get Covered America are hosting a health insurance enrollment event where Pennsylvanians will be able to sit down with free counselors to get assistance enrolling in Health Insurance Marketplace plans, the new Pennsylvania Health Choices program, or CHIP. The event will take place this Saturday October 10th from 11AM to 1PM at the Olney Free Library at 5501 N 5th St, Philadelphia, PA 19120. To make an appointment interested residents can call the Olney Office at (267) 335-5643 or visit gcaconnector.org. Who is Eligible to Enroll? • Pennsylvanians may be eligible for the Health Choices program if they earn less than 138% of the Federal Poverty Level which is $16,243 for a single individual or $33,465 for a family of four. There is no deadline to enroll in Health Choices plans. For more information on Pennsylvania Health Choices visit www.healthchoicespa.com. • Pennsylvanians are eligible for the Marketplace special enrollment period if they experience a qualifying life event such as reaching the age of 26, losing a job or moving to or from another state. To find out who is eligible visit the HealthCare.gov screener at https://www.healthcare.gov/screener/. Consumers are asked to bring: • Social Security or Immigration Document Number for each person in the household • Date of Birth for each person in the household • Employer information and tax documents for each person in the household (W-2 and other tax forms) • Identification Consumers who are interested in attending should visit gcaconnector.org to make an appointment.
10.06.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Representative Mark DeSaulnier led a letter signed by Representatives Bonnie Watson Coleman and Brendan Boyle, all freshman members of the Transportation and Public Assets Subcommittee, calling on Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) to convene a hearing on the implications and consequences of Volkswagen’s actions for American consumers and, to identify potential policy solutions for federal agencies to prevent similar egregious actions from occurring again. “Clearly, there appears to be a growing and pervasive disregard for consumer safety, public health, and environmental protections by some within the auto industry. By convening a hearing on the implications of deceptive practices within the auto industry, the Committee can thoughtfully consider the negative consequences for U.S. taxpayers, auto workers, and federal regulatory agencies, and determine if adequate protections are in place to minimize or eliminate future occurrences,” the Members wrote. A copy of the letter can be found here. “As former Chair of the Transportation Committee in the California State Senate and a member of the California Air Resources Board, I am deeply concerned about the blatant and pervasive disregard for environmental protections, consumer safety, and public health in the automaker industry. Individual bad actors must be held accountable to disincentivize corporate wrongdoing, and we must fully comprehend the role of federal agencies in regulating these companies,” said Congressman Mark DeSaulnier (CA-11). “There’s no excuse for misleading and outright deceiving American consumers. We need to understand what happened here, and whether actions like these have become a trend within the auto industry that requires additional action at the federal level. Consumer safety, environmental stewardship, and the wellbeing of our communities are vital. Our committee can and should play an important role in safeguarding these priorities,” said Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (NJ-12). “It is shocking and completely disheartening that VW has apparently been rigging vehicles for years to avoid negative emission test standards,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13). “The American public needs answers as to how this gross violation of trust was allowed to happen, how we will hold VW accountable, and how we will prevent this from happening again. The best way to do that is to have VW executives come before our committee and answer our questions in person.”
10.02.2015	Philadelphia- As the region braces for some potentially dangerous weather this weekend, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) wants to remind everyone that his Montgomery County and Philadelphia offices will be open to answer any questions and help with any problems. The best number to call after business hours is 202-256-2888. Local organizations and companies are also offering safety information. This is information from PECO’s website: Before a storm hits or an outage occurs, it's good to be prepared... • Keep PECO's emergency telephone number, 1-800-841-4141, handy with other emergency numbers near the telephone. Have at least one standard non-cordless telephone or a cellular phone available to make calls. • Have a flashlight with fresh batteries on each floor of your home. • Avoid using candles; a battery-operated lantern would be a better bet. If using candles, never leave them unattended. • Have a battery-powered clock. For more information from PECO: https://www.peco.com/CustomerService/OutageCenter/Pages/ReportanOutage.aspx The Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency issued this information: “We are several days away from any impact from Hurricane Joaquin, but we’re expecting more rain this weekend so if you live in a flood prone area, get ready,” said Richard D. Flinn, Jr., director of the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Agency. “It is important for people to be prepared and what they do now can make a big difference if there is flooding later.” Flinn said it is important for the public to understand the difference between a flood watch and a flood warning because each represents a different level of action to be taken. • A flood watch means that flooding may occur. Residents should stay alert and watch rivers and streams, and be prepared to move to high ground quickly. • A flood warning means that there is actual flooding. Residents should act at once and move to high ground. “People tend to underestimate the force of water,” Flinn said. “Six inches of fast-moving water can knock over a person and 12 inches of rushing water can carry away a small car. It is never safe to drive through or walk into flood waters.” To help ensure safety for motorists and emergency responders alike, state law mandates that motorists who drive around or through signs or traffic control devices closing a road or highway due to hazardous conditions will have two points added to their driving records and be fined up to $250. Penalties are higher if emergency responders are called to rescue motorists who disregard warning signs. Flinn said parts of the state could also see strong gusty winds over the weekend, and residents should consider securing or storing outdoor furniture, decorations or other items that could damage buildings or cars and injure others. For more information from PEMA: https://www.pema.pa.gov/Pages/Default.aspx#.Vg1lwPlVhBc For more information from Philadelphia City Emergency Services: https://www.phila.gov/osh/emergencyservices/Pages/default.aspx Montgomery County Emergency Services https://www.mces.org/
09.25.2015	Washington, DC- Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-D-13) issued the following statement today on the resignation announcement by Speaker of the House John Boehner: “I was surprised by today’s news that Speaker of the House John Boehner will be retiring next month. Putting party politics aside, I want to thank the Speaker for his decades of service to our country. The first time I met Speaker Boehner was at my inauguration in January of this year when he swore me into office. He was gracious and kind to my entire family that morning. The second child of twelve, who grew up in a two bedroom house in Cincinnati, he truly is an example of the American Dream. As a fellow Catholic I can understand why he would choose to announce his resignation after the incredibly humbling and inspiring meeting with His Holiness Pope Francis on Thursday. I wish the Speaker all of the best in his future endeavors.”
09.11.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) commended Vice President Joseph Biden, Attorney General Loretta Lynch, and Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance, Jr. for the announcement that millions of dollars in grants will be used to analyze thousands of rape kits that have been sitting on local law enforcement shelves for years, neglected and untested; which left victims in unimaginable limbo, without any closure or sense of justice. “This additional funding will make a huge difference for the timely, effective prosecution of rape and sexual assault crimes across the country,” said Congressman Boyle. “My fight for increased funding began on the state level in Pennsylvania years ago. I am pleased to see this infusion of money to help several cities, including Philadelphia, address the rape kit backlog – and I remain committed to fighting for additional resources. The need is great, and long overdue.” As reported in the New York Times, a series of grants will be distributed to law enforcement across the United States to test DNA samples in thousands of neglected evidence kits. The U.S. Department of Justice vowed those funds will also be used to analyze why the backlogs occurred in the first place, and what changes can be made to prevent these issues from reoccurring. Much of this funding was authorized in 2013 as part of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act. In total, $79 million will be dedicated to addressing the rape kit backlog through targeted grants. The first set of grants, funded by the Manhattan District Attorney’s office, range from $97,000 for the Travis County Sheriff’s Office in Austin, Tex., to $1.9 million for the Maricopa County Attorney’s Office in Phoenix, Ariz. These funds will total $38 million. The second set of grants, pledged by the U.S. Department of Justice, total $41 million. The recipients for these grants will include police departments in Philadelphia, Penn.; Kansas City, Mo.; Las Vegas, Nev.; Miami, Fla.; Riverside, Calif.; and Tallahassee, Fla. State police crime labs in Arkansas, Georgia, Tennessee, Utah, West Virginia and Wisconsin are also on the list of grantees.
08.26.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) is marking Women’s Equality Day by celebrating the fact that, 95 years ago, a group of dedicated women and men made history when the 19th Amendment was adopted, ensuring America’s women the right to vote. Across the 72 years between the first major women’s rights conference at Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848, and the adoption of the 19th Amendment, America’s suffragettes and their supporters marched and petitioned, risked imprisonment, and showed enormous courage and vision. “As the father of a beautiful one year old daughter, I take great pride in honoring Women’s Equality Day,” said Congressman Boyle. “This important date reminds us of the progress our nation has made toward living up to America’s ideals. We acknowledge the enormous progress that has been achieved for women over the last 95 years – as women now constitute nearly half of the workforce and hold leadership positions in both government and private industry. And yet, we must also use this occasion to rededicate ourselves to ensuing that the fight for women’s equal access and opportunity continues.” Congressman Boyle is committed to rectifying the many outdated policies existing today that diminish women’s economic opportunities. For example, women on average are still paid only 78 cents for every dollar paid to men --- an unacceptable wage gap that hurts women and their families nationwide. This disparity is made worse by a failure of many employers to provide family-friendly workplace policies. Women today bear the brunt of the burdens caused by a lack of paid sick days and of paid family leave in this country. As primary caregivers and co-breadwinners, now more than ever in our history, when women can’t take time off to recover from pregnancy or illness, or to care for a sick child, they have to make impossible choices between their families’ health and a paycheck. “There is no better way to increase economic growth and reignite the American dream than expanding economic opportunity and security for women and their families – by taking such steps as ensuring equal pay for equal work, providing paid sick days, encouraging paid family leave, and expanding affordable child care, ” Congressman Boyle pointed out. “On this Woman’s Equality Day, let us rededicate ourselves to unleashing the potential of women, knowing that in America, when women succeed, America succeeds,” concluded Congressman Boyle.
08.05.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) marked the 22 year Anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) by praising the accomplishments of the law. It was August 5, 1993 when the FMLA was signed into law, and since then the law has helped families across the country more than 200 million times. Thanks to the protections provided under the FMLA, hard-working Americans are able to take time away from their jobs to address serious health conditions, welcome a new child, or care for a seriously ill loved one – without fear of losing their jobs or health insurance coverage. “The Family and Medical Leave Act has been a godsend over the past two decades, but there is still more work to be done to provide security to families and strengthen the middle class,” said Congressman Boyle. “Currently, hard-working Pennsylvanians are not guaranteed the right to earn paid sick days under state law. Pennsylvania families need the security of paid sick days to protect their financial stability. Paid sick days, in turn, will also strengthen our state economy by maintaining a healthy workforce.” The Healthy Families Act (H.R. 932/S. 497), which Congressman Boyle proudly cosponsors, would establish a national paid sick days standard, allowing workers in businesses with 15 or more employees to earn up to seven job-protected paid sick days each year to be used to recover from their own illnesses, access preventive care, provide care to a sick family member, attend school meetings related to a child’s health condition or disability or seek assistance related to domestic violence, stalking or sexual assault. Workers in businesses with fewer than 15 employees would earn up to seven job-protected unpaid sick days each year to be used for the same reasons, unless their employers choose to offer paid sick days. According to the National Partnership for Women & Families, paid sick days keep families healthy. When workers have paid sick days, they are able to get regular physicals and take their children to well-child visits and for immunizations, which can prevent serious illnesses. Moreover, children with serious illnesses fare better when their parents are able to stay with them. Businesses also benefit from employee paid sick days. A 2012 report by the Center for American Progress estimated that on average 1/5 of an employee’s annual salary goes to health care costs. Paid sick days would result in reduced turnover, which in turn would lead to reduced hiring and training costs for businesses. Paid sick days also decrease unnecessary health care costs. According to 2011 findings by the Institute for Women’s Policy Research, universal access to paid sick days would eliminate an estimated 1.3 million emergency room visits each year, saving $1.1 billion annually in costs to individuals, private insurers and public programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid.
08.03.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) applauded President Obama and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on the finalized Clean Power Plan that will lead us toward bold yet attainable results in the ongoing fight against climate change. “The Clean Power Plan will put us on the right path toward addressing our contribution to global climate change,” said Congressman Boyle. “This plan will make the planet a better place for generations to come. I am honored to serve in Congress and support the President’s landmark action. As a young father and a relatively young Member of Congress serving on the Foreign Affairs Committee, I am especially eager to tackle the challenges posed by climate change.” Today at the White House, President Obama and EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy released the final Clean Power Plan, a historic step in the Obama Administration’s fight against climate change and that of our international community. The Plan will bring about tremendous air pollution and health benefits in addition to reducing carbon pollution from our electric power sector and advancing clean energy innovation, development, and deployment. It ensures the U.S. will stay on a path of long-term clean energy investments that will maintain the reliability of our electric grid, promote affordable and clean energy for all Americans, and continue United States leadership on climate action. Over the past three decades, the percentage of Americans with asthma has more than doubled. Extreme weather events – from more severe droughts and wildfires in the West to record heat waves – and sea level rise are hitting communities across the country. In fact, 14 of the 15 warmest years on record have all occurred in the first 15 years of this century. Last year was the warmest year ever. The most vulnerable among us – including children, older adults, people with heart or lung disease, and people living in poverty – are most at risk from the impacts of climate change. Taking action now is critical. According to the White House, the Clean Power Plan establishes the first-ever national standards to limit carbon pollution from power plants. While there are already limits reducing soot and other toxic emissions, existing power plants, the largest source of carbon emissions in the United States, were permitted to release as much carbon pollution as they wanted. The final Clean Power Plan sets flexible and achievable standards to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 32 percent below 2005 levels by 2030, and allows states to determine their preferred path toward achieving the goal. The Clean Power Plan will reduce premature deaths from power plant emissions by nearly 90 percent in 2030 compared to 2005. It will decrease the pollutants that contribute to the soot and smog and can lead to more asthma attacks in kids by more than 70 percent. The Clean Power Plan will also help avoid up to 3,600 premature deaths, lead to 90,000 fewer Asthma attacks in children, and prevent 300,000 missed work and school days. The Clean Power Plan will also drive more aggressive investment in clean energy technologies, resulting in 30 percent more renewable energy generation in 2030 and continuing to lower the costs of renewable energy. That will save the average American family nearly $85 on their annual energy bill in 2030, and save consumers a total of $155 billion from 2020-2030.
08.03.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle joined House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (MD) and a group of 20 House Democrats on a trip to Israel and the West Bank. The trip is an opportunity to learn more about issues critical to the U.S.-Israel relationship and international security. The delegation will meet with Israeli and Palestinian government officials, including Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin, and Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas. They will also meet with U.S. Ambassador Dan Shapiro and military officials, and they will visit important historical and cultural sites, including the Yad Vashem Holocaust Memorial. The trip is organized by the American Israel Education Foundation, an independent, nonprofit charitable organization.
07.30.2015	Washington, DC- Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) continued his efforts to fight for the environment by celebrating Climate Action Day today. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is scheduled to release its final Clean Power Plan to modernize our energy sector and reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. Congressman Boyle fully supports federal action to address climate change. “Climate change is an undeniable problem and one of the greatest challenges we face today,” said Congressman Boyle. “It threatens not only our environment, but also our public health, safety, and economic prosperity. The EPA’s Clean Power Plan sets the first ever federal limits on carbon pollution from existing power plants that causes climate change, invests in clean, renewable energy, and boosts energy efficiency. The plan, which is set to be finalized in the coming days, gives us an unprecedented opportunity to protect public health while also improving our economy. Particularly as a new dad and a relatively young Member of Congress, I applaud the President for his leadership on environmental protection. This type of leadership in the face of a great, global challenge is the American way.” “In addition to reducing climate change pollution, the Clean Power Plan will reduce dangerous power plant pollution that triggers asthma attacks, heart attacks, and premature deaths,” continued Congressman Boyle. “And, with smart planning, it will benefit consumers by lowering electricity bills over the long term. For these reasons, among others, I urge my fellow Members of Congress to join me in supporting the Clean Power Plan and calling for climate action now.”
07.28.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined a bi-partisan coalition to introduce H.R.3220, the Medicare Common Access Card Act. The bill would require the Department of Health and Human Services to initiate a “smart card pilot program” and issue new, more secure Medicare cards to select participants. These new cards would better protect personal information by moving it from the front of the card to a secure, encrypted microchip inserted into the card. The chip technology would keep personal information more secure from fraud, hacking and identity threats, and give Medicare beneficiaries assurances their billing is accurate when they visit their doctor. “This legislation represents an important modernization and security improvement for Medicare recipients and the doctors who treat them,” said Congressman Boyle. “It will help cut down on the billions of dollars a year lose to waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare while protecting seniors from security threats and updating our outdated billing system.” The goals of the pilot include: • Increasing the quality of care furnished to Medicare beneficiaries • Improving the accuracy and efficiency in the billing for Medicare items and services • Reducing the potential for identity theft and other unlawful use of Medicare beneficiary identifying information • Reducing waste, fraud, and abuse in the Medicare program. According to the nonpartisan Office of Management and Budget, an estimated $60 billion each year is lost to waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare. Using a smart card would update and correct the current “pay and chase” system. Today, the government pays Medicare reimbursements without first verifying the validity of the charges and then, if the charges prove to be fraudulent, attempts to track down those responsible. The bill was introduced by Reps. Boyle, Blumenauer, Costello and Dold.
07.27.2015	Washington, DC—Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA) joined with bipartisan group of 125 Members of Congress calling on Secretary of State John Kerry to support equal treatment for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Foreign Service Officers (FSOs) and their spouses. Leading the effort were Representative Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), the top Democrat on the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Rep. Nita M. Lowey (D-NY), the top Democrat on the House Committee on Appropriations; and Rep. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), chair of the Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on the Middle East and North Africa. Recent reports suggest that some governments refuse to accredit same-sex spouses of American FSOs, effectively preventing these diplomats from doing their jobs simply because of their sexual orientation. The letter in part states: “As the United States continues to make progress toward equality for our lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community, many countries around the world have yet to address their own discriminatory practices. As such, we are writing to express our concerns about recent reports that American LGBT Foreign Service Officers (FSO)s are sometimes denied an equal opportunity to represent the United States abroad because certain foreign governments refuse to recognize their same-sex marriages. As Members of Congress, we believe that when same-sex couples working for the State Department receive equal treatment at home and abroad, our diplomatic corps truly reflects the American ideals of openness, equality, and human rights.” “The Supreme Court's decision in United States v. Windsor affirmed that commitment, stating that the federal government has a Constitutional obligation to treat all spouses equally regardless of sexual orientation. The June 26 decision in Obergefell v. Hodges further demonstrated the Court’s commitment to equality. While we understand the challenge in dealing with foreign governments that discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation, we call on the State Department to send a forceful message that all American families must be treated equally,” the Members continued. ####
07.23.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) signed on as an original co-sponsor of the Equality Act, legislation to ban discrimination against LGBT individuals in public accommodations, housing, employment, and other core areas of daily life. “No one should ever be discriminated against or denied basic services based on who they are or who they love,” said Congressman Boyle. “The Equality Act will ensure that LGBT Americans are afforded the same basic protections under the law as everyone else. I am proud to help lead this fight in the House of Representatives.” The Equality Act, which is sponsored by Congressman David N. Cicilline (D-RI-1) in the House and Senator Jeff Merkley (D-OR) in the Senate, will amend the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to make it illegal to discriminate against someone based on their sexual orientation or gender identity. The legislation, which Congressman Boyle helped introduce today, would apply to public accommodations, federal funding, education, employment, housing, credit, and jury service. Despite last month’s Supreme Court ruling that affirmed marriage equality, discrimination against LGBT individuals remains legal in most states. Today, only 19 states and the District of Columbia offer employment and housing protections for the LGBT community. Three other states have prohibitions on discrimination based solely on sexual orientation. Only 17 states and the District of Columbia prohibit discrimination for public accommodations based on sexual orientation or gender identity. Another four prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation. Just 14 states and the District of Columbia prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity in education. And only one state, Wisconsin, prohibits it based on sexual orientation. A study conducted earlier this year by the non-partisan Human Rights Campaign found that 63% of LGBT Americans have experienced discrimination in their personal lives. Another study found that one out of every 10 lesbian, gay, and bisexual workers have been fired from a job because of their sexual orientation.
07.22.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) joined Chairman of the House Democratic Caucus Congressman Xavier Becerra (CA-34), Congressman Lloyd Doggett (TX-35), Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (IL-09), Congresswoman Doris Matsui (CA-06), Social Security Disability beneficiary and advocate Susan Flashman, and Max Richtman of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare to announce new legislation that will ensure that all Americans receive their earned Social Security despite Republican gamesmanship. The One Social Security Act would prevent proposed cuts next year, and guarantee that Social Security benefits remain available to hard working men and women who earned those benefits. “We must protect 11 million Americans from this manufactured cliff: a 20 percent cut to their earned Social Security benefits, thanks to House Republican rules, if Congress doesn’t act soon,” said Congressman Boyle. “This cliff exists despite the fact that Social Security currently has $2.8 trillion in trust fund reserves, which those Americans helped to save up through their hard work and contributions to Social Security. The average American facing a cut in 2016 worked and paid into Social Security for 22 years. We cannot stand by and accept this threat to their economic security.” The One Social Security Act ensures that Americans get the Social Security benefits they’ve earned through years of hard work, without adding a penny to the deficit or the debt. The legislation would pay all Social Security benefits using existing trust fund reserves that current Social Security beneficiaries helped build up through their own contributions, but eliminate arbitrary restrictions on reallocation of funds and eliminate the artificial cut “cliff” imposed by internal House Republican budgeting rules “Congress must act without delay to ensure that all Americans receive the Social Security they have earned,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “The One Social Security Act would prevent these cuts in a responsible way. I am proud to join my colleagues in the fight to promote responsible solutions like this.”
07.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) issued the following statement on the Older Americans Act which was signed into law on July 14, 1965: “Today is the 50th anniversary of the Older Americans Act, an important law that guarantees that Older Americans who have worked hard, raised families, and kept our country strong should be able to live with dignity and independence. The Older Americans Act helps them do that by providing critical services to millions of senior citizens and their families.” “President Truman held the first National Conference on Aging in 1950, and in 1961, delegates to the White House Conference on Aging made recommendations that led to the Older Americans Act. The Act was signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson on July 14, 1965.” “Each year the Older Americans Act provides more than 11 million people with services like home-delivered and congregate meals – known as Meals on Wheels – which is a program most people know about. However, others are unaware that because of the Older Americans Act seniors have transportation to medical appointments and the grocery store, adult day care and more.” “The Older Americans Act also provides critical support and respite services to those caring for older adults – and, today, over 35 million Americans are family caregivers. The Older Americans Act promotes health and well-being – helping manage diabetes, prevent falls, and improve behavioral health so seniors can live at home in their community.” “Sadly over 2 million seniors are the victims of elder abuse, neglect and/or exploitation, but thanks to Older Americans Act training and technical assistance to stop that abuse is provided across the country. The Older Americans Act also funds the Senior Medicare Patrol which trains Older Americans and their families how to report Medicare and Medicaid fraud.” “Happy Anniversary Older Americans Act, and here’s to many more!”
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) issued the following statement after President Obama announced that the negotiators of the P5+1 nations have reached a nuclear agreement with Iran: “This is one of the most important foreign policy decisions of this era, and I am pleased that the White House worked with my colleagues in the Senate to ensure that we will have the opportunity to review this agreement in depth. My colleagues and I on the House Foreign Affairs Committee will be holding hearings and briefings over the next 60 days to review all details of this deal. I look forward to studying this agreement with intense scrutiny and making my views known in the near future.”
07.10.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-D-13) demanded immediate action in the House now that the Highway Trust Fund is set to expire in only 22 days. With the looming July 31st deadline, Congressman Boyle again called for a long-term bipartisan solution that will repair America’s deteriorating roads, bridges and transit systems. “Republicans are living in a fantasy land if they do not believe that we need a long-term measure to fix our broken infrastructure,” said Congressman Boyle. “The roads and bridges we commute on, on a daily basis, are crumbling. It is time to invest in American infrastructure and create good paying construction jobs for hardworking Americans in Pennsylvania.” In Pennsylvania, 57 percent of roads are in mediocre or poor condition, forcing drivers to spend approximately $2.947 billion dollars annually on otherwise unnecessary automotive repairs, creating costs for commuters and businesses moving their goods to market. With 42 percent of our state’s bridges also being structurally deficient, it is clear that it is well past time for the radical Republican leadership to join House Democrats in their effort to invest in America’s infrastructure. “House Republicans continue to kick the can down the road and recklessly ignore the urgent crisis presented by the expiration of the Highway Trust Fund,” continued Congressman Boyle. “Americans deserve a long-term plan that invests in America’s crumbling infrastructure and creates jobs, not special interest giveaways for the ultra-wealthy.”
07.09.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) criticized Mondelez International for closing down the Nabisco Plant in Northeast Philadelphia. The plant’s recent closure left 350 hardworking Pennsylvanians without jobs. Here is a clip of his speech on the House Floor this afternoon:https://www.c-span.org/video/?c4543575/congressman-boyle-say-oreo Thank you, Mr. Speaker. Last week, many of us were waving, proudly waving, our flag celebrating Fourth of July and also rooting on the successful women’s soccer team in winning the World Cup. Unfortunately, at the same very time we were doing that displaying our patriotism – the company that makes Oreo cookies and Ritz crackers, two very well-known American brands decided that for the first time in sixty years they would close their legendary Philadelphia plant in the heart of my district laying off over three-hundred workers because they are shipping the jobs to Monterey, Mexico. Now, keep in mind this is a company, Mondelez, that is in no way in financial disarray. In fact, their revenues last year topped fifty billion dollars. This plant that was closed is profitable, but not profitable enough. But there is good news! I do congratulate their CEO, Ms. Irene Rosenfeld who got a fifty-percent pay increase in the last few months at the same very time over three-hundred workers from my district were getting laid off. Mr. Speaker, it’s not right. Say no to Oreo!
07.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) applauded the President’s announcement that the Department of Labor will propose extending overtime pay protections to nearly 5 million salaried American workers. This proposal would increase the current overtime protection threshold, guaranteeing overtime pay to most salaried workers earning less than an estimated $50,440 per year. “For far too long, Americans have worked harder, but their wages have stayed the same.” said Congressman Boyle. “The proposed rule announced today will affirm the fundamental American principle that a long day’s work deserves a fair day’s pay.” The salary threshold for overtime pay for American workers has been changed only twice in the last 40 years and now covers far fewer workers due to inflation. Currently, only workers making less than $23,660 per year – a wage below the poverty threshold for a family of four – are guaranteed overtime pay. This proposal updates the overtime rules to ensure that millions more Americans who work over 40 hours per week will receive overtime pay. Beginning on Monday, when the proposed rule appears in the Federal Register, the American public will have 60 days to submit comments on this rule – a rule that would benefit so many American families. “Increasing the wages of hard-working families in Pennsylvania is essential to the health of our economy and the strength of our democracy,” said Congressman Boyle. “Congress must focus on creating more good-paying jobs, growing Americans’ paychecks, and strengthening hard-working families.”
06.26.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) issued this statement today after one employee was killed and two others injured at the Air Products and Chemicals Inc. plant in Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, France. The company’s main headquarters are in Allentown, Pennsylvania. “There are no words to describe my horror after hearing about the barbaric attack in France this morning,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “My thoughts go out to the victims’ families and friends, and to all of the employees of Air Products and Chemicals Inc. as they deal with today’s brutal attack. Sadly this is just another reminder that our fight against terrorism is fought every day all on every corner of the globe. As a Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I am confident our government will support the French in their investigation into these horrific events.”
06.26.2015	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) applauded the landmark decision of the Supreme Court in Obergefell v. Hodges guaranteeing same-sex couples the freedom to marry across our nation under the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Now, committed same-sex couples no longer have to fear an unstable patchwork of marriage protections and the important rights inseparably linked to marriage. “This is a momentous day for all Americans, especially the LGBT community, and their families and friends who have stood by them fighting for equal rights across the United States,” said Congressman Boyle. “It is a vindication of our constitution’s promise of equality for all Americans. The Fourteenth Amendment protects the legal rights of all U.S. citizens– regardless of the state one happens to live within or move to. Equal protection means marriage equality.” Last month, a Gallup poll showed that sixty per cent of Americans agree that marriage between same-sex couples should be recognized as valid. That number is the highest it’s been in the nineteen years that Gallup has been asking the question. “I am pleased to see the Court reflect what the overwhelming majority of the American public knows to be true: same-sex couples should have access to the security and dignity of a legally respected marriage,” reflected Congressman Boyle. “Every loving and committed couple deserves the rights and respect afforded to us all under the law, and the ensuing obligations and protections the law provides. The Court’s ruling is an important step toward ending the indignity and injustice of discrimination that is faced by many on account of whom they love and where they happen to live.” Marriage equality has already been affirmed in thirty-seven states and the District of Columbia.
06.24.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, as House Republicans held their 60th vote to repeal or undermine the Affordable Care Act, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-14) called for immediate action to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank and protect American jobs. The charter of the Ex-Im Bank, a key support for American workers and American businesses looking to sell their goods overseas, expires on June 30. House Republicans are planning to recess for the month on Thursday, and allow the charter to expire. “It is outrageous that Republicans have found time for their 60th vote against the Affordable Care Act, but refuse to stand with American workers and American business exporting their goods overseas,” said Congressman Boyle. “I am tired of Republicans putting their partisan grandstanding above the jobs of hard-working Pennsylvanians whose jobs have been supported by the Ex-Im Bank since 2007.” In total, the Export-Import Bank has created or sustained 1.5 million private sector jobs since 2007, at no cost to the taxpayer. Three times in recent months, Democrats have moved to have the House consider legislation to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank’s charter. Republicans have refused to allow a vote on the bill each time. Tonight, instead of addressing the impending Ex-Im charter deadline, Republicans are voting once again to undermine the Affordable Care Act, by repealing the Independent Payment Advisory Board and slashing the vital Prevention Fund, which funds such critical services as cancer screenings and childhood immunizations. “Republicans need to abandon their obsession with the Affordable Care Act, and stop trying to dismantle the newfound health security of millions of American families across the nation,” Congressman Boyle concluded.
06.22.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last week, Congressman Brendan Boyle (PA-13) joined his Democratic colleagues in a joint statement welcoming Pope Francis’s call for action on climate change in the encyclical “Laudato Si.” The statement, organized by Pittsburgh area Congressman Mike Doyle (PA-14), reads: “We welcome the Pope’s encyclical on the need for the world to address climate change. We think it’s only appropriate that one of the world’s most influential religious leaders is speaking out about what we believe to be one of the most important moral issues of our time. The Pope accepts the overwhelming international scientific consensus that human production of greenhouse gases is causing global climate change – change characterized by more frequent extreme weather conditions and a rising sea level. Scientists tell us that these changes will hurt poor and vulnerable people around the world disproportionately hard. We share the Pope’s belief that we should all be good stewards of God’s creation, preserve it for future generations, and care for our vulnerable brothers and sisters. Climate change is a clear threat to those responsibilities. That’s why we believe the federal government should adopt policies to halt climate change and help poor and vulnerable people who are suffering disproportionately from its effects.” In “Laudato Si,” the encyclical issued last week, Pope Francis dedicated a large portion of his message to addressing climate change. His message focused on the impacts of climate change, including flooding, extreme storms, devastating heat waves, and failing crops that are impacting the poor around the world. Pope Francis called on elected officials around the world to move quickly to slash the carbon pollution that is fueling climate change.
06.22.2015	Philadelphia, PA – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined the Chairman and President of the Export-Import Bank, Fred Hochberg, and U.S. Senator Bob Casey (D-PA) at the AgustaWestland facility to again call for the reauthorization of funding for the Export-Import bank. This is the second trip to AgustaWestland in as many months for Congressman Boyle. “This is not the time for partisan games,” stated Congressman Boyle. “Now is the time for a long-term reauthorization to renew, reenergize and reform the Bank, so that it can continue supporting jobs across the country.” The current authorization of the Export-Import Bank is set to expire on June 30, 2015. H.R. 1031, the Promoting U.S. Jobs Through Exports Act of 2015, would reform and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank for an additional seven years, creating much needed certainty and stability for American businesses. Congressman Boyle is an original cosponsor of the bill. The Bank enjoys broad bipartisan favor and supports thousands of American jobs by providing critical financing and helping small and medium-sized businesses across the country access foreign markets on a level playing field. All the while, the Bank adds nothing to the national deficit. In fact, it generated $675 million for American taxpayers just last year. Reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank will continue to strengthen our nation’s economic growth. The Ex-Im Bank supports tens of thousands of small and medium-sized businesses throughout the country; in fact, nearly 90% of Ex-Im’s transactions are with small businesses. In Fiscal Year 2014 alone, the Ex-Im Bank directly supported 164,000 American jobs at over 3,300 companies. Earlier this month, Congressmen Brendan Boyle, U.S. Senator Brian Schatz (D-HI), and Congressman Patrick Meehan (R-PA-7) introduced the American Export Promotion Act to help small- and medium-sized firms grow their export capacity, and better access and compete in global markets through grant and technical assistance. As Congress debates global trade policy and the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank, set to expire at the end of June, Schatz, Boyle and Meehan are fighting to empower American businesses to export their products across the globe. “The Export-Import Bank is a vital institution for the American economy with direct economic benefits for workers and job-creators in my district,” continued Congressman Boyle. “The Bank creates American jobs and empowers U.S. manufacturers to access and compete in foreign markets. Playing political games with the Bank is misguided and irresponsible. We should be laser focused on supporting cost-effective, job-creating programs like this.” Letting the Ex-Im Bank’s authorization expire would put American businesses at a disadvantage in the global economy. Many American businesses depend on the Bank to provide the vital financing they need to stay competitive in the international marketplace. Similar banks in Canada, China, Japan, and more than 50 other nations extend greater export financing to their businesses. In the 13th U.S. Congressional District in Pennsylvania, 21 companies would be impacted by the expiration of the Export-Import Bank.
06.18.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined Senator Bernie Sanders (I-VT) and Representative Marcy Kaptur (D-OH-9) introducing the Keep Our Pension Promises Act and calling for restored protections for hard-earned retirement security afforded by multiemployer pension plans. “Pensions are promises to our workers that must not be broken; a critical source of retirement security for millions of Americans,” said Congressman Boyle. “Destructive measures undercutting multiemployer pension plans snuck into last year’s must-pass omnibus spending bill would, for the first time in over forty years, allow pension plans to arbitrarily cut the benefits they promised to retirees who spent years earning them. More than ten million Americans who rely on multiemployer pensions are now confronted with a less secure retirement. They could even risk slipping into poverty without the hard-earned pension income owed to them. This legislation will prevent that from happening. And, more broadly, it will shore up increasingly unstable pension plans and make sure an employer’s obligations to its workers are fulfilled.” The Protect Our Pension Promises Act will undo last year’s anti-worker provisions by restoring rules that do not allow pension plans to unilaterally cut benefits. It will also help pension managers who are under great financial stress by helping them to reinforce their underfunded plans with the ability to put ‘orphaned’ pensioners into a separate plan where it is easier to manage obligations owed to them. This bill will make sure that a company’s pension obligations to its past and present employees are the top priority should it face bankruptcy.
06.18.2015	Washington, DC - Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) delivered the following remarks on Wednesday on the floor of the House of Representatives opposing H.Con.Res. 55, which would withdraw American deployed to Iraq and Syria to combat ISIS, and reiterating his call for the House to pass a new authorization for the use of military force (AUMF): CLICK HERE TO VIEW THE VIDEO “Thank you. I thank the ranking member and also the chair of our committee. I also want to thank the sponsor and author of this resolution, Mr. McGovern. Thanks to him, we finally have a chance to discuss and debate this issue right here on the house floor. Before I entered this body, when I was a state legislator and a candidate, I noticed back last August-September as the ISIS movement was growing in Iraq and Syria and other parts of the Middle East, the British Parliament rushed back to London to debate a war resolution. And I was deeply disappointed as an American citizen, and quite frankly shocked, that the United States Congress did not do exactly the same thing: to come here and outline and debate the parameters by which we would authorize the President to wage war against this evil and barbaric threat. Unfortunately that did not happen. Several months ago, I think it might have been back in January, President Obama did submit to the Foreign Affairs committee, of which I am proudly a member, an authorization to use military force. Unfortunately that AUMF, somewhat predictably, got attacked by some on the right as insufficient in some areas, and frankly it got attacked by some on the left as insufficient in other areas. Both sides had legitimate discussions and concerns. What went wrong after that is that we didn’t actually have that discussion or debate right here on the house floor. It was too easy for members of this body to just say, “This is too difficult. We’re going to let the President handle it, and we are going to shirk our responsibility. That is wrong. Mr. Speaker, I do not support – let me be clear – the resolution that’s in front of us and will not be voting for it. I think an outright withdraw of troops within the next six weeks would be a terrible mistake, and is not the approach that we should take. But I do believe it’s about time to do our duty and responsibility and have this discussion and debate. It is about time we, the Congress of the United States, on a bipartisan basis, come up with an actionable plan to fight and defeat ISIS. One that is consistent with our values, and at the same time one that does not inadvertently commit us to five and ten years down the road, responsibility that we do not envision today. So with that Mr. Speaker, I yield back the remainder of my time.”
06.17.2015	Philadelphia, PA - Rep. Charlie Dent (PA-15), Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Rep. Ralph A. Abraham (LA-5), M.D., Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs (DAMA) Subcommittee organized meetings with both administrators and employees at the offices of the Philadelphia Veterans Affairs Regional Office (VARO) this morning. The Philadelphia VARO was the subject of a recent scathing Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General (VA OIG) report detailing major failings in the processing and management of benefits for veterans. Data manipulation of veterans’ benefits claims, hiding unprocessed mail and failing to respond to over 30,000 inquiries from veterans were just a few examples of the disservice detailed in the report. “Exactly two months ago, the Office of Inspector General released their report which detailed the consequences of a profoundly corrosive and distrustful climate,” said Chairman Dent. “The lack of accountability and the absence of proper checks and balances allowed those entrusted with meeting the needs of their customers – in this case veterans who served and fought for our country – to implement improper and dishonest practices.” Dent and Chairman Abraham were joined by Rep. Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-2) Ranking Member of the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Subcommittee, Rep. Corrine Brown (FL-5) Ranking Member of the House Veterans Affairs Committee, Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-13), Rep. John Carney (DE-At Large), Rep. Ryan Costello (PA-6), Rep. Chaka Fattah (PA-2), Rep. Mike Fitzpatrick (PA-8) and Rep. Patrick Meehan (PA-7). Senators Pat Toomey and Bob Casey were represented by staff at the meetings as well. The group met with the VARO management team first and then with a group of over a hundred and fifty employees. “There was some disconnect between what the managers were telling us about progress and what the employees told us they were still seeing at their jobs,” Dent said. “Frankly, I think the employees get it. Many of the employees here are veterans themselves, and they want to do their best for their fellow veterans who depend on them. It was both eye-opening and heartening to hear their accounts.” A report prepared by the VA Administrative Investigations Board (AIB) will be released on June 30th and will list specific management failures related to the OIG investigation as well as suggested disciplinary actions. The release of this report is crucial to moving on with lessons learned and getting the VARO back on track. “The Office of Inspector General report was a telescope. It was big picture,” Chairman Dent noted. “The AIB report will be looking at the VARO’s problems with a microscope. It will set out a course of action necessary to return quality of service to the levels our veterans deserve, and it will give us a chance to judge whether or not the perceptional gap between management and the employees has been bridged. I commend the progress and steps that the VA’s leadership in both Philadelphia and DC have taken to implement the necessary reforms, and look forward to continuing to be a partner in those efforts through my work in Congress.” Dent thanked his House colleagues for their participation and leadership at the meeting. “I greatly appreciate Chairman Abraham for his help in organizing today’s meeting. I also appreciate the cooperation and interest shown by the two Ranking Members, Representatives Brown and Bishop. Their traveling to join the discussion and to provide experience and insight is something I truly appreciate. Likewise, Representatives Boyle, Carney, Costello, Fattah, Fitzpatrick and Meehan have shown extraordinary leadership in making sure the veterans in their districts are receiving the respect and service they deserve.” Dent concluded. Chairman Dent made it clear that the matter was far from closed in his eyes. “Congress has an oversight responsibility and we will continue to demand accountability and superior service for the veterans who depend on benefits administered through the VARO,” he concluded.
06.17.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Reps. Curbelo (FL-26), Bonamici (OR-01), Stefanik (NY-21), Boyle (PA-13), Lamborn (CO-05), and Higgins (NY-26) introduced H.Res.318, to condemn policies that call for a boycott of Israeli academic institutions or scholars by institutions of higher learning or scholarly associations. “The Boycott, Divestment, and Sanctions (BDS) movement on college campuses has unfairly singled out Israel, our closest friend and ally in the extremely volatile Middle East. Academic boycotts eliminate the possibility of open exchanges of ideas, and it is time for Congress to take notice and make a statement in support of academic freedom. American institutions must be able to engage in academic exchange with Israeli institutions, and I am grateful for the support of my colleagues who are committed to helping this important resolution move forward. All those involved in the higher education system profit from the exchange of varying views and ideas. University leaders have recently observed a decline in joint scientific research with global companies over concern that their combined results would be boycotted. This example is one of many that illustrate the repercussions of the BDS campaign. To stifle respectful debate on college campuses is a threat to academia. This lack of acceptance is a tragedy, and students and teachers, no matter their origin, should be allowed learn and teach freely,” said Rep. Curbelo. “It’s time we take a stand and say we will not sit quietly and condone our higher education system boycotting our trusted friend and ally, Israel,” said Rep. Boyle. “This is an important, overdue statement toward addressing this issue.” “I am proud to join my colleagues on this resolution condemning these policies that hurt our interests, the interests of Israel, and that are contrary to principles of academic freedom,” said Rep. Stefanik. “We have no greater ally in the Middle East than Israel and we should be promoting interaction between our two nations – not boycotting it. I thank Congressman Curbelo for leading this important effort.” “Misguided initiatives to boycott Israeli institutions of higher learning represent a contradiction of the principle of academic freedom and should be thoroughly condemned,” said Rep. Higgins. “These movements unfairly single out Israel, ignoring its rich tradition of the rigorous and free exchange of ideas.” “I am pleased to sponsor this resolution with Representative Curbelo and to underscore Congress’s support for academic freedom,” Rep. Bonamici said. “Universities and their students and scholars benefit from the free and open exchange of diverse perspectives and opinions. Unfortunately, the BDS movement on college campuses threatens to stifle debate and dialogue that should be built upon respect for others—even in disagreement. We should not be pushing legitimate voices and views off of our campuses or shutting out foreign students and professors.” “Academic-boycott is an oxymoron,” said Rep. Lamborn.“The attempt to limit the free exchange of ideas prohibits the real aim of academia - the pursuit of truth. It is an affront to the fundamental American education principal of Academic freedom. While cynically purporting to advance freedom and human rights the academic boycott campaign singles out Israel. This at a time when Israel is the only true democracy in the Middle East; where people of all religions and ethnicities enjoy their freedom and can practice their beliefs. The value of American cooperation with Israel’s academia is indispensable. This cooperation plainly saves lives of American civilians every day through medical innovation, and helps us better protect our great country. We should all stand with Israel for the better future of America and freedom.” Rep. Curbelo, along with five bipartisan colleagues, introduced H.Res.318 on June 16, 2015. To view text of this resolution, please visit www.congress.gov
06.12.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) opposed legislation that would grant any president ‘Fast Track’ Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) to negotiate the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) and other global trade deals for up to six years with minimal congressional review and oversight. “The deals currently on the table lack crucial protections for American workers and the environment, which were also missing from past free-trade deals, like NAFTA,” said Congressman Boyle. “We should be empowering the American worker rather than providing a free pass to ship American jobs overseas. Let’s learn from our past mistakes and make the American worker our first priority. Moreover, it is foolish to renew TPA without ensuring full benefits for displaced American workers through an expansive and fully funded reauthorization of TAA.” Since taking office, Congressman Boyle has been fighting to strengthen transparency and congressional debate provisions in relation to Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), strengthen labor and environmental protection provisions of the impending Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) free trade agreement, and robustly fund and extend Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA), which provides workers displaced by global competition with reemployment resources like training and education. In January, Congressman Boyle signed onto a letter sent to President Obama outlining the Congressman’s concerns about TPA and TPP. He has also been working with leaders like Senator Elizabeth Warren and Congressman Sander Levin to address problematic Investor-State Dispute Settlement provisions in the TPP that allow other countries to challenge American labor, health and environmental standards through corporate-dominated arbitration proceedings. Boyle introduced the American Export Promotion Act, H.R. 2729, to help small- and medium-sized American firms grow their export capacity, and better access and compete in global markets through grant and technical assistance. “We should be laser focused on supporting cost-effective, job-creating programs like this,” said Congressman Boyle of H.R. 2729. “We need to access growing consumer markets abroad in a way that also empowers American businesses and workers. We need to do all we can to empower them in that fight. This legislation does just that.” Congressman Boyle is a cosponsor of H.R. 1088, the Trade Adjustment Assistance Act, the House Democrats’ proposal to expand and fully fund TAA until 2020. He also continues to call for the reauthorization of the Import-Export Bank, which empowers businesses across the country to compete in global markets, but has been held hostage by partisan ideologues in Republican House Leadership. The Bank is set to expire June 30 absent congressional action.
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Monday, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) toured ASI Technologies, Inc. in Montgomeryville to get a first-hand look at a local business the will be impacted if funding for the Export-Import bank expires later this month. “The Export-Import Bank is a vital institution for the American economy with direct economic benefits for workers and job-creators in my district,” said Congressman Boyle. “The Bank creates American jobs and empowers U.S. manufacturers to access and compete in foreign markets. Playing political games with the Bank is misguided and irresponsible. We should be laser focused on supporting cost-effective, job-creating programs like this.” The current authorization of the Export-Import Bank is set to expire on June 30, 2015. H.R. 1031, the Promoting U.S. Jobs Through Exports Act of 2015, would reform and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank for an additional seven years, creating much needed certainty and stability for American businesses. Congressman Boyle is an original cosponsor of the bill. The Bank enjoys broad bipartisan favor and supports thousands of American jobs by providing critical financing and helping small and medium-sized businesses across the country access foreign markets on a level playing field. All the while, the Bank adds nothing to the national deficit. In fact, it generated $675 million for American taxpayers just last year. Reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank will continue to strengthen our nation’s economic growth. The Ex-Im Bank supports tens of thousands of small and medium-sized businesses throughout the country; in fact, nearly 90% of Ex-Im’s transactions are with small businesses. In Fiscal Year 2014 alone, the Ex-Im Bank directly supported 164,000 American jobs at over 3,300 companies. Letting the Ex-Im Bank’s authorization expire would put American businesses at a disadvantage in the global economy. Many American businesses depend on the Bank to provide the vital financing they need to stay competitive in the international marketplace. Similar banks in Canada, China, Japan, and more than 50 other nations extend greater export financing to their businesses. In the 13th U.S. Congressional District in Pennsylvania, 21 companies would be impacted by the expiration of the Export-Import Bank. “This is not the time for partisan games,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “Now is the time for a long-term reauthorization to renew, reenergize and reform the Bank, so that it can continue supporting jobs across the country.”
06.11.2015	Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) opposed legislation that cuts Amtrak funding by roughly $250 million. H.R. 2577, the annual Transportation-HUD Appropriations bill, passed the House of Representatives 216-210, largely on a party-line vote. “This bill drastically short-changes job creating investments critical to hard-working American families, like roads, bridges, and rail systems, and undermines access to safe and affordable housing. These investments are especially important for Southeast Pennsylvania’s crumbling infrastructure,” said Congressman Boyle. “The bill’s cuts to Amtrak are particularly offensive in light of last month’s Philadelphia derailment and the growing needs of the Northeast Corridor. It is unacceptable that the United States still lags behind in many basic rail safety investments, in addition to our sorry deficit in high-speed innovation and modernization.” The Federal Rail Administration estimates that the Northeast Corridor’s aging train infrastructure needs an additional $4.3 billion just to salvage it from a state of chronic disrepair. Last month’s derailment in Philadelphia was a tragic reminder of the costs of our failure to invest in rail safety and modernization. The bill provides an inadequate $55.3 billion in net discretionary spending for the upcoming fiscal year – $9.7 billion below the President’s budget request, which called for robust investment in our nation’s bridges, roads and rail. The overall Republican budget framework for FY 2016 is dangerously inadequate. The sequester-level caps would put non-defense discretionary spending at its lowest level, adjusted for inflation, in the past decade, leading to draconian cuts to crucial investments. Boyle supports the bill’s new funding for video cameras inside locomotive cabs to record engineers and help investigators get to the bottom of crashes like last month’s derailment. On March 4, 2015, Congressman Boyle voted for H.R. 749, the Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015, which authorizes increased investment and capital improvement projects in the Northeast Corridor. In addition, the bill authorized $5.3 billion in grants to Amtrak and included an amendment requiring a report to be submitted to Congress on a proposal for Northeast Corridor Express Service (high speed rail). Congressman Boyle will continue to call for bold investment in our nation’s infrastructure, particularly Amtrak’s Northeast Corridor. His Op-Ed piece in the Philadelphia Inquirer highlights that call. Both bills await Senate consideration. President Obama has threatened to veto the appropriations bill due to its inadequate funding for needed infrastructure investments.
06.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) continued his message to House Republicans after it was announced the economy added 280,000 new jobs in the 63rd consecutive month of private sector job creation. Congressman Boyle called on Republicans to stop endangering hundreds of thousands of American jobs and act immediately to avert the impending expiration of two key engines of job creation: the Export-Import Bank and the Highway and Transit Trust Fund. “Pennsylvanians are tired of the endless crises of the Republican Congress damaging our economy and costing us good-paying jobs,” said Congressman Boyle. “It is outrageous that Republicans have no plan to reauthorize the Export-Import bank or the Highway and Transit Trust Fund that support so many businesses, jobs and communities here in the Granite State.” The Export-Import Bank helps American businesses of all sizes sell their goods overseas and supported 1.5 million private sector jobs since 2007. While 180 Democrats have signed a discharge petition to bring the bill up for a vote, radical Republicans have blocked action in the House – leaving only 12 legislative days until the Bank’s charter expires on June 30. Later this summer, the Highway and Transit Trust Fund will expire in the middle of the critical summer construction season. Now, the Republican Congress is hurdling towards another deadline without a plan for the long-term reauthorization our nation needs, threatening our roads, rails and bridges and putting the jobs of 660,000 Americans at risk. “Apparently, Republicans have been too busy serving the special interests to address the urgent deadlines threatening jobs and communities in Pennsylvania,” continued Congressman Boyle. “Congress should be working to create jobs and grow the wages of hard-working families, not dragging our country through more needless crises. It’s time for us to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, renew the Highway and Transit Trust Fund, and get to work expanding the opportunities of America’s families.”
06.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) highlighted a new report showing that 6.4 million Americans in the 34 states with Federally Facilitated Marketplaces would lose tax credits to help pay for insurance coverage, if the Supreme Court were to rule against the Administration in the Republican, politically-motivated lawsuit of King v Burwell. In November 2014, the Supreme Court announced that it would take up the case of King v Burwell. The case involves a challenge to providing federal tax credits to consumers who receive Affordable Care Act (ACA) insurance coverage through the Federally Facilitated Marketplaces. Oral arguments were heard on March 4. The Supreme Court will issue a ruling before the end of the term in June. “In promoting the King v Burwell lawsuit, Republicans are attempting to do through the courts what they have been unable to do in Congress – undermine and dismantle the Affordable Care Act,” Congressman Boyle pointed out. “Republicans and their allied groups have not given up since they lost in June 2012 when the Supreme Court ruled that the ACA was constitutional. They appear determined to not stop until they can strip millions of Americans of their affordable health coverage. “ On the merits, the challengers have an enormously weak case. The text, structure, and history of the Affordable Care Act are clear: premium tax credits are available to all eligible Americans, regardless of whether they live in a State that chose to set up its own Marketplace or chose to let the Federal Government set one up for it. The law’s text authorizes tax credits for all eligible individuals, regardless of where they live. Specifically, the law provides that a tax credit “shall be allowed” to any “applicable taxpayer” based on income. The Supreme Court has repeatedly stressed that statutes must be read as a whole. The challengers’ argument, if accepted, would frustrate the central purpose of the ACA, taking away tax credits from millions of Americans, and would contradict the language of the Act itself. The law has such titles as “Quality Affordable Care for All Americans” and subtitles as “Affordable Coverage Choices for All Americans.” Indeed, the challengers’ argument was created many months after the Affordable Care Act became law – no Republican legislator during the consideration of the ACA mentioned that those in the Federally Facilitated Marketplaces could not receive tax credits. Furthermore, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, in estimating the Affordable Care Act, read the law to say that tax credits were available in all states with Federally Facilitated Marketplaces. “I believe that the Supreme Court will rule that the challengers’ argument lacks merit and that it is clear that the ACA provisions, taken together, require the conclusion that tax credits are available in all Marketplaces under the ACA,” Rep. Boyle concluded. “This important report highlights the dire consequences for millions of Americans if the court were to rule the other way.”
06.04.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) introduced a bill that would prevent the federal pension system from investing in companies that boycott Israel. “This is an important statement of principle and act of fiscal responsibility,” said Congressman Boyle. “It’s time we take a stand and say we will not invest taxpayer dollars, the hard-earned pension dollars of our dedicated federal workforce, in companies that disinvest in our close ally and trusted friend, Israel. This is a simple but important, overdue step toward addressing this issue.” Congressman Boyle’s legislation would prohibit investments by the federal retirement system in companies that boycott Israel. The language of the bill is listed below: To prevent the federal pension fund from investing in companies that boycott Israel. Transactions prohibited by federal retirement systems; companies that boycott Israel. (a) As used in this Section: “Boycott Israel” means engaging in actions that are politically motivated and are intended to penalize, inflict economic harm on, or otherwise limit commercial relations with the State of Israel or companies based in the State of Israel or in territories controlled by the State of Israel” “Company” means any sole proprietorship, organization, association, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, or other entity or business association, including all wholly owned subsidiaries, majority-owned subsidiaries, parent countries or affiliates of those entities or business associations, that exist for the purpose of making profit.
06.01.2015	“The final Clean Water Rule announced by the EPA and Army Corps of Engineers is a victory for every American. We all rely on clean water. We all deserve to know that our water is clean, safe to drink, and free of chemicals. The rule returns Clean Water Act protections to streams that feed drinking water sources for more than 8 million Pennsylvanians, and 1 in 3 Americans. The Clean Water Act has been hugely successful since first-enacted in 1972, but this rule represents an important, necessary update to clarify the law, to the benefit of our environment and public health. Being a new dad gives me added perspective and sense of responsibility, a strengthened commitment to these issues. I am proud to stand up for rivers and streams like the Wissahickon and Schuylkill so my daughter, Abby, can safely enjoy them as I have.”
05.14.2015	Washington, D.C. – On Tuesday night, Congressman Brendan F. Boyle (D-PA-13) conveyed his heartfelt sympathy with those who were on Amtrak Northeast Regional Train 188 when it derailed in Philadelphia. “My deepest condolences go out to those who died and the dozens who were injured and traumatized in this tragedy, and my gratitude goes out to the police, fire, and emergency medical technicians who rushed to their aid. Nearly 250 people were on that train, and any one of us could have been among them. As we help the victims and their families recover, and to correct whatever what went wrong with Train 188, we must restore the public’s faith in Amtrak’s role as a vital transit provider in the Northeast Corridor.” “We must never take for granted the bravery of the hundreds of emergency responders and police officers who navigated the mangled steel to usher the survivors to safety. And we must never take for granted the vigilance of the doctors and nurses who provided care at our community’s hospitals. Under the responsive leadership of Mayor Michael Nutter, Fire Commissioner Derrick J.V. Sawyer, Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey, and Governor Wolf, Philadelphians rallied to soften the blow of this disaster. Today, we should all take a moment to thank those who work at their own risk to help us recover from events like this.”
05.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) marked Infrastructure Week by calling on Republicans to protect good paying jobs and avert the impending expiration of the Highway and Transit Trust Fund at the end of May. Until Congress acts to reauthorize the Trust Fund, 660,000 jobs and 6,000 projects are at risk, but Republicans have no plan to restore long-term certainty to these workers and communities across the country. “It is unacceptable that Republicans are continuing to threaten good-paying jobs and needed construction projects not only in Pennsylvania, but across the entire country,” said Congressman Boyle. “Hundreds of thousands of jobs for hard working Americans hang in the balance, but Republicans are too busy serving the special interests to come up with a solution that meets the needs of our nation.” The Highway and Transit Trust Fund expires on May 31, with only seven legislative days remaining before then. State, local and business leaders across the country have been calling for a bold, long-term reauthorization of the Trust Fund for months. Yet the Republican Leadership has not put forth a single bill to reauthorize the fund. “Pennsylvanians deserve bigger paychecks and better infrastructure, but once again, Republicans aren’t interested in either,” continued Congressman Boyle. “It is time to restore long-term certainty to the Highway Trust Fund, create more good paying jobs, and build infrastructure worthy of the 21st century.”
05.07.2015	"The US-UK relationship is an important one. Today Britain is voting in what appears to be the closest election in decades. Unlike all past elections, a multi-party government is likely to emerge. Whatever the British public decides, I hope a strong and stable government will emerge that continues to value this relationship. Together, our two countries must continue to work closely on important issues, such as combatting the rise in terrorism, fighting poverty in the developing nations, and promoting peace and justice in Northern Ireland. As a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I look forward to working with Britain’s elected leaders to continue our progress on these fronts."
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – On Thursday, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) voted against the House Republican Military Construction and Veterans Affairs annual appropriations bill and released the following statement: “Yesterday, with great disappointment I joined 162 colleagues in voting against the House Republican annual funding bill for military construction and veterans affairs. The bill fell far short of the investment owed and needed to properly care for our nation’s veterans and improve our Department of Veterans Affairs. While I was pleased to see some improvements to the Philadelphia VA Regional Office contained in the bill, and I remain fully committed to rectifying the failings of our regional office and the VA system overall, our veterans and military personnel deserve nothing but the best; far more than this bill provided.”
05.01.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) is helping to lead the fight to give hardworking Americans a long-overdue increase to the Federal minimum wage. Today, Congressman Boyle signed on as an original cosponsor of the Raise the Wage Act to raise the Federal minimum wage from $7.25 to $12.00 by 2020. The bill, introduced in both the House and Senate, would also gradually eliminate the subminimum tipped wage system and index the Federal minimum wage to keep pace with the rising median wage. “I am proud to stand with the hardworking Americans in my district and across the country to advocate for this increase in pay,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “I’ve said this before, and I’ll say it again until it no longer holds true: ‘no one who works full time should have to live in poverty.’ The Raise the Wage Act will make sure those who work hard earn enough to get them above the poverty line. Raising the minimum wage will grant these hard-working Americans some financial independence, and they will no longer have to rely on the estimated $152.8 billion that the federal government has to pay out each year to supplement inadequate paychecks through public assistance programs like SNAP.” In Pennsylvania, 1,481,000 workers will directly benefit from raising the minimum wage to $12.00. Of those nearly 1.5 million workers, 880,000 are female and 254,000 are single mothers. In 2007, the Democratic-led Congress passed legislation to phase-in an increase in the Federal minimum wage to $7.25 by 2009. Since that time, the minimum wage has not kept pace with inflation or growth in the median wage, resulting in low-wage workers continuing to fall behind. In fact, the real value of today’s minimum wage is less than it was in 1956. Under the Raise the Wage Act, the Federal minimum wage would start to rise almost immediately. Beginning January 2016 or three months after the date of enactment of the Act, the Federal minimum wage would increase by $0.75 to $8.00 per hour, followed by $1.00 per hour increases every year until it reaches $12.00. Starting in 2021, the Federal minimum wage would keep pace with rising wages overall through automatic annual increases to keep the ratio of the minimum wage constant with the median wage.
04.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) demanded a vote to reauthorize the U.S. Export-Import Bank before it expires this summer. House Democrats filed the discharge petition after Republican Leadership announced plans to let this important resource for domestic industries expire. The Bank enjoys broad bipartisan favor and supports thousands of American jobs by providing critical financing and helping small and medium-sized businesses across the country access foreign markets on a level playing field. All the while, the Bank adds nothing to the national deficit. In fact, it generated $675 million for American taxpayers just last year. “The Export-Import Bank is a vital institution for the American economy with direct economic benefits for workers and job-creators in my district,” said Congressman Boyle. “The Bank creates American jobs and empowers U.S. manufacturers to access and compete in foreign markets. Playing political games with the Bank is misguided and irresponsible. We should be laser focused on supporting cost-effective, job-creating programs like this.” The current authorization of the Export-Import Bank is set to expire on June 30, 2015. H.R. 1031, the Promoting U.S. Jobs Through Exports Act of 2015, would reform and reauthorize the Export-Import Bank for an additional seven years, creating much needed certainty and stability for American businesses. Congressman Boyle is an original cosponsor of the bill. Reauthorization of the Ex-Im Bank will continue to strengthen our nation’s economic growth. The Ex-Im Bank supports tens of thousands of small and medium-sized businesses throughout the country; in fact, nearly 90% of Ex-Im’s transactions are with small businesses. In Fiscal Year 2014 alone, the Ex-Im Bank directly supported 164,000 American jobs at over 3,300 companies. Letting the Ex-Im Bank’s authorization expire would put American businesses at a disadvantage in the global economy. Many American businesses depend on the Bank to provide the vital financing they need to stay competitive in the international marketplace. Similar banks in Canada, China, Japan, and more than 50 other nations extend greater export financing to their businesses. In the 13th U.S. Congressional District in Pennsylvania, 21 companies would be impacted by the expiration of the Export-Import Bank. “The charter represents a bipartisan majority of the House – but some Republicans want to shut it down on ideological grounds,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “This is not the time for partisan games. Now is the time for a long-term reauthorization to renew, reenergize and reform the Bank, so that it can continue supporting jobs across the country.”
04.28.2015	Washington, D.C. – Washington, D.C. – Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined hundreds of members of the House and Senate in support of Marriage Equality as the U.S. Supreme Court begins oral arguments today. “Equal protection means marriage equality, simple as that,” stated Congressman Boyle. “No state should be allowed to discriminate against same-sex couples by denying them the right to marry or refusing to recognize their marriages performed elsewhere. Today also marks the 149th anniversary, to the day, of the equal protection clause’s addition to the 14th Amendment, as it was being drafted. With this case, I hope we will come one important step closer to fulfilling the text’s promise of equality.” In March, House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid along with Respect for Marriage Act co-sponsors Representative Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) and Senator Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) filed an amicus brief in support of the marriage equality cases that are on appeal to the United States Supreme Court. The four cases from Ohio, Tennessee, Michigan and Kentucky challenge state laws that prohibit same-sex couples from marrying and deny recognition to lawful marriages performed by other states. The Supreme Court will decide whether the Constitution guarantees same-sex couples the freedom to marry and to have their marriages respected nationwide. “Today, under federal law, many LGBT Americans still live in states that do not recognize their right to marry,” Leader Pelosi said. “Loving same-sex couples and their families deserve to be treated with dignity, respect, and equality under the law. Now is the time for the Supreme Court to affirm that every American has the right to marry the person they love.” “I’m proud to stand with loving and committed same-sex couples throughout America demanding recognition, respect and equal protection under the law,” said Senator Reid. “Gay and lesbian couples have waited for far too long for the simple dignity of enjoying the same constitutional rights as their straight peers. I hope the Supreme Court will right this historical wrong.” “State marriage bans apply across the board, limiting the right to marry and stay married when crossing state lines and preventing same-sex couples and their children from qualifying for a vast array of marriage-based state and federal rights and responsibilities,” Congressman Nadler said. “These laws impose countless burdens and indignities on gay and lesbian couples and their children. And they serve no legitimate governmental purpose. We firmly believe that everyone should enjoy the same right to marry the person that they love and urge the Court to make the Constitution’s promise of equality a reality for gay and lesbian couples throughout the nation.” “Although the Supreme Court in 2013 ruled that a key portion of DOMA was unconstitutional, state bans on the marriages of same-sex couples still prevent equality under the law,” said Senator Feinstein. “With a favorable ruling, the Supreme Court could ensure once-and-for-all that legal marriage is available to loving, committed couples, regardless of sexual orientation. This would be a huge step toward equality in our nation.” Including Leaders Pelosi and Reid, Congressman Nadler and Senator Feinstein, a total of 167 Members of the House and 44 Members of the Senate signed on to the brief, including Congressmen Conyers, Hoyer, and Clyburn and Senators Leahy, Durbin, Schumer, Murray and the LGBT Equality Caucus Co-Chairs Jared Polis (D-CO), David Cicilline (D-RI), Sean Patrick Maloney (D-NY), Mark Pocan (D-WI), Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), and Mark Takano (D-CA), as well as Senator Tammy Baldwin (D-WI).
04.24.2015	Washington, DC- This week, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Task Force Chairwoman Donna Edwards, and Reps. John Larson, Chris Van Hollen, Ted Deutch, and Zoe Lofgen to call for action to address Citizens United and the corrupting influence of money in politics, and unveil the ‘Democracy For All Task Force: Restoring People-Powered Politics.’ Boyle is one of three freshmen asked by Leader Pelosi to join the Task Force. “Our democracy is only as strong as those who participate in it,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “As a young, newly elected Member of Congress, I am especially aware of the impact our broken system has on young voters. Understandably, they feel disconnected and disillusioned, like their voice doesn’t matter because it is only as loud as their wallet is big. As long as campaign spending is protected like free speech and unlimited, undisclosed dark money is allowed to fund our elections, our democratic system will remain rigged to amplify the voice and influence of wealthy donors. We must commit to reengaging all citizens, making sure our doors are open and their voices are heard. I am proud of the solutions the Task Force, and the Democratic Party, are working hard for.” Last Congress, the Task Force worked to assemble a package of legislative solutions to reform our elections and campaign finance system. Now, the Task Force will expand upon that effort by engaging other Members of Congress, outside organizations and, most importantly, the American public to build momentum to pass these bills into law. The legislative package includes the Democracy for all Amendment, Government by the People Act, DISCLOSE Act, Voter Empowerment Act, and the Redistricting Reform Act.
04.22.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – “We’ve made great progress over the past 45 years, but we still have so much more to do to ensure we leave behind a better world for our children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “It is appropriate that this year the theme of Earth Day celebrations across the nation is ‘It’s Our Turn to Lead.’ From talking honestly about the climate crisis and tackling the challenge head-on to investing in renewable energy and innovative technologies, we can lead the global community and create jobs and opportunity here at home.” In 1970, on the first Earth Day, tens of millions of Americans came together to demand a safer, cleaner and healthier world. Their action had real, life-changing impact – Congress overwhelmingly passed the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Endangered Species Act, and Superfund. As a result, the air we breathe today is cleaner, the water we drink is safer, and the world we live in as a whole is healthier, stronger and more livable. “The time is now for Republicans to put aside their anti-science rhetoric and partisan agenda that empowers the special interests at the expense of the environment, hard-working American families and future generations,” continued Congressman Boyle. “Democrats believe that Congress should work together to create a better, stronger, healthier world for our children by embracing our shared stewardship of this planet and creating policies that preserve our environment. It’s our turn to lead.”
04.15.2015	Washington, DC- “I am still in shock after reading the OIG report this morning. This is a sad day for Philadelphia. It is unthinkable that this level of duplicity, mismanagement, and corruption happened at an agency whose first priority should have been to help our nation’s heroes. Instead they systemically lied, hid, and manipulated their employees to save their own skin. This is a disgrace to Philadelphia and the entire country. I hope we can learn from this incredible miscarriage of trust and justice so that it will never happen again.”
04.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – “Republicans have spent the first 100 days of this Congress stacking the deck for the special interests at the expense of hard-working American families,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “Hard-working Americans deserve better from their Congress. We should be championing bigger paychecks and better infrastructure for everyone, not serving the special interests.” In the first 100 days of the 114th Congress, with control of both the House and the Senate, Republicans have racked up a breathtaking record of manufactured crises, special interest giveaways, and assaults on women, seniors, young immigrants, and hard-working families. The Republican Congress brought the Department of Homeland Security dangerously close to the brink of a shutdown, endangering the security of our entire nation to satisfy the angriest anti-immigrant voices in their party. House Republicans have voted for unprecedented attacks on women’s comprehensive health care, for deporting young DREAMers, and for a budget that would end the Medicare guarantee and hand a $200,000 tax break to millionaires while raising taxes by $2,000 on middle class families. “It is long past time for Republicans to stop empowering the special interests on the backs of hard-working American families,” continued Congressman Boyle. “Democrats believe in making it easier to buy a home, easier to send a kid to college, and easier to have a secure and enjoyable retirement. I will continue to stand for the hard-working people of Pennsylvania, and fight for a bright future of opportunity and prosperity for every American – not just the wealthy and well connected.”
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – As we mark Equal Pay Day today, Congressman Brendan Boyle D-PA-13 continues to demand that more be done to close the wage gap that still exists between women and men – including passage of the critical Paycheck Fairness Act. Equal Pay Day symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. “According to the National Women’s Law Center (NWLC), the women in our state of Pennsylvania women still earn only 76 cents for every dollar earned by men,” stated Congressman Boyle. “As we approach the 52nd anniversary of the Equal Pay Act in June, women still earn only 78 cents for every dollar earned by men nationwide. Sadly, according to a new study by the NWLC, women won’t see pay equity with men until 2058 based on the rate that the pay gap has been closing since 1960. This is completely unacceptable.” “Today, women make up about half of the workforce yet on average they are still being paid less than men,” continued Mr. Boyle. “A woman deserves equal pay for equal work. While women’s role in our economy has changed dramatically, America’s workplaces have simply not kept up.” The Paycheck Fairness Act is a central pillar of the House Democrats’ initiative, When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families. It strengthens and closes loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963. Among its many provisions, the Paycheck Fairness Act requires employers to show that pay disparity is truly related to job performance, not gender; strengthens remedies for women experiencing pay discrimination; prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers; and empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills. “Equal pay is not simply a women’s issue – it’s a family issue,” Congressman Boyle concluded. “Families increasingly rely on women’s wages to make ends meet. When women bring home less money each day, it means they have less for the everyday needs of their families – groceries, rent, child care, and doctors’ visits. House Democrats will not rest until we achieve true pay equity for women – ensuring that all American women in the workforce are receiving equal pay for equal work.”
03.26.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) voted for the 2016 House Democratic Budget, titled “Economic Opportunity for Americans Working Hard to Get Ahead.” “This budget puts hard-working American families first,” said Congressman Boyle. “The top priority of the House Democratic Budget is the American people. It will boost the economy, create more broadly shared prosperity, make critical investments in our future, and keep our promises to seniors – making sure all Americans, not just the wealthy and well-connected, benefit from our growing economy.” “The House Democratic Budget enables us to make key investments in our national infrastructure and create good-paying jobs here in America. It achieves bigger paychecks through tax policies that help the middle class and those working their way into the middle class, and makes needed investments in our future – to create jobs for those still seeking work, to educate our children and prepare them for success, and to sharpen the nation’s competitive edge. Furthermore, it accomplishes these goals while putting the federal budget on a fiscally responsible path, with debt declining as a share of the economy.”
03.25.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro (D-CT) in reintroducing the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation which would help close the wage gap between women and men working the same jobs. On average, women make just 78 cents for every dollar made by a man. “Equal pay for equal work should be a priority for everyone, regardless of gender,” said Congressman Boyle. “Unequal pay is not just a problem for women, it’s also a problem for families, who are trying to pay their bills, trying to get ahead, trying to achieve the American Dream, and are getting a smaller paycheck than they have earned for their hard work. The Paycheck Fairness Act will help the Equal Pay Act fulfill its intended objective, offer real protections to ensure equal pay for equal work, and see that women are paid the same as the other half of our nation’s workforce for the same job.” The Paycheck Fairness Act builds upon the landmark Equal Pay Act signed into law in 1963 by closing loopholes that have kept it from achieving its goal of equal pay. The bill would require employers to show pay disparity is truly related to job performance, not gender. It also prohibits employer retaliation for sharing salary information with coworkers. Under current law employers can sue and punish employees for sharing such information. In addition, it strengthens remedies for pay discrimination by increasing compensation women can seek, allowing them to seek both back pay and punitive damages for pay discrimination. The bill empowers women in the workplace through a grant program to strengthen salary negotiation and other workplace skills, and requires the Department of Labor to enhance outreach and training efforts to eliminate pay disparities. President Obama’s first enacted piece of legislation, signed into law on January 29, 2009, was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, which overturned the 180-day statute of limitations for women to contest pay discrimination. The Paycheck Fairness Act would close the loopholes that allow pay discrimination to continue in the first place and, with Ledbetter, provide employees the rights they need to challenge and eliminate pay discrimination in the workplace.
03.23.2015	[Washington, D.C.] – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) announced that, on the 5th anniversary of the Affordable Care Act, hundreds of thousands of Pennsylvanians are benefiting from this landmark health care law. “Over the last five years since the Affordable Care Act was signed into law, millions of Americans have been seeing the benefits of the law, including lower costs and better coverage,” stated Congressman Boyle. “This includes hundreds of thousands of people right here in Pennsylvania.” Five years after President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act into law, it is clear that the Affordable Care Act is working: • Improving Coverage: Nationwide, thanks to the Affordable Care Act 130 million Americans can no longer be denied coverage due to a “pre-existing condition.” • Improving Affordability: Since the Affordable Care Act was enacted, health care prices have risen at the slowest rate in nearly 50 years. Thanks to exceptionally slow growth in per-person costs throughout our health care system, national health expenditures grew at the slowest rate on record from 2010 through 2013. • Improving Quality: The Affordable Care Act has helped improve the quality of health care, contributing to 50,000 fewer patient deaths in hospitals due to avoidable harms, like an infection or medication error. “Republicans continue to call for the complete repeal of the Affordable Care Act and the economic security it is providing American families while providing no viable alternative,” Congressman Boyle concluded. “Instead, we should all be working together to successfully implement the law. Thanks to the ACA, millions of Americans have gained new access to quality, affordable health care coverage and critical protections for women and individuals ‘pre-existing conditions,’ among else. I will keep fighting to protect and fully implement the law and ensure that my constituents have the health security and economic security they deserve.”
03.20.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) joined more than 175 Democrats supporting the Voter Empowerment Act in the House of Representatives. The Voter Empowerment Act will help ensure equal access to the ballot for every eligible voter nationwide, modernize our voter registration system to help more Americans participate, and take steps to eliminate deceptive practices and voter fraud that deter voters from casting their ballots. “In Pennsylvania, under our previous Republican Governor, we came dangerously close to depriving many Philadelphians of their right to vote,” said Congressman Boyle. “Now, as a Member of Congress, I will fight to make sure voters nationwide are protected from such threats to our democracy.” Congressman Boyle joined lead sponsors Rep. John Lewis (D-GA-5), House Democratic Whip Steny H. Hoyer (D-MD-5), Assistant Democratic Leader James E. Clyburn (D-SC-6), Rep. John Conyers (D-MI-13), and Rep. Robert Brady (D-PA-1) in the reintroduction of the Voter Empowerment Act in the House of Representatives. Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York will introduce a companion version in the Senate. On March 21, 1965, thousands of protestors marched from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama to underscore the need for voting rights legislation that assured access to the ballot box for millions of Americans. Today, sponsors offer the Voter Empowerment Act as a continuation of the ongoing effort to ensure that every American has an equal and fair opportunity to make their voice heard through the electoral process. At a time when some states have implemented or are planning to implement new barriers for voters – often seniors, students, low-income Americans, members of our Armed Services, the disabled, or non-native English speakers – Democrats recognize the need to safeguard our hard-fought democratic progress and protect voting access for all Americans.
03.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) co-sponsored the critically important Bank on Students Emergency Loan Refinancing Act of 2015, which is being re-introduced today by Rep. Joe Courtney (D-CT) and Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). This legislation would provide fairness and debt relief to borrowers with high interest rates on existing student loans in both the public and private markets by allowing them to refinance to lower interest rates, similar to those available to new student loan borrowers. Under the bill, undergraduate student loan borrowers could refinance to an interest rate of 3.86 percent. Currently, some student loan borrowers are stuck with interest rates as high as 8 percent on their existing loans. “The crushing burden of student loan debt is hurting our economy and holding back an entire generation of young Americans,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle. “I personally understand the burden of student loan debt, and I am fully committed to addressing this crisis. This bill takes an important step forward by finally providing borrowers with existing student loans the same option to refinance that millions of other borrowers already have.” “College graduates across the country are putting their dreams on hold as they struggle to pay off their student loans,” continued Congressman Boyle. “Current law prevents millions of hardworking, responsible borrowers from refinancing their student loans at today’s low rates, the way that people can refinance their home and auto loans. This legislation is simply fair.” Congressman Boyle also announced that Philadelphia and Montgomery County borrowers in Pennsylvania would benefit by being able to refinance their student loans at lower interest rates if Congress passes the bill, according to estimates prepared by the Department of Education in June 2014. The Department of Education estimates that nationwide 25 million borrowers would benefit from the bill. Under the bill, a typical participating borrower would save $2,000 over the life of his or her loan. Unfortunately, in the last Congress, Republicans voted to block bringing up this critically important student loan refinancing bill in the House and filibustered the bill in the Senate. “I and other advocates for student loan borrowers will make this bill a top priority this year,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “We will work with student loan borrowers from around the country to make sure their voices are heard and that this needed bill gets enacted this year.”
03.17.2015	Washington- Today, House Republicans released their latest 10 year budget plan which includes repealing the Affordable Care Act, cutting billions of dollars from Medicaid, and shrinking Pell Grant allowances. “Once again the Republicans are trotting out old ideas to do new damage to seniors, children and families,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13). “This budget is a that statement embodies their values, which clearly puts big tax breaks for the ultra-wealthy ahead of the challenges faced by hardworking American families.” “The Republican budget will make it harder to buy a home, harder to send a kid to college, and harder to enjoy a secure and dignified retirement. The American people have had enough of Republicans taking the tools of opportunity away from hardworking Americans to give bigger tax breaks to the super wealthy. It’s time for Republicans to stop stacking the deck against hardworking Americans, and join Democrats in providing better infrastructure and bigger paychecks for everyone.” “As someone who is still paying off my student loan debt the proposed cuts to Pell Grant funding are especially troubling to me. Under the Republicans’ ‘Work Harder for Less’, budget students will face deep education cuts and college will become less affordable. That is not acceptable.” “Instead, we need a better set of values to build a strong and prosperous future for America. House Democrats believe in a budget that invests in the hardworking Americans who are the backbone of our country. We believe in a budget that achieves bigger paychecks, and better infrastructure for every American. We believe in a budget that creates good paying jobs here in America, instead of protecting tax giveaways for corporations shipping jobs overseas. We believe in a tax code that respects the value of work. We believe in a budget that lifts the draconian sequester cuts that have strangled our investments to keep America #1 in the global economy and to ensure our national security, paid for by closing special interest tax loopholes. We believe in a budget that invests in our children’s education, that fuels research and innovation, and that opens new opportunities for everybody.” “It is time for us to give the American people more for their hard work, not less.”
03.07.2015	Philadelphia, PA– Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) is marking the 50th anniversary of “Bloody Sunday” by remembering the heroic actions of civil rights marchers who helped change our nation. On March 7, 1965, a group of brave civil rights marchers, led by Reverend Martin Luther King, Jr., marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama, on their way to Montgomery to demand that African American citizens be finally given their constitutional right to vote. At the bridge, the marchers were attacked by Alabama State troopers, with billy clubs, cattle prods, and tear gas. Many of the marchers were injured, some of them severely. “I salute the extraordinary courage and commitment of those civil rights marchers, who on March 7, 1965, marched across the Edmund Pettus Bridge, simply demanding their right to vote,” Congressman Boyle stated. “All Americans owe the courageous marchers of ‘Bloody Sunday’ a debt of gratitude.” The images of “Bloody Sunday” galvanized the nation. On March 15, 1965, President Lyndon Johnson addressed a Joint Session of Congress, urging Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act. On March 21, Martin Luther King Jr. once again led a march across the bridge – this time joined by 30,000 people from across the country, including national civil rights leaders and Hollywood and other celebrities, and protected by federal troops. On March 25, the marchers reached the steps of the Alabama State Capitol in Montgomery, where Reverend King and the other marchers called for voting rights legislation. “On August 6, 1965, five short months after ‘Bloody Sunday,’ the landmark Voting Rights Act was signed into law,” Congressman Boyle pointed out. “The Voting Rights Act of 1965 was a landmark law, which has been responsible for most of the progress that has been made to outlaw discriminatory voting practices across America over the last 50 years.” “Unfortunately, in June 2013, in a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court issued a ruling that significantly weakened the Voting Rights Act by invalidating a key section,” concluded Congressman Boyle. “Before the end of this year, this Congress must act to enact a revised, renewed and strengthened Voting Rights Act. The necessity of action is critical. The exercise of one’s voting rights are essential to who we are as Americans and to the strength of our democracy.”
03.06.2015	Washington, DC- Today, Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) voted for H.R. 749, the “Passenger Rail Reform and Investment Act of 2015”. The bipartisan bill authorizes $7.2 billion for passenger rail service over the next four fiscal years and includes: • $5.8 billion for grants to Amtrak- $1.9 billion for capital improvements to the Northeast Corridor, and $3.9 billion for long-distance and state supported passenger rail service • $1.2 billion for grants for States - which includes intercity passenger rail and service along the Northeast Corridor • $96 million for the Amtrak Inspector General • Analyzes the implementation of non-stop, high-speed express passenger rail service between Washington, D.C. and New York City, and between Boston and New York City. “This bill is extremely important to the continued economic growth of our country,” said Congressman Boyle, “and I will continue to fight for this critical financing of our crumbling transportation infrastructure. It is essential to growing our economy and promoting responsible transportation options. As an avid Amtrak rider I personally know how crucial it is to make these investments.” The passenger rail service, especially travel along the Northeast Corridor, is an important method of transportation for hundreds of thousands of people every single day and it is essential that we not only maintain those operations but that we also update them.” The bill was passed in the House by a vote of 316-101 and now moves to the Senate.
02.27.2015	Washington, DC– Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) urges his Republican colleagues in the House to approve a “clean” long-term bill to fund the Department of Homeland Security. “Enough is enough,” said Congressman Boyle. “The clock is ticking and the time to act responsibly is now. Our Homeland Security Department cannot afford three more weeks of Republican uncertainty, now is not the time to kick the can down the road. The country needs long term funding for DHS passed now.” “Every Democratic member of the House has approved cosponsoring clean, long-term DHS funding legislation, now it is time for Republicans to do their jobs. This crisis only exists because Republicans are prioritizing anti-immigration extremism over the safety of the American people.”
02.13.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – Reps. Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) and Joe Crowley (D-Queens, the Bronx), Vice Chair of the Democratic Caucus, met with the founder of Sober St. Patrick’s Day, William Reilly. Since 2012, Sober St. Patrick’s Day has worked to create events across the United States where participants can join in celebrating the history, culture and festivities of St. Patrick’s Day in an alcohol-free environment. “St. Patrick’s Day is a chance for everyone to feel a little bit Irish, and events like Sober St. Patrick’s Day help ensure that remains possible,” said Rep. Crowley. “William Reilly and the team behind Sober St. Patrick’s Day are working hard to ensure that those who want to join in the festivities in an alcohol-free environment have the possibility to do so. I thank him for what was a very interesting and productive discussion.” "The Irish cultural heritage is very rich, from literature to music to dance,” said Rep. Boyle. “This is a chance to celebrate and enjoy these aspects of our heritage." Sober St. Patrick’s Day events are held annually in New York City; Richmond, Va., Cleveland, Ohio, and Casper, Wyo., and the organization has plans to expand to Philadelphia this year. The effort is also gaining momentum globally. In 2013, Sober St. Patrick’s Day expanded to the North of Ireland where a free concert for 5,000 people immediately follows the annual Belfast City St. Patrick’s Day parade.
02.12.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama signed H.R. 203, the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans (SAV) Act into law. This bipartisan legislation – which unanimously passed both the House and Senate – addresses the epidemic of suicide among our nation’s veterans. “Suicide among our nation’s veterans is a much too common occurrence,” said Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13). “Thanks to this law, many brave veterans who struggle to overcome mental health challenges will be given better resources, support and benefits they have earned and deserve. I was proud to support this bipartisan legislation in the House and see it signed into law today by President Obama to ensure our nation stands behind our brave veterans with compassion and dedication.” Named in honor of late Iraq and Afghanistan War veteran and noted suicide prevention advocate who committed suicide on March 31, 2011, The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (H.R. 203) is another step toward ensuring our nation’s veterans have the support they need. Twenty-two veterans commit suicide daily – more than 8,000 every year. Of the more than 2 million Americans who have served in combat in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is estimated that one-third, roughly 600,000 women and men, have traumatic brain injury, PTSD or depression. In 2014, over 1.4 million Veterans with a mental health diagnosis enrolled in VHA services–an increase of 64% from 2005. This bill will support those veterans, expanding access to and improving the effectiveness of mental health services to help respond to their specific needs. The Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act will take a multi-faceted approach to improve mental health services for our veterans. The bill will establish a peer support and community outreach pilot program to assist transitioning service members with accessing VA mental health care services. To ease access to services, the bill will require the VA to create a one-stop, interactive website to serve as a centralized source of information regarding all mental health services for veterans. A student loan repayment pilot program aimed at recruiting and retaining psychiatrists included in the legislation will help address the shortage of mental health care professionals. To improve care, the legislation will require an annual, third-party evaluation of all mental health care and suicide prevention practices and programs at the VA to find out what’s working and what’s not. The bill was introduced by Representative Tim Walz (D-MN), the highest ranking enlisted soldier ever to serve in Congress; Representative Tammy Duckworth (D-IL), a Purple Heart recipient, Iraq War veteran, and member of the Army National Guard; and Chairman of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs Committee Jeff Miller (R-FL).
02.12.2015	Washington, DC– Today, Democratic National Committee Chair Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz announced that the 2016 DNC will be held in Philadelphia. Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) issued the following statement moments after the announcement: “I join my fellow Philadelphians in cheering this tremendous news. Call me biased, but in my opinion my hometown, the City of Brotherly Love, was the only choice for the 2016 DNC. Philadelphia boasts the most historic square mile in the country, and I am extremely excited for the DNC to experience this city, which truly is the birthplace of America. Nowhere else can you find so many potent symbols of our democracy: the Liberty Bell – which proclaims freedom despite its mute ring, the President’s House – which humbly housed our first two presidents, Carpenters’ hall – where a dozen colonies agreed to boycott British imports and defy an empire, and Betsy Ross’ house – where the tapestry of our flag was first woven and unified thirteen colonies under a single banner. All of them, only here in the City of Brotherly Love. It is here that dreamers, inventors, and patriots infused our Constitution with the revolutionary language and values that have resonated around the world and throughout history. “ “Our enviable history extends to the present, and it also includes many contemporary cultural icons identified across the globe. Cheesesteaks, “Wit’ Wiz”, the Rocky steps, Love Park, the Schuylkill River, pretzels, Boat House Row, Water ice, more pretzels. It is the mixture of the great things that makes Philly Philly. Today is a great day for Philadelphia, and 2016 is going to be a great year for us all.”
02.10.2015	Statement from Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-PA-13) on the crisis in Ukraine: “There is no question that Russian troops are terrorizing Ukrainian citizens, and Ukraine should defend itself against those obvious occupation attempts. The best options include both economic and lethal defensive assistance.” “In 2014, Congress gave President Obama the authority to offer both economic and lethal defensive assistance with the Ukraine Freedom Support Act and I join my Democratic and Republican colleagues in urging the President to take these crucial steps. Now is the time to use that authority.” “We also have to keep in mind that a stable and prosperous Ukrainian economy is essential for the future of Ukrainian democracy. The President has pledged up to $2 billion in loan guarantees to Ukraine and his budget added $100 million in aid over the last year alone. Providing economic assistance today is a smart investment and it will provide Ukraine and Europe with security and prosperity for years to come. “
01.26.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Brendan Boyle (D-P-13) has joined Congressman Patrick Meehan (R-PA-07) in asking for answers from Secretary of the Navy Ray Mabus about the delay of a Navy study stalling redevelopment of the former Willow Grove Naval Air Station in Horsham, Montgomery County. The Congressmen sent a joint letter today directly to Secretary Mabus. “We write to you today concerned about delays in the redevelopment of the former Willow Grove Naval Air Station,” wrote Reps. Meehan and Boyle. “A December 2012 Navy report estimated that this project will generate 10,000 jobs in Horsham Township. But for the past eight years, the township’s redevelopment plans have been stalled by long-delayed reviews and studies “ “The most recent delay in the development project is due to a Navy environmental impact statement that was originally slated for completion in early 2014….The Navy, however, has grossly missed its target date for the completion of the study,” the letter continued. We respectfully request that the Navy fully complete its environmental impact statement as soon as possible. Immediate implementation of this project will bring jobs, economic opportunity and growth to residents of our Congressional districts. Importantly it will give township leaders and resident reassurance that, nearly a decade later, their goals for this property will be realized.” The full text of the letter is reproduced below: The Hon. Ray MabusSecretary of the Navy100 Navy PentagonWashington, DC 20350-1000 We write to you today concerned about delays in the redevelopment of the former Willow Grove Naval Air Station in Horsham Township, Montgomery County. The Horsham Land Redevelopment project calls for the construction of 1,486 residential units. New residents will enjoy a new office park, golf course, aviation museum, middle school and town center. A December 2012 Navy report estimated that this project will generate 10,000 jobs in Horsham Township. But for the past eight years, the township’s redevelopment plans have been stalled by long-delayed reviews and studies. The most recent delay in the development project is due to a Navy environmental impact statement that was originally slated for completion in early 2014. It is critical that we ensure the land’s redevelopment is completed safely. The Navy, however, has grossly missed its target date for the completion of the study. It is imperative that the Navy complete its review so the community can finally break ground on the redevelopment project. We respectfully request that the Navy fully complete its environmental impact statement as soon as possible. Immediate implementation of this project will bring jobs, economic opportunity and growth to residents of our congressional districts. Importantly it will give township leaders and residents reassurance that, nearly a decade later, their goals for this property will be realized. Please inform us as to what can be done to expedite this process. Thank you for your attention to our request. Sincerely, Patrick MeehanMember of Congress Brendan BoyleMember of Congress
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Brendan Boyle was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Brendan Boyle was elected to serve as representative of Pennsylvania’s 13th Congressional District. Representative Brendan Boyle was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
