10.10.2018	Congressman Blum recently cosponsored H.Res.1026 to express the sense of the House that Medicare and Social Security must be protected for current enrollees and preserved for future generations. Rep. Blum commented, "Growing up, my mother was dependent on Social Security survivor benefits to put food on the table after my father passed— I personally understand the importance and necessity of these benefits. Iowans have worked hard and paid into the Social Security system with the expectation that these funds will be available upon retirement. Both parties in Congress must work together to enact responsible long-term reforms that will protect both current and future retirees- and this bill confirms my commitment to do so." ###
10.09.2018	Rep. Blum issued the following statement in regard to President Trump’s announcement to allow year-round E15 sales: “I applaud President Trump’s decision to continue E15 sales into the summer months. After discussing with him the benefits of this decision during his recent visit to Dubuque, I have no doubt he is looking out for the best interests of our farmers.” ###
10.05.2018	After hosting an extremely productive Opioid Conference this past July focused on law enforcement efforts, Rep. Blum is planning a second conference on October 17th in Waterloo-- this time focused on health care. The conference will be held on October 17, 2018 from 5-7PM at the Iowa Veterans Museum (503 South Street) in Waterloo and will feature a legislative update from Rep. Blum, Keynote Speaker Ann Saba, MPH, Communications and Research Specialist, Injury Prevention and Research Center, University of Iowa, and a panel of area health professionals. This year, Congress has passed over 60 opioid bills. Last week, the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) awarded over $1 billion in grants to combat the opioid crisis. This funding includes specific grants to Cedar Rapids ($285,000) and Dubuque ($198,250) through the Expanding Access to Quality Substance Use Disorder and Mental Health Services (SUD-MH) awards. The SUD-MH awards support health centers in implementing and advancing evidence-based strategies that best meet the substance use disorder and mental health needs of the populations they serve. Congressman Blum commented, “In addition to the millions of Americans dealing with an ongoing opioid addiction, there were 314 deaths in the state of Iowa caused by opioid overdose in 2016. I have worked with my Democrat and Republican colleagues in Washington, D.C. to pass legislation that activates assistance from the federal level. Still, there is more that we can do, and I will be hosting my second Opioid Drug Conference on October 17th to identify potential solutions and discuss the issue on a community level.” To RSVP for the Opioid Drug Conference, visit: www.blum.house.gov/ConferenceRSVP ###
10.03.2018	Congressman Rod Blum and his colleague, Rep. Judy Chu (D-CA), introduced H.R. 6980, the Breast Cancer Patient Equity Act to expand Medicare coverage to include custom breast prosthesis as an option for women recovering from mastectomy surgery. After a woman undergoes a mastectomy, Medicare will only cover breast reconstruction surgery and off-the-shelf breast prosthetics. Many women are not eligible to undergo an additional surgery for reconstruction and off-the-shelf prosthetics may not match a woman’s color or shape. The Breast Cancer Patient Equity Act requires Medicare to provide coverage for custom fabricated breast prostheses for women who have undergone a mastectomy. The custom prosthesis is formed to match the contour of the woman’s chest wall and skin tone, and is more similar to her actual breasts than the off-the-shelf prosthesis. For women whom do not want reconstructive surgery, which is covered by Medicare, custom breast prostheses provide an additional, less costly alternative. Rep. Blum commented, “I am proud to introduce this bipartisan bill with my colleague Democrat Rep. Chu to provide women with coverage of more options following a mastectomy. As breast cancer rates continue to rise and we work towards finding a cure, it is important to help the women who are fighting this battle and ensure they have options following this life-changing procedure.” ###
10.02.2018	The entire Iowa delegation, led by Congressman Blum, wrote to President Donald Trump in support of Governor Kim Reynolds’ appeal of the Administration’s decision denying Individual Assistance under FEMA for Marshall and Polk counties. The letter was signed by Sens. Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst and Reps. Rod Blum, Dave Loebsack, David Young, and Steve King “As the Governor points out in the letter of appeal, “Damage from the July 19, 2018 tornadoes occurred over multiple counties in Iowa, however greater than 99 percent of damages and impacts to individuals occurred within a concentrated geographic area within the city of Marshalltown. This more concentrated area contains the majority of low-to-moderate-income housing within the community as well as many of the major companies that employ these people.” It is our understanding that the majority of those families and businesses impacted by the tornado are struggling to recover. We are aware of the subjectivity and complex calculations that go into granting Individual Assistance. Therefore, we ask you to look at the federal assistance that is vitally needed for long-term recovery in Iowa and ask that this appeal receive all due consideration.” On August 17, 2018, the Iowa delegation urged Trump to grant Reynolds’ request for federal disaster assistance for five Iowa counties. On September 13, 2018, that request was approved. The delegation also requested assistance through the FEMA Individual Assistance Program, for the two counties of Marshall and Polk. On September 14, 2018, FEMA denied the request for Individual Assistance. On September 28, Reynolds wrote to the Administration to appeal the decision. September 28, 2018 The Honorable Donald J. Trump President of the United States of America The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We strongly support the request of the Governor of Iowa, Kim Reynolds, to appeal the decision of September 14, 2018, denying Individual Assistance under FEMA-4392-DR for Marshall and Polk counties. As the Governor points out in the letter of appeal, “Damage from the July 19, 2018 tornadoes occurred over multiple counties in Iowa, however greater than 99 percent of damages and impacts to individuals occurred within a concentrated geographic area within the city of Marshalltown. This more concentrated area contains the majority of low-to-moderate-income housing within the community as well as many of the major companies that employ these people.” It is our understanding that the majority of those families and businesses impacted by the tornado are struggling to recover. We are aware of the subjectivity and complex calculations that go into granting Individual Assistance. Therefore, we ask you to look at the federal assistance that is vitally needed for long-term recovery in Iowa and ask that this appeal receive all due consideration. Thank you for your time and prompt consideration of this appeal. Sincerely, View the full letter here. ###
10.01.2018	WASHINGTON-- After months of negotiations between Canada and Mexico on a trade deal to replace the North America Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), President Trump has announced the "United States Mexico Canada Agreement" has been finalized and will be sent to Congress for approval. Congressman Blum commented, "President Trump promised our country he would do the tough thing politically and renegotiate our trade deals that were not favorable to us and he is delivering. With Canada and Mexico as Iowa's #1 and #2 trading partners*, this new trade agreement is good news for Iowa -- and for farmers, manufacturers, and agribusinesses throughout the country. I look forward to reviewing the specifics of this trade deal in the near future and so far, see no reason why I wouldn't vote yes on the President's proposal. Eastern Iowa knows that I am a relentless advocate in making sure our interests are represented; the patience we have demonstrated will pay dividends for our industries and family farms as trade deals are made more favorable to our interests.” *https://www.census.gov/foreign-trade/statistics/state/data/ia.html#ctry ###
09.27.2018	The staff of Congressman Rod Blum will be visiting high schools throughout Iowa's First District with representatives from U.S. Military Service Academies to answer questions and provide information for the application process. MONDAY, OCTOBER 1ST: LINN-MAR HIGH SCHOOL @ 11:30AM-1:45PM TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2ND: MT. VERNON HIGH SCHOOL @ 1:00PM-2:00PM WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3RD: JEFFERSON HIGH SCHOOL @ 9:00AM-10:00AM WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3RD: CENTER-POINT URBANA HIGH SCHOOL @ 11:30AM-12:30PM THURSDAY, OCTOBER 4TH: PRAIRIE HIGH SCHOOL @ 11:40AM-1:00PM FRIDAY, OCTOBER 5TH: STEPHEN HEMPSTEAD HIGH SCHOOL @ 9:00AM-10:00AM Students can RSVP and learn more at www.blum.house.gov/Nomination_RSVP. ###
09.26.2018	On Wednesday, September 26, 2018, Congressman Rod Blum and nine of his colleagues introduced H.R. 6898, the Maintaining Protections for Patients with Pre-Existing Conditions Act of 2018, led by Representative Steve Knight. Currently, twenty states are filing a lawsuit in federal court arguing that the entirety of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) is unconstitutional. If these suits are to succeed, there is a risk that patients with pre-existing conditions would be stripped of certain protections afforded by the ACA. The Maintaining Protections for Patients with Pre-existing Conditions Act would duplicate statutes for pre-existing conditions protections in federal law by amending the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) so they remain operative in the event the ACA is struck down in court. Specifically, H.R. 6898 prohibits risk-rating, coverage denial, or exclusions or limitations of coverage to patients based on pre-existing conditions or any other health factor, including health status, medical condition, claims experience, medical history, genetic information, and disability. This bill maintains current law allowances for premium rate variations based on age, tobacco use, and area of residence. Original cosponsors of H.R. 6898 include Rep. Bull Huizenga (R-MI), Rep. John Curtis (R-UT), Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA), Rep. Mimi Walters (R-CA), Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO), Rep. David Valadao (R-CA), Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), and Rep. Bruce Poliquin (R-ME). Congressman Blum commented, “As we move forward towards reforms to expand health care options and make coverage more affordable, I am committed to ensuring those with pre-existing conditions are protected.” "As premiums, drug costs, and other health costs continue to rise, it's clear to me that the status quo is unsustainable and our healthcare system must be reformed," said Rep. Knight "However, fundamental disagreements with many parts of the ACA should not blind us from realizing that the law did take certain steps in the right direction in specific areas, particularly in protecting patients with pre-existing conditions and ensuring people won't be denied coverage because of their health status. A genetic condition, cancer, or other unavoidable situation should not bar an individual from receiving health insurance or treatment that they would otherwise have had access to. A central principle we must adhere to while addressing healthcare policy is increasing competition and choices for patients to drive costs down and quality of care up. At the same time, we should keep in place the insurance protections that patients with any and all health conditions have relied on for the past several years. I'd like to thank my colleagues for joining me in introducing this important piece of legislation." ###
09.25.2018	DUBUQUE- Congressman Blum presented two sets of military medals requested through his office, as part of constituent services provided to every Iowan in the First District. Mr. Daryl Griffith was presented with medals from his U.S. Army service during Vietnam. Medals Received: Good Conduct Medal Marksman Badge with Carbine Bar with Rifle Bar Korea Defense Service Medal Additionally, Mary Jo Kircher received medals on behalf of her brother (deceased) Robert Leo Headley Jr. Although Mr. Headley is no longer alive, these medals were presented to Ms. Kircher to honor her brother's service in the Air Force and remind Ms. Kircher of our country's appreciation and respect for the sacrifices her brother made during Vietnam. Medals Received: Air Force Good Conduct Medal National Defense Service Medal Vietnam Service Medal Republic of Vietnam Campaign Medal To request medals or military documents, contact the Office of Congressman Rod Blum through the website at www.Blum.House.Gov or call the Cedar Falls office at (319) 266-6925. ###
09.12.2018	President Trump granted a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of Iowa triggering the release of Federal funds to help communities recover from Severe Storms and Tornadoes that occurred July 19, 2018. Congressman Blum and the entire Iowa delegation have been working in Washington, D.C. and Iowa to ensure these funds were granted to help in recovery efforts for Marshall County, and all counties impacted. Timeline: July 19, 2018: Marshall County sustains damages from tornadoes and storms. July 20, 2018: Governor Reynolds issues a state disaster proclamation. July 20, 2018: Congressman Blum visits Marshalltown to meet with Iowa Veterans Home Commandant Timon Oujiri, Governor Reynolds, Marshalltown Mayor James Lowrance, and constituents directly impacted by the storm. August 17, 2018: Governor Reynolds requests a Presidential Disaster Declaration for five counties, including Marshall County. August 17, 2018: Senator Grassley, Senator Ernst, and Congressman Blum send a letter to President Trump supporting Governor Reynold's request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration. August 21, 2018: Congressman Blum visits Marshalltown to meet with constituents impacted by the tornado and hoping to receive funds through the Individual Assistance Grant Program to rebuild. September 7, 2018: Congressman Blum sends a letter to President Trump, again requesting federal funds awarded to Marshall County. September 12, 2018: President Donald J. Trump grants a Major Disaster Declaration for the State of Iowa triggering the release of Federal funds to help communities recover from Severe Storms and Tornadoes that occurred July 19, 2018. Congressman Blum commented, "It has been inspiring, but not surprising, to watch the community, State of Iowa, and federal representatives spring to action in the efforts to rebuild after this tremendous storm and tornado. These funds are great news for Marshall County, and I look forward to more positive news on individual assistance grants to help out people like Navy Veteran Laural who's home was nearly destroyed by the tornado." According to FEMA, Public Assistance (PA) is FEMA's largest grant program providing funds to assist communities responding to and recovering from major disasters or emergencies declared by the President. The program provides emergency assistance to save lives and protect property and assists with permanently restoring community infrastructure affected by a federally declared incident. ###
09.11.2018	Congressman Blum authored a letter to President Trump requesting federal aid to Marshall County to assist in recovery efforts following the storms and tornadoes this past July. The full letter is below and can be found on Congressman Blum's website here. ###
08.30.2018	Representatives Rod Blum (R-IA-01) and Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-DE-AL) introduced H.R. 6677, the Clean Slate Act – a bipartisan, first-in-the-nation bill that provides a second chance to reformed non-violent drug offenders who face lifelong barriers that hinder opportunities in employment, housing, and education. According to estimates from the Center for American Progress, roughly 9 in 10 employers, 4 in 5 landlords, and 3 in 5 colleges use background check systems, which can result in a minor record or arrest leading to a life sentence of poverty. By automatically sealing the records of non-violent offenders who have paid their debt to society, this bill will help employers fill the over 6.8 million unfilled jobs in the United States, boost our economy by as much as $87 billion per year, and create opportunities for returning citizens to earn a shot at a happy, healthy, and productive life. Congressman Blum commented, “Our criminal justice system is in need of reform. Of the 2.3 million estimate of people incarcerated in the U.S., over 1.4 million are serving sentences for non-violent offenses. Data shows that over 76% of released inmates have found it difficult or near impossible to find work after serving their sentence. The issue is cyclical- if we do not remove barriers and create opportunities for these individuals to re-enter society, we are setting them up to fail. Statistically, these individuals are more likely to fall into habitual crime and end up incarcerated once again without jobs and a support system. I am proud to be introducing the bipartisan Clean Slate Act with my colleague, Representative Blunt Rochester. This bill is a common-sense reform that allows for those who have served their prison sentence for any non-violent and non-sexual offense to have their records sealed, upon petition, so they may re-enter the workforce and become productive members of society. I believe these individuals deserve a clean slate if they meet the requirements we have outlined in this bill, and I am proud to be a part of this critical prison reform effort.” “I am honored to introduce this bipartisan legislation, alongside Congressman Blum, because the Clean Slate Act, if enacted, will have a positive impact on millions of families – building a brighter tomorrow that boosts our economy and reforms our out-of-date criminal justice system. It is my sincere hope that this bill will kickstart conversations about Clean Slate and galvanize citizens to press for change in all fifty states,” added Rep. Blunt Rochester. FreedomWorks Vice President of Legislative Affairs Jason Pye added, "We thank Reps. Blunt Rochester and Blum for introducing federal ‘clean slate’ legislation. It is no surprise that policies streamlining record sealing have garnered so much attention and support across the country. Congress often lags far behind the states on criminal justice issues. In this case, the introduction of this bill follows Pennsylvania’s enactment of the first state-level clean slate bill. This innovative approach will aid reentry, bolster the workforce, and reduce crime rates, making communities safer and more prosperous." Specifically, the Clean Slate Act would: Automatically seal a person’s federal record if they have been convicted of a nonviolent offense under section 404 of the Controlled Substances Act (this would include misdemeanor drug crimes like simple possession) and any federal nonviolent offense involving marijuana. Allow individuals to petition the United States Courts to seal records for nonviolent offenses that are not automatically sealed. Currently, there is no system in place to allow individuals to have their record sealed at the federal level unless there is intervention from the President of the United States. Direct the Administrative Office of the United States Courts to create a universal form, available over the internet and in paper form, that an individual may use to file a sealing petition. Create a two-year window for individuals to re-petition the court if their initial request was denied. The Clean Slate Act will also help to reverse the long-term societal barriers and consequences created by U.S. drug enforcement policy over the past 40 years, while at the same time boost our economy, create jobs, and provide hope to non-violent offenders who paid their debts to society. For the full legislative text, click here. ###
08.27.2018	Rep. Blum issued the following statement following the announcement of the US-Mexico Trade Agreement: "Good to hear from the White House this morning about the progress we have made with Mexico regarding trade. Mexico is one of Iowa's top trading partners so this is certainly good news for Iowa, Iowa workers, and in particular, our agriculture community. I am now looking forward to our trading partner Canada joining the negotiations." ###
08.22.2018	Rep. Blum issued the following statement following the news of Mollie Tibbetts' death: "As a father of six and with my youngest daughter a sophomore in college, my wife Karen and I cannot begin to imagine the pain being experienced by the Tibbetts family after receiving the devastating news about Mollie. Myself, my family, and the entire country mourn with you. Thank you to the thousands of people across the country who spread the word, donated money, spent time searching, and sent prayers in the efforts to find Mollie. It is now time to point our energy towards bringing Mollie justice and ensuring a tragedy like this does not happen again. May solace be found in the words of our Lord in 2 Corinthians 1:3-4: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction, with the comfort with which we ourselves are comforted by God." ###
07.23.2018	President Trump will be traveling to Dubuque, Iowa on Thursday, July 26, 2018. Rep. Blum commented, "I am looking forward to hosting President Trump in my hometown of Dubuque for a round table. President Trump was the first Republican nominee to win Dubuque County since Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1956." ###
07.20.2018	Today at 11:30AM Congressman Blum will be touring Marshalltown with Mayor Joel Greer to view areas impacted by yesterday's severe storms and tornadoes. Some of Congressman Blum's previously scheduled stops for today have be cancelled. ###
07.19.2018	Today, Congressman Rod Blum, along with Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy and Congressman Al Lawson, announced introduction of legislation to authorize the fourth White House Conference on Small Business (WHCSB). A critical piece to the success of the WHCSB is the utilization of state conferences to ensure broad and equitable representation of the very diverse small-business community. Through the state conferences, which feed into the regional conferences and then into the National Conference to be held in Washington, DC, small-business owners can develop, enhance and fully embrace the key issues facing small businesses nationwide. The White House Conference on Small Business (WHCSB) has occurred three times in the past; in 1980 under President Jimmy Carter, 1986 under President Ronald Reagan, and 1995 under President Bill Clinton. Each National Conference issued 60 policy recommendations for Congress and the Administration to consider. This new legislation, would require the WHCSB to occur no earlier than December 31, 2018 and no later than December 1, 2019. Delegates to the National Conference would include one delegate appointed by each Governor or State, one delegate appointed by each Member of the Senate, one delegate appointed by each Member of the House, additional delegates appointed from the respective state conferences, and one hundred delegates appointed by the President. This legislation would allow the Small Business Administration (SBA) to accept monetary and non-monetary resources from non-Federal sources to fully fund each of three layers of the WHCSB: state conferences, regional conferences, and the National Conference to be held in Washington, DC. Congressman Blum commented, “The White House Conference on Small Business will provide an opportunity for small businesses in all 50 states to provide input on how government can help small businesses thrive. Since President Trump is a businessman who knows that small businesses are the backbone of the economy, now is the perfect time for this legislation and I am looking forward to watching along as the conference progresses.” “Small businesses are the engine of our economy and we must provide them with a pathway to success,” said Murphy, who serves as Ranking Member of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Contracting and Workforce. “Too often, Washington legislates and regulates without sufficient understanding of how its actions impact small businesses. Our bill will give the nation’s job creators the opportunity to directly engage with the federal government so it can implement smart, informed policies that empower entrepreneurs and strengthen our economy.” Congressman Al Lawson added, “The WHCSB would allow small business representatives from around the nation to come together and engage in productive discussions on what the federal government can do to make their businesses more successful. Small businesses make our communities unique and vibrant places to live. Florida’s 5th District is home to many small businesses, including those owned by women and minorities. I am proud to support initiatives that will enable these entrepreneurs to contribute to our workforce, build our economy and reach their full potential.” ###
07.09.2018	Congressman Blum will be welcoming Vice President Pence to Cedar Rapids on Wednesday, July 11, 2018 to visit and tour Rockwell Collins. Congressman Blum commented, "Rockwell Collins is a leader in aviation and high-integrity solutions for commercial and military customers around the world-- and the largest employer in the First District. I am glad that Vice President Pence will be able to join us to see their technology first hand and meet with employees." ###
07.05.2018	Today, Congressman Rod Blum is pleased to announce that his top priority - securing federal funding for the Cedar Rapids flood wall - has come to fruition. The Army Corps of Engineers announced $117 million has been appropriated to build the needed infrastructure in Cedar Rapids. Congressman Blum commented, “As we pass the 10th Anniversary of the 2008 Cedar Rapids flood, I am pleased to inform you that we are are receiving $117 million to complete the Cedar Rapids Flood Project. I have worked hard to ensure Cedar Rapids receives the needed federal funds to secure and protect the City of Five Seasons from future flooding disasters. Since being elected to Congress, it has been my priority to secure our communities and support policies to promote economic development. Protecting Cedar Rapids from flood damage not only protects the personal property and lives of Iowans, but it also gives business owners peace of mind that their economic investments into our community will be protected.” Since his first day in Congress, Congressman Blum has been working to build relationships and market the importance of this infrastructure investment in Cedar Rapids. After facing a headwind for his first two years, Congressman Blum achieved a breakthrough with the Trump Administration, when they actively partnered with Congressman Blum and the rest of the Iowa delegation to bring real results for Iowa and, in particular, Cedar Rapids. Here are some of the highlights from Congressman Blum’s work to secure federal funding for the Cedar Rapids flood wall: Congress authorized $73 million for the Cedar Rapids Flood Control Project to help prevent future flooding. With the funding delayed, a letter was sent to the Army Corps of Engineers requesting they make the project a priority. The Corps responded with a letter indicating that they considered the project a good investment. Letter sent to the House Energy & Water Development Appropriations Subcommittee requesting that all projects from the previously passed Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) be funded in the Omnibus funding bill. Letter sent to President Obama and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) requesting funds authorized by WRRDA be included in their Fiscal Year 2017 Budget. Unfortunately, President Obama’s budget did not include the requested funding. Congressman Blum introduced a bipartisan amendment to the 2016 WRDA legislation calling for the Cedar Rapids project to be expedited by the Administration. It was approved and signed into law. The amendment made it very clear to the Administration that Congress should make this a priority. The WRDA passed the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan support. Congressman Blum met with OMB Director Mulvaney multiple times at the White House to advocate for the funding to be released for the Cedar Rapids project. Director Mulvaney has indicated he is aware of the project and agreed that the funding for these type of projects should be subject to a different cost/benefit ratio due to the lower property values and smaller size of the city. He also expressed appreciation for the high amount of local and state dollars that have already been committed to the project. In addition to meetings with Director Mulvaney, Congressman Blum held several meetings with the Army Corps of Engineers informing them of the positive impact flood protection will have on our families and small businesses in Cedar Rapids. Congressman Blum introduced an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2018 to prioritize the completion of the Cedar Rapids flood mitigation project. The amendment was adopted and passed the House. Today, it is announced Cedar Rapids will receive $117,000,000 of funding from the federal government to build the flood wall in Cedar Rapids. ###
07.05.2018	After joining his Democrat and Republican colleagues to pass 60 opioid drug bills these past few weeks, Congressman Blum is planning an event for First District constituents to contribute to finding a solution to the opioid drug crisis. The bills to address the opioid epidemic focus on encouraging non-addictive alternatives for treating pain, improving data to help at-risk patients, addressing the problem of over-prescribing, and enhancing the monitoring of prescription drugs. In addition to the legislative solutions being negotiated in Washington, D.C., Congressman Blum will be hosting an Opioid Drug Conference on July 9th, 2018 at the NICC Town Clock Business Center (700 Main Street, Dubuque, IA) from 4:30pm to 6:30PM. The event will feature Jeffery Stamm, Executive Director of the Midwest High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area, Former DEA Agent, and Author of “On Dope” and a panel including healthcare workers and law enforcement. Congressman Blum commented, “In addition to the millions of Americans dealing with an ongoing opioid addiction, there were 314 deaths in the state of Iowa caused by opioid overdose in 2016. I have worked with my Democrat and Republican colleagues in Washington, D.C. to pass legislation to address what can be helped from the federal level. Still, there is more that we can do, and I will be hosting an Opioid Drug Conference on July 9th to identify potential solutions and discuss the issue on a community level.” To RSVP for the Opioid Drug Summit, visit: www.blum.house.gov/ConferenceRSVP
07.02.2018	Congressman Blum released the following statement regarding passage of the 2018 Farm Bill: "After visiting many farms and speaking with countless producers throughout the First District, I know the importance of providing our farming communities with certainty over the next five years by passing the 2018 Farm Bill. This farm bill will provide vital programs to our farming communities in the First District, including the following provisions: Maintains a strong crop insurance program – a critical risk management program that ensures farmers can stay in business after tough years Makes needed changes to the commodity and the dairy programs to help producers struggling after a 50% decrease in farm income over the past 5 years Prioritizes conservation dollars to return the most water quality benefits without unduly competing against farmers for good rental ground Increases access to rural mental health services Encourages expansion of rural broadband infrastructure Additionally, this legislation will reform the TANF and SNAP (formerly known as Food Stamp) programs, requiring able-bodied, mentally stable, 18-59 year-old individuals to obtain a job or begin work-training to continue receiving benefits after a three-month window of unemployment. Our farmers in Iowa have the ability to feed the world -- if we remove burdensome regulations and open markets. I look forward to continuing to work with my colleagues in the House and the Administration to continue improving the landscape for our farmers." ###
06.22.2018	After cosponsoring the Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act this afternoon, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement: "As the mainstream media continues to make this a hyper-partisan issue focused around separating children from their parents, they are failing to acknowledge the fact that 10,000 out of 12,000 of these children under care of HHS were sent to this country without any of their family members-- resulting in a 325% increase in unaccompanied alien children (UAC) crossing the border over just one year. That means more and more illegal aliens are using this process as a loophole to enter the country illegally- taking up more and more resources like judges and holding centers to deal with the influx of illegal aliens. While I wholly sympathize with the experiences of these UAC as a side effect of their parents’ decision to break the law, these perverse incentives must be discontinued and I hope that our Democrat colleagues will work with us to fix these laws dating back over 20 years. In the meantime, I signed onto the Keep Families Together and Enforce the Law Act to ensure the small percentage of unaccompanied illegal children who do have families in custody are held together, and to provide funding for a 1,000 increase in beds and 225 additional immigration judges to deal with the backlog of cases." ###
05.31.2018	Congressman Rod Blum held three district events to present an outstanding student from each high school in Iowa's First District with a Congressional Merit Award to highlight their accomplishments. The first ceremony was held at the Hotel Winneshiek in Decorah to honor: Abraham Schwartz from Waukon High School Cody Mueller from Central Community School Alicia Klimesh from Turkey Valley High School Jarod Phillips from Decorah High School (not pictured) Spencer Kuhn from Riceville High School Karissa Stika from Crestwood High School Theodore Baldus from St. Angsar High School (not pictured) The second ceremony was held at the University of Dubuque Heritage Center to honor: Maeve Breslin from Wahlert Catholic High School Brent Thier from Beckman Catholic High School Jenna Springer from Hempstead High School Paige Lampe from Marquette Catholic High School Gannon O’Brien from Cascade High School Nadia Waid from Dubuque Senior High School (not pictured) Drew Daly from Western Dubuque High School The third and final award ceremony was held at the Clarion Inn University Plaza in Cedar Falls to honor: Brian Sadler from Jesup High School Jordan Trost from Waterloo West High School Kristian Heidemann from Tripoli High School Colin Beck from Denver High School Elvina Ibricic from Waterloo East High School Miranda Ulses from Columbus Catholic High School Elias Mpundu from Cedar Falls High School Rep. Blum commented, "The Congressional High School Merit Awards are awarded to students who have been nominated by their principal for demonstrating excellent academic performance and upstanding character. These honorees are incredibly bright and well-deserving of these awards; this is a wonderful opportunity to reward their hard work and spend time with the future leaders of Iowa's First District." The High School Merit Award is awarded to a graduating senior from each high school in the first district. The student selected for the award was nominated by their school, for being an outstanding student and citizen of their community. Students receiving this award have achieved a 3.5 GPA or higher, show leadership in their school and in their community, are involved in extracurricular activities, show school citizenship, volunteerism, and community service. ###
05.16.2018	This spring, high school students from across Iowa's first district submitted art pieces to the annual Congressional Art Competition. Congressman Blum held a reception at the University of Northern Iowa to recognize the winning students: 1st Place: Brie Sperfslage from Alburnett High School 2nd Place: Daniel Berdecia-Medina from Waterloo East High School Honorable Mentions: Abbigail Prucha from Alburnett High School, Madeleine Kapler from Columbus High School, and Ella Thompson from Alburnett High School Full participant list: Abbigail Prucha from Alburnett High School (Alburnett, IA) Alexis Williams from Cedar Falls High School (Cedar Falls, IA) Bailey Neighbor from Alburnett High School (Alburnett, IA) Brie Sperfslage from Alburnett High School (Alburnett, IA) Brylee Hoeppner from Northwood-Kensett High School (Northwood, IA) Daniel Williamson from Waterloo East High School (Waterloo, IA) Daniel Berdecia-Medina from Waterloo East High School (Waterloo, IA) Ella Thompson from Alburnett High School (Alburnett, IA) Elvina Ibricic from Waterloo East High School (Waterloo, IA) Gabby Weyland Alburnett High School (Alburnett, IA) Kayli Mackin from Grinnell High School (Grinnell, IA) Kelsey Vize from Hempstead High School (Dubuque, IA) Madeleine Kapler from Columbus High School (Waterloo, IA) Madison Osborn Alburnett High School (Alburnett, IA) Michael Zaky Cedar Falls High School (Cedar Falls, IA) Parker Strauss from Cedar Falls High School (Cedar Falls, IA) Sydney Green from Grinnell High School (Grinnell, IA) Congressman Blum commented, "This competition is a great way to encourage students across Iowa's first district to show off and receive recognition for their artistic abilities. Congratulations to the winner, Brie Sperfslage, and to all of the students who participated. Brie's winning art piece will be exhibited in the U.S. Capitol for one year, and will serve as a great display of the talent in Iowa's first district." Each spring, a nation-wide high school arts competition is sponsored by Members of the U.S. House of Representatives. The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent in the nation, as well as in Iowa's First District. The Congressional Art Competition is open to all high school students in the District. The over-all winner of the IA-01 competition will be displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year, along with the winning artwork from each participating district across the nation. For more details on the next Congressional Art Competition, visit www.blum.house.gov or email Alli.McGough@mail.house.gov. ###
03.23.2018	Congressman Rod Blum issued the following statement after his vote against H.R. 1625, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2018. "As a fiscal watchdog elected to Congress on the promise to rein in Washington’s out of control spending habits, this omnibus bill represents politics as usual in Washington. The text was not released until last night, effectively giving Members of Congress seven hours to read the 2,232 page bill -- the equivalent length of two Bibles. It is problematic voting on any legislation that I cannot study first in its entirety. The omnibus is not an effective way to run a government, and we must return to regular order and appropriations budgeting process to restore fiscal sanity. The House passed all 12 appropriations bills 189 days ago - we did our job. However, the Senate did not take up even one of those bills. Bad process usually leads to bad policy. With any 2,232 page bill, there are bound to be some things that I like; in fact, many that I have voted for in the past as stand-alone bills, and would vote for again in the future are in the Omnibus bill. However, by and large, this bill fails to deliver on the promises we made to the American people. This bill will not secure our southern border, continues funding Planned Parenthood and sanctuary cities, and infringes upon the 2nd Amendment rights of Americans to name but a few problems in the bill. And the most problematic part of the bill is the overall spending levels. Aside from former President Obama’s stimulus package in 2009, this is the largest discretionary spending increase in U.S. history. This bill will lead to a 1 trillion dollar deficit next year - this is unacceptable, unsustainable and not what the voters in Iowa sent me to Washington to do. That is why I joined 167 of my colleagues to vote NO on the omnibus bill." ###
03.14.2018	Today, U.S. Representatives Rod Blum (IA-01) and Brad Schneider (D-IL) introduced legislation to statutorily authorize the Boots to Business (B2B) program that helps transitioning service members start and grow small businesses. Administered through the Office of Veteran Business Development in the Small Business Administration (SBA), the B2B program offers veterans and military spouses a foundational two-day, in-person course for an introduction to business ownership which can be followed by optional online courses on topics including market research, business fundamentals, and revenue readiness. Since B2B launched in 2013, more than 20,000 service members and spouses have participated in the program. The Veteran Entrepreneurship Training Act of 2018 would authorize this program to continue under law. Congressman Blum commented, “Anything we can do to help our veterans to be successful after their service is a worthy cause. As a small business owner myself, I understand the dedication it takes to start a business, and I would love to see more of our veterans succeed in this rewarding pursuit. This bill will provide the resources for our veterans to transition into entrepreneurship and continue to be successful after the military.” “Our veterans have served our country with honor and deserve our support as they transition from military to civilian life,” said Schneider. “Many of the leadership, problem solving, and communications skills learned in the armed forces translate well to entrepreneurial success. The Boots to Business program does crucial work helping veterans start and grow small businesses, and I’m proud to work with my colleague Congressman Rod Blum on the bipartisan effort to ensure this program can continue serving veterans in our communities.” The most recent U.S. Census recorded 2.4 million veteran-owned businesses employing 5.7 million individuals. Veterans are 45 percent more likely to be self-employed than those with no military experience. The text of the legislation is available online. ###
03.08.2018	Congressman Rod Blum offered the following statement to announce his cosponsorship of H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act of 2018. The Senate version of this bill was drafted by Senator Grassley and Senator Ernst. "Keeping our children safe and protecting our constitutional rights are not mutually exclusive. First and foremost: we need to ensure that all CURRENT laws are enforced. There were multiple breakdowns in the current system that may have prevented this and other tragedies. In the case of Parkland, FL, the FBI admitted that “established protocols” were not followed, and that the shooter’s threats should have been “assessed as a potential threat to life.” In the case of the tragic Sutherland Springs shooting this past November, the shooter was a prohibited person under federal law and should have never passed the background check-- but this information was not reported to the NICS system, and therefore the background check showed no red flags. This past December, I voted to pass H.R. 38, with the “FIX NICS” (National Instant Criminal Background Check System) provisions to fix current gaps in the federal background check database. Further, this bill will update current state compliance laws, require research be conducted on bump stocks, and reauthorize both the Improvement Grant program and National Criminal History Improvement program. In order for the NICS system to effectively disqualify those who are prevented by federal law to purchase guns, it is imperative each state submits its criminal and mental health records accurately and expeditiously-- these programs will identify and resolve any gaps in this process. Also, I will be cosponsoring H.R. 4909, the STOP School Violence Act, a bipartisan bill that will provide funding for the Secure our Schools program to develop FBI school threat assessment teams, facilitate further coordination between schools and local law enforcement, train students and school personnel to identify signs and prevent violence, and implement anonymous reporting systems for students. Finally, I have suggested the use of metal detectors and armed guards at the entrance of high schools to prevent weapons from entering high schools in the first place. This past week, I announced my office budget savings of over $275,000 -- nearly enough to pay for a metal detector in every high school in my district. Every entrance to U.S. Congressional office buildings here in Washington, D.C. has a metal detector and armed guards -- I believe our children should be afforded the same protection in school that Members of Congress have in Washington." ###
03.06.2018	Today, H.R. 4043, the Whistleblower Protection Extension Act of 2017, was passed by the House of Representatives with unanimous approval. This legislation will continue the Ombudsman program to educate Federal agency employees about whistleblower protections and remedies for retaliation. Rep. Blum made the following statement on his bill on the House floor this afternoon, “Since its inception, the ombudsman program has been exceptionally successful. Whistleblowers are the front line of defense against waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government. The ombudsman program ensures rank and file employees know they have protection and support where there are cases of management retaliation. In addition, this program serves as an educational resource and has empowered employees who come forward with these reports of waste, fraud, and abuse. This benefits the country as a whole and makes the federal government more efficient.” This bipartisan legislation was introduced by Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD) on October 12, 2017. To read the full bill text, click here. ###
03.01.2018	Congressman Rod Blum has announced he will be returning 20.4% of his yearly budget to the U.S. Treasury to pay down the national debt. Each Member of Congress receives an annual budget to operate their Congressional offices. Rep. Blum has sent a letter to Speaker Ryan to request the funds go to deficit reduction. In 2016, Congressman Blum announced he underspent his previous budget by $102,000. The newest amount has nearly tripled taxpayer savings. Congressman Blum commented, “As a fiscal conservative, I do my best to save taxpayer money. I’m happy to report I will be returning $275,000+ of taxpayer money to the United States Treasury. Many career bureaucrats in Washington think that $275,000 is not a lot of money, but that is exactly the reason we are $20 trillion in debt. Further, this savings is enough to pay for a $4,500 metal detector in most of the high schools in my district. Our children should have at least the same or even better security options that we receive in the halls of Congress.” Congressman Blum announced his savings to Varney & Co. on Fox Business News yesterday; view the full clip here ###
02.26.2018	Congressman Rod Blum has announced Karter Krueger the winner of the 2017 Congressional App Challenge in Iowa’s First District. Karter attends Denver High School and submitted an app to organize data for his robotics team during their annual competitions. The Congressional App Challenge is sponsored by Members of the House of Representatives each year and is open to all high school students in Iowa’s First District. Rep Blum commented, “The Congressional App Challenge is a wonderful way for students in the First District and across the country to learn about STEM and the fast-growing field of computer science in particular. Big congratulations to Karter from Denver High School for winning the 2017 challenge and I look forward to a fresh batch of apps submitted in the next challenge.” The 2018 Congressional App Challenge is underway; new submissions will be accepted until late October 2018. To sign up for the 2018 Congressional App Challenge or to learn more, click here. To learn more about Karter’s winning app, watch his submission clip here. ###
02.19.2018	Continuing to advocate for the priorities of Iowa’s First District, Congressman Blum cosponsored a bill to remove the expiration date from the cuts to individual tax rates that are contained in the recently passed Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The Permanent Tax Cuts for Americans Act, H.R. 4886, was introduced on January 29, 2018 and has been referred to the House Committee on Ways and Means. After cosponsoring H.R. 4886, Congressman Blum commented, “I listened to my constituents during the tax bill negotiations and I fought for their priorities-- many of which we were successful in adding to the final bill; historic tax credits, medical expense deductions, and renewable wind energy credits to name a few. However, no bill is perfect and though we have seen incredible economic benefits from this bill already, there is room for improvement and I promised my constituents I would continue fighting for this particular provision to remove the expiration date on individual tax cuts. Although I am confident these tax cuts will be extended, this legislation will ensure it, and that will bring peace of mind to constituents in my district and throughout the country.” To view the letter sent to the Conferees prior to the enactment of tax reform, click here. To view the full bill text of H.R. 4886, the Permanent Tax Cuts for Americans Act, click here. ###
02.12.2018	Congressman Rod Blum has announced the submission deadline and details for the Congressional Art Competition in Iowa’s First District. This annual competition is sponsored by Members of the House of Representatives each spring and is open to all high school students in Iowa’s First District. The submission deadline is April 6, 2018. From April 23rd to May 2nd, the art submissions will be displayed in the University of Northern Iowa Art Gallery, concluding with a final reception to announce the winning art pieces. Rep. Blum commented, “This competition is a fun opportunity for students in the First District and across the country to show off and potentially receive national recognition for their artistic talent. The winning art piece from each district is displayed in the hallway that every Member of Congress walks through on his or her way to vote on the House floor. Whenever we have visitors in D.C. from the district, I always make sure to take them through that hallway and point out the piece of art representing our great district.” To sign up for the Congressional Art Competition or to learn more, visit: https://blum.house.gov/constituent-services/arts-competition.htm. ###
02.06.2018	Washington, DC – In their continued efforts to secure the previously authorized funding for the Cedar Rapids flood mitigation project, U.S. Senators Joni Ernst (R-IA), Chuck Grassley (R-IA), and U.S. Representative Rod Blum (IA-01) sent a letter to Lieutenant General of the Army Corps of Engineers Todd Semonite and Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works R.D. James requesting further information on how the Army Corps makes certain project funding decisions. In their letter, the Iowa Members of Congress again highlighted the flawed benefit-to-cost ratio (BCR) formula, which prioritizes projects in areas with higher property values and has kept projects in rural areas, such as the Cedar Rapids flood mitigation project, from receiving funding, despite two major flood events in the past decade. While the Cedar Rapids community has been able to rebuild, the lawmakers stressed that “assistance from the Corps remains vital to completing the project and protecting against another catastrophic flood event." They continued “As you are aware, the Corps has the discretion to fund projects with low BCRs if construction of the project would address a ‘significant risk to human safety.’ In the past several years, projects with BCRs below 3 have received funding through annual appropriations because of this discretion. To our knowledge, in FY 2017, the Corps funded five low BCR projects using this exception: (1) American River Watershed (Folsom Dam Modifications), CA – 2.2 BCR; (2) Santa Ana River Mainstem, CA – 2.1 BCR; (3) American River Watershed (Folsom Dam Raise), CA – 1.8 BCR; (4) Yuba River Basin, CA – 1.7 BCR; and (5) Raritan River Basin, NJ – 1.3 BCR.” The Cedar Rapids project has a BCR of 1.2. Ernst, Grassley and Blum added “As representatives of a rural, Midwestern state, we are troubled that all five of these projects are located in coastal states. We would like to know how the Corps determines which projects receive human safety exceptions.” They also reminded Semonite and James that “In recent testimony before the Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works, you both acknowledged the importance of the project and that the current BCR metrics put rural states and their cities—like Cedar Rapids—at a severe disadvantage.” This letter follows a recent meeting that Ernst and Grassley and Blum had with the Director of Office of Management and Budget, Mick Mulvaney, to discuss a path forward to ensure Iowa receives its long overdue authorized assistance for flood mitigation. Read their full letter here. ###
01.19.2018	Today, Rep. Rod Blum, Co-founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Slovak Caucus, introduced legislation to commemorate the 25th anniversary of the independence of Slovakia and the Czech Republic. Additionally, this bill reaffirms the strong alliance and friendship of the United States with the Czech Republic and Slovakia and also recognizes their contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), European Union, and United Nations. Rep. Blum made remarks on the new legislation at the Anniversary ceremony today at the Library of Congress, “It has been a pleasure to learn about the Czech Republic and Slovakia thanks to the strong connection the First District of Iowa shares through the Czech and Slovak Museum in Cedar Rapids and the many residents with roots in these countries. This bill is extremely important in highlighting the history of both the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, and I look forward to continuing to strengthen the relationship between Slovakia and our district.” Co-Founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Slovak Caucus, Representative Peter Visclosky (IN-1) commented on his co-sponsorship of this bill, “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Slovak Caucus, I am honored to offer my congratulations to the people of the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic on the 25th anniversary of their independence. I also am particularly pleased that the special relationship between the Indiana National Guard and the Armed Forces of Slovakia is approaching its 25th year of cooperation and training exchanges between our countries.” Joining Co-Chair of the Slovak Caucus Rep. Visclosky as original cosponsors of this bill were the Co-Chairs of the Czech Caucus, Representative Joe Barton (TX-6), Representative Debbie Dingell (MI-12), and Representative Jan Schakowsky (IL-9). Congressman Blum represents Iowa’s First District, which has strong cultural and economic ties with the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. It is home to the National Czech and Slovak Museum and Library, as well as a large community of Czechs and Slovaks. Members of the Indiana National Guard from Representative Visclosky’s First District, along with the rest of the state, have also been part of a long-term partnership with Slovak Armed Forces, both in training, troop exchanges, and in deployments to the Middle East.
01.18.2018	Tonight, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement about his vote FOR the Continuing Resolution to keep the Federal government open. “Tonight’s funding bill is yet another example of business as usual here in Washington DC - waiting until the final moment to act instead of planning ahead like a family or small business in Iowa would do. Having said that, the U.S. House DID plan ahead and passed all 12 spending bills over 125 days ago. However, the Senate failed to take up any of these bills through the regular order process. Additionally, I’m happy to support and see the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) extended for six years as this safety net is important to countless families across my district." Congressman Blum also voted FOR a CHIP extension earlier this Congress on November 3rd, and again on December 21st with the previous Continuing Resolution.
01.11.2018	Consistent with his record to protect the Fourth Amendment rights of his constituents, Rep. Rod Blum voted against reauthorizing the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA). As the name suggests, the program was initially enacted with the focus of gathering intelligence on foreign actors but was expanded by the USA Patriot Act in 2001 to include surveillance of U.S. citizens. Rep. Blum commented on his vote, “I respect the work of our intelligence community and law enforcement agencies to protect U.S. citizens from harm within the country and overseas, but I cannot support flagrant violations of the Fourth Amendment. I co-sponsored Congressman Amash’s proposed Amendment because I continue to be concerned about unauthorized government intrusion in private communications between U.S. citizens, and I believe this amendment would have addressed these underlying issues such as ensuring proper warrants are in place before obtaining information on U.S. citizens. Unfortunately, this amendment was not included in the final bill, and that is why I voted NO on continuing these unconstitutional surveillance practices.” In 2015, Congressman Blum voted against reauthorizing and expanding these authorities in the USA Freedom Act. In 2016 and 2017, Congressman Blum co-sponsored and voted for the Email Privacy Act, further protecting the Fourth Amendment rights of U.S. citizens. Groups in favor of Congressman Blum’s position include Indivisible, FreedomWorks, the Sunlight Foundation, ACLU, NAACP, TechFreedom, Demand Progress, Electronic Frontier Foundation, and The Cato Institute. The full text of the bill can be found here.
01.08.2018	Continuing to advocate for Draining the Swamp, Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) has introduced four new bills to add to his “Drain the Swamp” Package. Bills Introduced by Congressman Blum: Fiscal Responsibility Act (H.R. 4512) will cut the pay of Members of Congress each year the federal budget is not balanced. No longer will Members be rewarded for failing to do their job. No Golden Parachutes for Public Service Act (H.R. 4511) will prohibit former Members of Congress from lobbying Members, officers, or employees of Congress. No Congressional Vehicle Leases Act (H.R. 4510) will ensure taxpayer dollars are not used to pay for car leases over 30 days. No Congressional First Class Flights Act (H.R. 4509) to protect taxpayer dollars from being used to pay for 1st Class flight upgrades for Members of Congress. Thoroughly Investigating Retaliation Against Whistleblowers Act (H.R. 69) a bipartisan bill recently signed into law that reauthorized the Office of Special Counsel (OSC), an agency vital to preventing waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government. Bills Co-Sponsored by Congressman Blum: Original Co-Sponsor of Rep. Desantis’ H. J. Res. 6, Proposing an amendment to the Constitution of the United States to limit the number of terms that a Member of Congress may serve, limiting members of the House of Representatives to three terms and members of the Senate to two terms. Original Co-Sponsor of Rep. Desantis’ H.R. 4494, the Congressional Accountability and Hush Fund Elimination Act, to prohibit the use of public funds used to pay sexual harassment settlement claims. Original Co-Sponsor of Rep. Desantis’ H.R. 322, the End Pensions in Congress (EPIC) Act to rid taxpayer funded pensions for Members of Congress. Additionally, Congressman Blum is currently exploring legislative opportunities to tie the pay of Congressional Members to the pay of the average American. Rep Blum stated, “Legislators should feel the pressure and squeeze of the American people. As a small business owner I know first hand, if a business is losing money, employees don’t get a raise-- the same should hold true for Members of Congress.” Last fall Congressman Blum joined a United States Supreme Court hearing Gill v. Whitford amicus brief to support eliminating partisan gerrymandering to hold elected officials accountable to their district. Full text of the mentioned bills is linked above.
01.05.2018	To start off the new year, Congressman Blum will begin the “Veterans History Project” in Iowa’s First District. Working with the Library of Congress, the Veterans History Project gives veterans of all ages the opportunity to share and preserve their story. Veterans interested in recording their story can make an appointment with Rep. Blum’s office, where the individual will meet with staff, fill out informational paperwork, and sit down for a 30 minute interview prompted by questions asked by staff. The video will be compiled and sent to the Library of Congress to be preserved and viewable by current and future generations. Rep. Rod Blum commented, “This opportunity is invaluable for our veterans and their families. Imagine if this project was around during the American Revolutionary War and we could hear clips of our ancestors’ experiences fighting for our freedoms. This program will provide this for future generations and is so vital to honoring the sacrifices our veterans have made to defend our country.” Interested veterans can make an appointment to record their story by visiting https://blum.house.gov/constituent-services/veterans-history-project.htm or calling (319) 364-2288. To learn more about the Veterans History Project, visit http://www.loc.gov/vets/ Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
01.03.2018	Continuing to advocate for Main Street, Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA) and Rep. Charlie Crist (D-FL) have introduced H.R. 4424, the Access Business Credit (ABC) Act. This bill will amend the Internal Revenue Code to incentivize community banks to provide credit for small businesses. Specifically, interest received by a lender for a small business loan would be excluded from the lender’s gross income. The ABC Act will stimulate additional credit availability and job creation through the U.S. banking system with a focus on promoting small business lending. Congressman Blum stated, “It is imperative for small businesses to have access to capital to grow and this bill will make sure there are resources available to help small businesses continue to thrive. As a small business owner, I know what capital means to a growing business: more employees, better R&D, and increased possibilities.” “Small businesses are the engine that drives job creation and economic growth in our communities. Capital is their lifeblood. Making it easier for community banks to make more loans to small businesses is a smart and straightforward change – strengthening Main Street, the middle class, and our economy,” said Crist. “This is how we get things done for the American people, working together on common-sense legislation that puts the people first!” Small businesses are defined as those with fewer than 50 employees and employ 120 million people, roughly half of the nation’s private-sector workforce. Currently, small-business loans’ share of total bank loans is down 13 percentage points, while total business loans have increased 33 percent. These decreases are attributed to stricter regulatory requirements, tighter lending standards, and shrinking demand for credit and structural changes in the banking industry. To read the bill text of H.R. 4424, please visit: https://www.congress.gov/115/bills/hr4424/BILLS-115hr4424ih.pdf
12.20.2017	After listening to his constituents and the leaders of communities across his district, Congressman Blum advocated for changes and voted in support of the Final Conference Report to HR 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which passed the House of Representatives today. “Today, I cast my vote in favor of this historic bill. My criteria for tax reform has been based around these three goals: simplifying tax preparation for families, lowering taxes for middle-income workers, and reigniting our economy. While not perfect, this bill is a positive step forward, and it achieves all three of those criteria.” Rep. Blum added, “With the doubling of the standard deduction, doubling of the child tax credit, and the lowering of tax brackets for all income levels, middle-income families will see a reduction in their taxes. Letting people keep more of the money they earned is good economic policy. Career politicians in Washington tend to believe that all money is the government's money and letting people keep more of their hard earned money is “spending” that the government can’t afford. Tax cuts are not spending - rather government spending is spending. We don’t have deficits because we tax too little - in fact, tax revenues to the federal government are at all time record highs. We have deficits because we spend too much.” Addressing the federal deficit, Rep. Blum said, “I am very confident that increased economic activity will pay for this $1.5 trillion tax cut. Just as they did in the sixties and again in the eighties after the Kennedy and Reagan tax cuts - revenues to the federal government will increase.” The Congressman from the First District of Iowa also noted: “We fought hard for certain provisions to be kept or added to the conference report. Provisions such as the Federal Historic Tax Credit, continued tax-exemption for private activity bonds, the wind energy production tax credit, the Section 199 deduction for farmers and their cooperatives, the Medical Expense Deduction, and the Orphan Drug Tax Credit. Additional tax deductions maintained in this bill that we advocated for include permitting teachers to deduct classroom supplies they’ve purchased with their own money, tax-exempt 529 education savings plans, tax-deferment for 401(k)s and IRAs, the mortgage interest deduction, and the state and local tax (SALT) deduction. Keeping these provisions in our tax code is a win for Iowans.” President Trump is expected to sign it into law by Christmas. Text of the Individual Tax Bracket Expiration letter here. Text of the Medical Expense Deduction letter here. Text of the Renewable Energy, PTC, BEAT, AMT letter here. Text of the Federal Historic Tax Credit letter here. Text of the Orphan Drug Tax Credit letter here. Text of the Section 199 Deduction letter here. Text of the Private Activity Bonds letter here. Text of the Private College and University Endowments letter here. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. ### Contact: Alexah Rogge (202) 225-2911 Alexah.Rogge@mail.house.gov
12.12.2017	Continuing to advocate for whistleblower protections, Rep. Rod Blum introduced H.R. 69, the Thoroughly Investigating Retaliation Against Whistleblowers Act on January 3, 2017, with his colleagues, Rep. Mark Meadows (R-NC), Rep. Gerald Connolly (D-VA), and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD). H.R. 69, in conjunction with the Senate version, S. 582, introduced by Senator Ron Johnson, was added to the National Defense Authorization Act and signed into law by President Trump earlier this afternoon. H.R. 69 will amend the Whistleblower Protection Act of 1989 to reauthorize the Office of Special Counsel (OSC), an independent federal investigative and prosecutorial agency, to protect federal employees, former employees, and applicants for employment from prohibited personnel practices (i.e., employment-related activities that violate the merit system through discrimination, retaliation, improper hiring practices, or failure to adhere to employment law). Congressman Blum, Co-Chair of the Whistleblower Caucus, commented, “The Office of Special Counsel is a proven, important component of eliminating waste, fraud, and abuse in our federal agencies. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pass this important reauthorization.” Full bill text can be found at: https://www.congress.gov/bill/115th-congress/house-bill/69
11.30.2017	Congressman Blum has announced he is an original cosponsor of Rep. Ron Desantis’ bipartisan legislation, H.R. 4494, the Congressional Accountability and Hush Fund Elimination Act. This legislation is in response to the recent discovery of over $17 million in taxpayer dollars used to payout victims of harassment on Capitol Hill. “Constituents in my district are outraged their hard-earned tax dollars are being used to pay off the actions of sexual offenders in Congress. This legislation must pass to undo these abhorrent actions, and as soon as possible. I urge House leadership to make this bill a priority and identify those who committed these violations.” H.R. 4494 will prohibit the use of public funds used to pay sexual harassment settlement claims. The bill would also require a report from the Office of Compliance within 30 days of enactment. The report would disclose the specific amounts paid for settlements, the source of public funds, and identify the office and individual who committed the violations. In addition to being identified publicly, the perpetrators would be required to return the money from their settlement back to the U.S. Treasury, with interest. Past agreements with victims have contained non-disclosure prerequisites; H.R. 4494 would void those clauses and prevent non-disclosure in future assault procedures.
11.16.2017	Today, Congressman Rod Blum joined his colleagues to pass the House version of H.R. 1, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Congressman Blum commented, “My criteria for tax reform has always been based around these three goals: simplifying tax preparation for families, lowering taxes for the middle class, and reigniting our economy from the doldrums it's been in the last ten years. This bill achieves all three of those criteria.” The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act: Lowers individual tax rates for low and middle-income Americans Eliminates special-interest deductions Keeps charitable deductions Establishes a new Family Credit, which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit Significantly increases the standard deduction Preserves the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit Reduces the tax rate on the hard-earned business income of Main Street job creators Lowers the corporate tax rate to compete in a global economy “The Tax Cut and Jobs Act will immediately spur economic growth, and I am proud to support this bill in its current form,” said Congressman Blum. “However, like most comprehensive bills in Congress, there are pieces of this bill I am not particularly in favor of, but democratic representative government demands compromise. I will continue to fight for Historic Federal Tax Credits moving forward into the conference committee with the Senate, which have been not only an economic boon to our rural downtown Main Streets in northeast Iowa but a net positive to the United States Treasury.” For more information on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, please visit www.FairAndSimple.gop. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. ### Contact: Alexah Rogge (202) 225-2911 Alexah.Rogge@mail.house.gov
11.03.2017	Today, Congressman Rod Blum announced his 3rd annual "Women in Business Forum and Showcase" in Cedar Rapids on Tuesday, December 19th, at the Cedar Rapids Library from 4:00 PM-6:00 PM. In addition to Congressman Blum, this event will feature a keynote presenter, followed by a panel discussion led by area women business leaders. The keynote speaker and panelists will be announced in the weeks leading up to the event. The event will focus on finding solutions and raising awareness about unique issues facing women in business, particularly in the State of Iowa. In an adjacent space, local women-led businesses and organizations will showcase their products and services to attendees. "As a career small businessman myself, I know firsthand the obstacles that entrepreneurs face," said Congressman Blum. "This forum is a great opportunity to engage in a discussion about the unique challenges that women experience in the business world, and a chance to highlight the vital role women-led businesses play in our local, state, and national economy." Please RSVP to attend the forum & showcase at:http://tinyurl.com/BusinessAttendee2017 Businesses & organizations can reserve a table in the showcase at:http://tinyurl.com/BusinessShowcase2017 For more information about the Women in Business Forum & Showcase, please contact Alexah Rogge atAlexah.Rogge@mail.house.gov or 563-581-8105.
11.02.2017	The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform passed H.R. 4043, the Whistleblower Protection Extension Act of 2017. This move opens the bill up for future consideration on the House floor. Joined by his colleague, Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), Ranking Member of the Committee, Rep. Rod Blum introduced H.R. 4043 on October 12, 2017. This bipartisan legislation will repeal the sunset provision that would otherwise terminate the whistleblower ombudsman program. The ombudsman program directs agency inspectors general to designate an ombudsman to educate agency employees about whistleblower protections and remedies for retaliation. During the committee hearing, Rep. Blum spoke in favor of H.R. 4043, “As members on both sides of the aisle have made it clear at our Committee, whistleblowers are indispensable in making the federal government work more efficiently. However, too many federal employees remain unaware of the legal framework that Congress puts in place to protect whistleblowers after they come forward. With the ombudsman program, agency employees have been more empowered to make whistleblower claims. The empowerment ultimately benefits the country as a whole and makes the federal government more efficient.” “No matter how strong we make our whistleblower protection laws, they will not work if whistleblowers cannot figure out how to use them,” Cummings said. “This bill would ensure that whistleblowers have an independent lifeline in the Office of the Inspector General to help guide them through the process.” Read the full text of the bill here.
11.01.2017	Today, joined by the entire Iowa delegation as co-sponsors, Rep. Rod Blum’s legislation to restore criminal jurisdiction to the Sac & Fox Tribe passed through the House of Representatives. This bill repeals a 1948 federal statute which limits tribal criminal jurisdiction at the Sac and Fox tribe within the State of Iowa. The State of Iowa is supportive and enacted legislation in April 2016 which enables the federal government to repeal the existing law. Speaking on the House Floor today, Congressman Blum voiced his support: “With respect to the law enforcement on the Settlement today a lot has changed since 1948. Today the Tribe has a fully functional criminal justice system which includes a full time police department whose officers are certified by the State of Iowa. The Tribe maintains and employs law trained judges and a prosecutor who, together with a probation department, handle all criminal cases which arise on Tribal lands.[...] The entirety of the Meskwaki Settlement is located in Tama County, Iowa in my district. Since I came to Washington, I’ve gotten to know the Sac and Fox Tribal Council and their representatives, and was happy to first introduce this bill in 2016 after its approval by Governor Branstad.” “Today marks a major step forward in our effort to restore a piece of our sovereignty and provide better law enforcement services on our Settlement. We remain hopeful that the U.S. Senate will follow the House’s lead on this issue” said Tribal Chairman Alvin Wildcat. He further noted, “We wish to thank Congressman Rod Blum and Congressman David Young for their strong support and tireless advocacy in navigating this bill through the legislative process.” This bill awaits further consideration in the Senate, where the companion bill, S. 381, was introduced by Senator Grassley. Watch the entire floor speech by Rep. Blum here.
10.30.2017	Congressman Rod Blum (IA-01) and Congressman David McKinley (WV-01) authored a letter to Chairman Brady and Ranking Member Neal of the House Committee on Ways & Means. Signed by a bipartisan group of 32 other Members, the letter urges Committee leadership to bear in mind the importance of the Federal Historic Tax Credit (FHTC) while considering tax reform. The State of Iowa alone has experienced exceptional economic growth as a result of the FHTC. From 2002 to 2015, the FHTC invested $172 million in 232 projects across Iowa. That amount leveraged an additional $861 million of private investment, for a total investment of $1.037 billion. “The Federal Historic Tax Credit is vital in allowing communities to preserve the historic buildings and landmarks that define the character of their past, and allowing these same buildings to become the foundation for economic vitality now and in the future. In addition, this is one of the few government programs that has returned more to the Federal government than it has cost,” said Congressman Blum. “I call upon my colleagues to ensure that this tax credit is included in future tax reform legislation.” Rep. McKinley added, “Preserving the Historic Tax Credit is important as we begin updating our burdensome and outdated tax code. Since its inception in 1978, this tax credit has spurred economic activity and has directly aided in the revitalization of Main Streets and rural communities nationwide. Over 40% of the projects using this credit have been in rural communities, breathing new life into their downtowns and attracting investment.” Read the full letter to Ways & Means Leadership here. For more information on Historic Tax Credits visit: https://www.nps.gov/tps/tax-incentives.htm Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. ### For more information contact Alexah Rogge 202-225-2911 Alexah.Rogge@mail.house.gov
10.26.2017	Today, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement about his vote for House Con. Res. 71: “Today's budget resolution had its plusses and minuses as a budget, and nobody gets everything they want from government like an immediate solution to balancing the budget and getting DC's fiscal house in order. But today we took a vital step to delivering the largest tax cut in history to the middle class and reigniting our economy. I am proud to support that effort. After tax reform, we must make the hard choices necessary to secure an economic future for this country not burdened by debt." Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. ###
10.16.2017	Co-Chair of the bipartisan Whistleblowers Caucus Congressman Rod Blum (IA-01) and Ranking Member Elijah Cummings (D-MD) have introduced a bill to permanently extend the program requiring each inspector general office to have a dedicated official focused on empowering and educating whistleblowers. Under this new legislation, the Whistleblower Protection Extension Act, each inspector general office will have a designated “Whistleblower Protection Coordinator” to educate potential whistleblowers on processes and their protections. This bill will also ensure inspectors general communicate with other stakeholders to improve efficiency and additional reporting is made to Congress to increase accountability. “As Co-Chair of the House Whistleblower Caucus and as the original sponsor of H.R. 69, the Thoroughly Investigating Retaliation Against Whistleblowers Act, I am proud to continue leading the charge to protect whistleblowers by introducing a House companion bill to the new Senate legislation. The Whistleblower Ombudsman program provides the information necessary to ensure our federal employees are educated on their rights during the process of reporting waste, fraud, and abuse, and is critical to achieving greater transparency and efficiency in federal agencies,” Rep. Blum said. Ranking Member Cummings added, "Inspectors General have the expertise to help agency employees when they blow the whistle on waste, fraud, and abuse. The easier the process is for whistleblowers, the more likely they are to come forward and save the taxpayers money. In turn, when whistleblowers bring forward evidence of wrongdoing, the IGs and their staffs can investigate and root out waste and abuse." Rep. Blum and Rep. Cummings worked closely with the Senate cosponsors, Chairman Grassley, Senator Wyden, Chairman Johnson, and Ranking Member McCaskill as they introduced the Senate companion to this bill on September 27, 2017, The Whistleblower Protection Coordination Act. “It’s not always easy to figure out how to disclose waste, fraud or abuse in government when there are so many different rules governing different agencies. Empowering these Inspector General officials across the federal government will give whistleblowers a clear, confidential resource to make sure they are informed and equipped to lawfully carry out their patriotic duty to shine a light on inefficiencies or misconduct in government,” Senator Grassley said. “Whistleblowers are an essential part of uncovering waste, fraud and abuses of power,” Senator Wyden said. “This bill gives the government’s independent watchdogs—the inspectors general—the authority to help whistleblowers so these brave individuals can continue to speak out about wrongdoing in all levels of government.” “Whistleblower allegations must be swiftly and efficiently investigated, and whistleblowers need to be informed and treated fairly during this process. I am hopeful this bill will facilitate greater coordination between investigative agencies to ensure whistleblower allegations are thoroughly examined and that whistleblowers are adequately protected,” Senator Johnson said. “From identifying unnecessary spending of taxpayer dollars to revealing problems with how the VA is serving veterans, whistleblowers are often the first to alert us to issues we need to fix,” Senator McCaskill said. “I’m glad to join with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to make sure that all potential whistleblowers have someone to go to with questions and to know their rights—making it more likely they’ll come forward to expose waste, fraud, and abuse.” Last week, Congressman Blum led the floor debate to pass S. 585, the Dr. Kirkpatrick Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017. This bill honored Dr. Chris Kirkpatrick, a 38-year old VA psychologist who committed suicide after being retaliated against for blowing the whistle on the overmedication of VA patients. Rep. Blum and Ranking Member Cummings have led the charge on whistleblower issues through their leadership on the House Whistleblower Caucus and legislative efforts to protect whistleblowers and increase government transparency and efficiency. The Whistleblower Protection Extension Act continues these efforts with bipartisan, common sense legislation to prevent waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government. Full text of the legislation can be found here. Video of Congressman Blum Speaking in Support of S. 585 can be found here. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. ###
09.08.2017	Washington, DC - Today, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement about his vote for House Resolution 601: “As the Representative of Iowa’s 1st District, which has seen devastating flooding over the last decade, I absolutely agree on the critical need for additional funding to assist in mitigating and recovering from the effects of natural disasters,” said Congressman Blum. “Though I voted in favor of disaster relief, this funding should have come from a standalone relief package with spending offsets targeting waste, fraud, and abuse in the federal government. I detest the status quo process we witnessed today: a backroom political deal that combined bills of totally different intent.” Blum also added, “I voted ‘yes’ because those impacted by Hurricanes Harvey and Irma should not suffer because of the repeated failures of career politicians in Washington. For our nation to be in the fiscal position to afford vital funding for FEMA, flood walls, and hurricane recovery, we must take the hard but necessary steps to control our 20 trillion dollar debt that will be passed on to our children and grandchildren.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
07.24.2017	Washington, DC - Today Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) introduced measures to prohibit Members of Congress from using taxpayer dollars to fly first class or lease personal vehicles. Blum’s amendments to the national security appropriations bill have been submitted to the Rules Committee, which will determine whether they will get a vote by the whole House. “Americans’ hard earned tax dollars shouldn’t go towards paying for politicians to fly first class or lease personal luxury vehicles.” said Congressman Blum. “There are currently no restrictions on flying first class on the taxpayer’s dime, and Members of Congress can spend up to $1,000 of tax dollars a month leasing a luxury vehicle of their choice. This is ridiculous and needs to stop now. Being in Congress should be about public service, not enjoying perks funded by Americans’ taxes. I call on the Rules Committee to make both these amendments in order today so that the House can have an up or down vote on these common sense measures.” As Co-Chairman of the House Term Limits Caucus, Congressman Blum is a leading voice for cleaning up Washington, DC. In addition to his efforts to eliminate first class flights and personal car leases, Congressman Blum has also backed measures to eliminate the cadillac Congressional pension plan and to cut pay for Congress until the budget is balanced. Link to bipartisan first class flights amendment (co-sponsored by Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ) and Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ): http://amendments-rules.house.gov/amendments/BLUMIA_015_xml72117130746746.pdf Link to car lease amendment: http://amendments-rules.house.gov/amendments/BLUMIA_016_xml724170839313931.pdf
06.01.2017	"President Trump's decision to withdraw from the Paris Agreement is good news for our country’s economy, workers, and taxpayers. By 2035, the regulations related to the agreement would reduce our GDP by $2.5 trillion, cause a shortfall of nearly 400,000 American jobs, increase household electricity costs by 13 - 20%, and reduce incomes by more than $20,000 for the average American family of four. We need common sense regulations that keep our environment clean, but we can do that while keeping energy costs affordable and allowing our economy to create good paying jobs. And instead of sending billions in taxpayer dollars overseas we should invest that money here to develop an "all of the above" American energy policy that includes renewables like biofuels and wind." Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
05.18.2017	"It's obvious what's going on here: the mainstream media and the "resistance" movement have done everything they can do delegitimize President Trump since the day he was elected. And they like nothing more than getting Republicans to attack our own President over unproven allegations. We must stop taking the bait. There are multiple credible and ongoing investigations regarding Russian interference in our election, and I look forward to reviewing their findings. In the meantime, we should focus on the work the American people sent us here to do instead of allowing ourselves to become distracted by what is clearly an effort to undermine the President." Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
05.04.2017	“Obamacare is collapsing. In Iowa the two largest insurers have already announced their departure from the market, and the third and final insurer is on the verge of leaving as well. This could leave over 70,000 Iowans with zero options for health insurance - it's clear that something needs to be done. The AHCA will stabilize the market, lower premiums for Iowans, increase choices, reduce taxes, and protect people who have pre-existing conditions. I withheld my support - against the wishes of my own party - until changes were made to ensure that premiums would come down and that we would take care of those who need help by setting aside over $120 billion to assist citizens with pre-existing conditions. After years of higher costs, fewer choices and broken promises under Obamacare, it's time to enact a better system that actually works for Americans.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
04.27.2017	Today Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) released the following statement regarding the tax plan unveiled yesterday by the Trump Administration: “The tax plan released by President Trump this week is a strong step towards a reignited economy,” said Congressman Blum. “By lowering taxes for hardworking American families, making our business taxes competitive in the global economy, and greatly simplifying our outdated tax code, we can unleash a period of growth unseen since the Reagan years. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress to advance these ideas so we can have an American economy that creates prosperity for ALL citizens of our country.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
04.12.2017	Congressman Rod Blum (IA-01) announced today that he will host a series of four town halls for the First District of Iowa during the May Congressional recess. “I look forward to these town halls and hearing the ideas and concerns of the citizens all across our amazing district,” Blum said. Who: Congressman Rod Blum What: First District Big & Beautiful Town Halls When: May 8-11 Where: Cedar Rapids, Cedar Valley, Dubuque, Marshalltown Venues, times and details to be announced in future. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
03.24.2017	"I support the President’s decision to pull the AHCA bill today. Throughout this process, I have been consistent in stating that the main goal of any reform bill must be to make healthcare more affordable for hardworking American families. Unfortunately, the AHCA fell short of that goal, and for that reason I could not support it. I believe Congress should slow down and discuss in an open and transparent manner the best solutions to address the real problem: the unsustainably high cost of healthcare in America. I will always do what I think is right for the citizens of Eastern Iowa, not what the political class in Washington wants me to do -- even if that means standing up to my own party.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade.
02.10.2017	This week, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA), along with the three other Co-Chairs of the bipartisan House Whistleblower Protection Caucus, authored a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Minority Leader Chuck Schumer in support of Special Counsel Carolyn Lerner’s nomination to serve a second term. Ms. Lerner leads the Office of Special Counsel (OSC), the federal agency charged with protecting federal whistleblowers from retaliation. Congressman Blum, along with Co-Chairs Rep. Mike Coffman, Rep. Kathleen Rice, and Rep.Jackie Speier said: “As Co-Chairs of the House Whistleblower Protection Caucus, we believe strongly that whistleblowers are crucial to the exposure of waste, fraud, and abuse in the Federal Government. All federal employees should feel safe to report violations without fear of retaliation — which is exactly why the mission of OSC is so important. Under Ms. Lerner's leadership, OSC has increased both the number of claims it investigates and the number of cases resolved. OSC has won bipartisan praise for its work, including resolving multiple cases of retaliation against whistleblowers at the Veterans Administration, resulting in meaningful reforms meant to improve the care of our nation's veterans. We believe Ms. Lerner has earned a second term.” Read the full letter here This effort comes a month after the House recently and unanimously passed Rep. Blum’s legislation to reauthorize the Office of Special Counsel. For more on that legislation and Rep. Blum’s continued efforts to protect whistleblowers please visit: https://blum.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/drain-swamp-us-house-passes-rep-blums-whistleblower-protection-bill Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. ### Lerner OSC Nomination Letter.pdf
01.18.2017	Today Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) announced that he will chair the Small Business Committee subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade for the 115th Congress, as well as continue his role on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee for a second term. “It’s an honor to serve as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade as a new member of the Small Business Committee,” said Congressman Blum. “These issues are critical to both the 1st District and the entire State of Iowa, and I look forward to leading the subcommittee as we promote policies that will reignite our economy. I am also excited to continue my work exposing waste, fraud, and abuse within the federal government on the Oversight Committee, where I will continue to make protecting and advocating for whistleblowers a top priority of mine.” “Throughout his first term in Congress, Rod Blum has shown himself to be a true friend and advocate for small businesses in Iowa and across our nation,” said Small Business Committee Chairman Steve Chabot. “In just his few first days on the Small Business Committee, Congressman Blum has already been a great source of ideas and enthusiasm. His own small business experience makes him a great fit to lead our Agriculture, Energy and Trade Subcommittee, and we can’t wait to get to work.” The Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has legislative jurisdiction over the District of Columbia, the government procurement process, federal personnel systems, the Postal Service and other matters. The committee's primary responsibility, however, is oversight of virtually everything government does – from national security to homeland security grants, from federal workforce policies to regulatory reform and reorganization authority, from information technology procurements at individual agencies to government-wide data security standards. The House Small Business Committee was established as a permanent standing committee in 1975 to protect and assist small businesses. As such, the Committee has jurisdiction over matters related to small business financial aid, regulatory flexibility, and paperwork reduction. Additionally, the House Small Business Committee has oversight and legislative authority over the Small Business Administration (SBA) and its programs. The Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade will address policies that enhance rural economic growth, increasing America’s energy independence and ensuring that America’s small businesses can compete effectively in a global marketplace. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman from Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Oversight and Small Business Committees and chair of the Subcommittee on Agriculture, Energy, and Trade. ###
01.04.2017	Today the House of Representatives unanimously approved Congressman Rod Blum’s legislation to protect whistleblowers in the federal government by reauthorizing the Office of Special Counsel (OSC) through 2021. The Office of Special Counsel is responsible for protecting federal employees from retaliation for whistleblowing on violations of law, mismanagement of funds, abuse of authority, or other prohibited practices within the federal government. “By passing this legislation on the second day of the new Congress, the House showed we are serious about draining the swamp by protecting those with the courage to blow the whistle on abuse and mismanagement in our government,” said Congressman Blum. “Whistleblowers play a key role in cleaning up Washington and promoting good stewardship of hardworking Americans’ tax dollars, and this legislation ensures that OSC has the tools and resources it needs to do its job.” WATCH: Rep. Blum speaks in support of H.R. 69 Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. ###
12.08.2016	The House of Representatives today passed the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation (WINN) Act of 2016 that includes Congressman Rod Blum’s bipartisan amendment calling on the Administration to expedite the Cedar Rapids flood protection project that was authorized by Congress in 2014. WIIN passed with strong bipartisan support, with 360 yes votes and 61 no votes. “The successful passage of WIIN that includes our Cedar Rapids amendment is another positive step in our ongoing work to encourage the Administration to prioritize the Cedar Rapids flood protection project,” said Congressman Blum. “With two major floods in just 8 years, it is clear that this project is vital to protecting the Cedar Rapids community and I hope the Administration acts quickly to fund the project that Congress has now approved twice.” Video: Rep. Blum speaks on House floor in support of the Cedar Rapids project More information on the Blum Cedar Rapids amendment can be found here: https://blum.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/congressman-blum-introduces-measure-expedite-cedar-rapids-flood-project Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
10.21.2016	Today, Congressional Rod Blum announced he will host his second annual “Women in Business Forum and Showcase” in Cedar Rapids on Thursday, October 27th, at the Cedar Rapids Library from 11:30 A.M. – 2:00 P.M. In addition to Congressman Blum, this event will feature keynote presenter Ms. Joyce White, former general manager of the Five Flags Center in Dubuque. Ms. White also served as Chairwoman of the Dubuque Area Chamber of Commerce, Vice Chairwoman of Dubuque Greater Development Cooperation, Dubuque Chamber Ambassador, & board member of Dubuque Main Street. Ms. White’s presentation will be followed by a panel discussion led by area women business leaders. The event will focus on finding solutions and raising awareness about unique issues facing women in business, particularly in the State of Iowa. In an adjacent space, local women-led businesses will showcase their products and services to attendees. “As a career small businessman myself, I know firsthand the obstacles that entrepreneurs face,” said Congressman Blum. “This forum is a great opportunity to engage in a discussion about the unique challenges that women experience in the business world, and a chance to highlight the vital role women-led businesses play in our local, state, and national economy.” Event: Congressman Blum’s Women in Business Forum and Showcase When: Thursday October 27th, 11:30AM-2:00PM Location: Cedar Rapids Library 450 5th Ave SE Cedar Rapids, IA 52401 To attend RSVP for the event: http://tinyurl.com/BusinessForumRSVP To RSVP a women-led business: http://tinyurl.com/WomenShowcaseRSVP Press inquiries may be directed to Keegan Conway at Keegan.Conway@mail.house.gov or by calling 202-225-2911; other inquiries about this event may be directed to Alexah Rogge at Alexah.Rogge@mail.house.gov or by calling 563-581-8105. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.30.2016	Sen. Chuck Grassley, Sen. Joni Ernst, Rep. Steve King, Rep. Dave Loebsack, Rep. Rod Blum, and Rep. David Young are asking the top House and Senate committee leaders to retain Iowa projects in the final version of the Water Resources Development Act of 2016 for potential congressional consideration later this fall. The Iowa projects are: Cedar River, Cedar Rapids. The language calls for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite the completion of the authorized project for flood damage reduction and flood risk management. Cedar Rapids endured a 500-year flood in 2008 and worked with the Corps of Engineers to develop a project to address that flood risk. Congress authorized the project in the Water Resources and Reform Act of 2014. To date, no construction funds for this project have been budgeted. This provision clearly shows the intent of Congress for this project to be a priority at the Corps of Engineers. This provision was included in both the Senate and House versions of the bill. Corps levees that affect community-owned levees. The bill language says that where federally owned and operated levees increase flood risk and compromise the accreditation of community-owned local flood protection systems, it shall be the policy of the Corps of Engineers to act expeditiously with actions required to authorize, fund, identify, and implement improvements to reduce and negate negative impacts to community-owned flood protection system accreditation. Des Moines’s DM-I levee is hydraulically connected to the Red Rock Reservoir Remedial Works – Southeast Des Moines/Southwest Pleasant Hill Remedial Works (SEDM) Levee. The SEDM levee is primarily operated and maintained by the Corps of Engineers Red Rock Project Office. FEMA considers the DM-I and SEDM levees as part of the same system of flood control so it is required that SEDM be accredited in order for DM-I to be accredited. This provision instructs the Corps of Engineers to act expeditiously with all actions that impacts Des Moines’ flood protection system accreditation. This provision was included in the House version of the bill. Dubuque. The bill language calls for a study to determine the feasibility of modifying the flood protection system to increase the level of flood protection and reduce flood damages. Dubuque is actively working on addressing all of its flood protection needs. This study will assist Dubuque’s efforts by determining if additional protection or modifications are needed along the Mississippi River. This provision was included in both the Senate and House versions of the bill. A Government Accountability Office study on the Corps of Engineers’ methodology and performance metrics used to calculate benefit-cost ratios and evaluate construction projects. There are concerns with projects in Iowa, such as in Cedar Rapids, and across the country regarding the methodology used to calculate benefit-cost ratios during the feasibility study portion of construction projects. This ratio is used by the Office of Management and Budget to prioritize projects. This study will review the methodology and performance metrics used to calculate the benefit-cost ratios used by the Corps of Engineers. This provision was included in both the Senate and House versions of the bill. Upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers Comprehensive Flood Risk Management. The bill language calls for a study of the levees along the upper Mississippi and Illinois Rivers on a system-wide basis, to evaluate the flood damage risks on a system-wide rather than local basis, and justify projects on that basis. This review was recommended by the Corps of Engineers in a 2008 study and by the Secretary of the Army in a 2009 letter to Congress to address the fact that a rehabilitation of a levee at a single location often cannot be cost-justified but each location is an integral part of a levee system that provides essential flood protection benefits. This provision was included in the Senate version of the bill. The delegation letter to the leaders of the relevant committee leaders is available here.
09.30.2016	Today, Congressman Blum announced he will be hosting a “Bring Small Business Back” event in Dubuque this coming Tuesday October 4th, at 7025 Chavenelle Rd. from 3:30 P.M. – 5:00 P.M CT. Doors open at 3:00P.M. for registration. In addition to Congressman Rod Blum the event will feature Governor Terry Branstad and JCN’s President and CEO Alfredo Ortiz. The event will focus on finding solutions to the problems most commonly cited by eastern Iowa small business owners such as overregulation, over taxation, and lack of access to credit. “As a career small businessman, I know firsthand the impact that overbearing federal red tape and burdensome over taxation can have on our local economy. Working hard to promote policies that allow Iowa small businesses to create good paying jobs is one of my top priorities in Congress, and I am proud to be joined by Gov. Branstad and the Job Creators Network as we bring attention to this crucial issue,” said Congressman Blum. RSVP for the event here. Space is limited. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.29.2016	The House of Representatives has passed the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016 that includes Congressman Rod Blum’s bipartisan amendment calling on the Administration to expedite the Cedar Rapids flood protection project that was approved by Congress in 2014. WRDA passed with strong bipartisan support, with 399 yes votes and 25 no votes. “The successful passage of WRDA is another important step in our ongoing effort to encourage the Administration to prioritize the Cedar Rapids flood protection project,” said Congressman Blum. “I thank my colleagues from Iowa, Rep. Dave Loebsack and Rep. David Young, for their support of my bipartisan amendment that was included in this legislation, and look forward to continuing to work hard to ensure it remains in the final version of the bill during the conference between the House and the Senate.” VIDEO: Congressman Blum speaks in support of his amendment in the House: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCACYUrK1zFAZzKcmz9ibEAg The Cedar Rapids project was approved by Congress in 2014, however, despite Congressional approval the Obama Administration has not yet included the project in its budget. The opportunity to offer this amendment arose upon last week’s announcement that WRDA would be considered by the House this week after passing the Senate earlier this month. Since taking office in 2014, Congressman Blum has worked to secure the funding for the Cedar Rapids project, joining Rep. Loebsack in calling on the Army Corps of Engineers (July, 2015) the House Appropriations Committee (November, 2015), and President Obama and his Office of Management and Budget (February, 2016) in joint letters to release the funds approved by Congress in 2014 for this critical project. More information on the Blum amendment can be found here: https://blum.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/congressman-blum-introduces-measure-expedite-cedar-rapids-flood-project
09.28.2016	Today Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) announced that his amendment to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016 has passed the U.S. House. The amendment, also sponsored by Iowa Reps. Dave Loebsack and David Young, calls on the Administration to expedite the Cedar Rapids Flood Projection Project that was authorized by Congress in 2014. “I am grateful to my colleagues in the House for their support of my bipartisan amendment,” said Congressman Blum. “Passing this amendment sends a clear message from the U.S. House that we consider the Cedar Rapids project a top priority, and I hope the Administration acts accordingly by releasing the funding that Congress approved in 2014.” VIDEO: Congressman Blum speaks in support of his amendment in the House: http://bit.ly/2d9N9bj The Cedar Rapids project was approved by Congress in 2014, however, despite Congressional approval the Obama Administration has not yet included the project in its budget. The opportunity to offer this amendment arose upon last week’s announcement that WRDA would be considered by the House this week after passing the Senate earlier this month, and coincidentally occurs with the major flooding happening this week in Cedar Rapids. Since taking office in 2014, Congressman Blum has worked to secure the funding for the Cedar Rapids project, joining Rep. Loebsack in calling on the Army Corps of Engineers (July, 2015) the House Appropriations Committee (November, 2015), and President Obama and his Office of Management and Budget (February, 2016) in joint letters to release the funds approved by Congress in 2014 for this critical project. More information on the Blum amendment can be found here: https://blum.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/congressman-blum-introduces-measure-expedite-cedar-rapids-flood-project Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.27.2016	Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) announced that his amendment to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016 will receive a vote of the whole U.S House this week after being ruled in order by the Committee on Rules. “Securing a vote on this amendment is a step in the right direction as we continue to working to encourage the Administration to release the funding for this project,” said Congressman Blum. “I thank Reps. Loebsack and Young for their support in this process and will continue working hard to build support on both sides of the aisle for this measure.” The Cedar Rapids project was approved by Congress in 2014, however, despite Congressional approval the Obama Administration has not yet included the project in its budget. The opportunity to offer this amendment arose upon last week’s announcement that WRDA is expected to be considered by the House this week after passing the Senate earlier this month, and coincidentally occurs with the major flooding happening this week in Cedar Rapids. Since taking office in 2014, Congressman Blum has worked to secure the funding for the Cedar Rapids project, joining Rep. Loebsack in calling on the Army Corps of Engineers (July, 2015) the House Appropriations Committee (November, 2015), and President Obama and his Office of Management and Budget (February, 2016) in joint letters to release the funds approved by Congress in 2014 for this critical project. More information on the Blum amendment can be found here: https://blum.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/congressman-blum-introduces-measure-expedite-cedar-rapids-flood-project Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.26.2016	Today Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) announced that he has filed an amendment with the support of Reps. Dave Loebsack (D-IA) and David Young (R-IA) to the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2016 that calls for construction of the Cedar Rapids Flood Project to be expedited. The Cedar Rapids project was approved by Congress in 2014, however, despite Congressional approval the Obama Administration has not yet included the project in its budget. The opportunity to offer this amendment arose upon last week’s announcement that WRDA is expected to be considered by the House this week after passing the Senate earlier this month, and coincidentally occurs with the major flooding happening this week in Cedar Rapids. “Yet again, we have an opportunity to make clear to the Obama Administration that the Cedar Rapids project should be a top priority. As the current flooding situation proves, this project remains necessary to protect the community, and I will continue making the case to the administration that they should release the funding,” said Congressman Blum. “I spent the weekend working alongside Iowans to prepare for the flooding, and will continue working hard in Washington to educate my colleagues on both sides of the aisle about the Cedar Rapids project so we can pass this amendment. Passing my amendment would send a strong message to the Obama Administration that Congress feels strongly that the Cedar Rapids project should be a top priority.” Since taking office in 2014, Congressman Blum has worked to secure the funding for the Cedar Rapids project, joining Rep. Loebsack in calling on the Army Corps of Engineers (July, 2015) the House Appropriations Committee (November, 2015), and President Obama and his Office of Management and Budget (February, 2016) in joint letters to release the funds approved by Congress in 2014 for this critical project. The text of Rep. Blum’s amendment can be read by clicking here. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.23.2016	With active flooding underway in parts of Iowa and the threat of more to come, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is urging Iowans to be ready to take life-saving actions on short notice. “Additional rainfall, even in smaller amounts, when combined with an already saturated ground, could quickly lead to hazardous conditions,” said FEMA Region VII Administrator Beth Freeman. “It’s critical that Iowans prepare now to do what’s needed to be safe in the wake of current and near-term flooding, as well as other severe weather.” FEMA’s Region VII office in Kansas City, Missouri has been in regular contact with emergency management officials in Iowa as both agencies actively monitor severe weather and flooding in many parts of the state. “This flooding is a serious situation for many Iowans,” Freeman added. “We can’t stress enough how important it is for citizens to stay informed of ever-changing conditions, to follow official emergency instructions, to have an emergency plan for all members of the family, including pets, and to be ready to quickly put that plan into action.” Flooding is not unfamiliar to many Iowans but it helps to refresh on the immediate steps to stay safe: Be Informed/Know the Danger: Keep track of severe weather and flood forecasts, and take them seriously. To do that: Monitor newspaper, radio and TV reports of current and predicted weather conditions; Keep a NOAA Weather radio turned on and charged up to get alerts around the clock; Set mobile devices to alert with the latest weather information. Make it easy by downloading and using a free FEMA app, which provides real-time weather alerts from the National Weather Service for up to five locations anywhere in Iowa or the nation. The app also provides valuable safety tips to help families prepare for, and recover from, more than 20 natural and man-made hazards, including how to make a family communication plans, a customizable checklist of emergency supplies and maps of open shelters and disaster recovery centers. The app is available on the Apple App Store and on Google Play. Plan for the Worst: Severe weather can strike suddenly so have a plan to stay safe and take life-saving action if needed. The plan should include: Actions to take if it’s necessary to shelter-in-place; Where each person/pet will go to get out of danger; How each person/pet will get to a place of safety; How family and friends will communicate with one another if evacuation to or from different locations becomes necessary. For more information on creating an emergency plan, visit www.Ready.gov or www.beready.iowa.gov. Be Ready: Gather essential items in one place if evacuation is needed. Those should include: Wallets, purses, car/house keys, eyeglasses, cash, credit cards; Medicine and basic first-aid supplies; Daily living supplies for infants/young children, family members who are elderly or have access and functional needs, and pets; Important information such as numbers for bank accounts, insurance policies (health, auto and property) and credit cards; Important phone numbers of relatives, employers, schools and medical professionals such as pharmacies, physicians and veterinarians; Chargers for mobile devices; One or more changes of clothes. Include long pants, socks, boots and/or sturdy shoes; Bottled water and high-protein, non-perishable food such as a peanut butter, tuna and nuts. Talk through the emergency plan with all family members so that everyone knows what to do. If there is time, consider making a more complete emergency supply kit for homes and cars. To learn how, visit www.Ready.gov or www.beready.iowa.gov. Know What to Do: Understand severe weather terms and know what to do for each. o Watch means a specific type of threat (flooding, tornadoes) could be forming; o Warning means take action. Life/property threatening conditions are occurring or imminent. Heed emergency instructions. If told to evacuate, go immediately! Move immediately to higher ground if flash flooding is possible. Don’t wait to be told. DO NOT DRIVE THROUGH FLOOD WATER, even if you know the road. Turn around, don’t drown! Abandon mobile homes. They offer little to no protection, even if tied down. Don’t touch downed power lines or objects in contact with downed lines. Report electrical hazards, downed lines and gas leaks to the police and utility companies. Don’t re-enter damaged structures without first checking to see if they are safe. Follow FEMA online at www.twitter.com/fema, www.facebook.com/fema, and www.youtube.com/fema. Find regional updates from FEMA Region VII at www.twitter.com/femaregion7. Also, follow Administrator Craig Fugate's activities at www.twitter.com/craigatfema. The social media links provided are for reference only. FEMA does not endorse any non-government websites, companies or applications. FEMA’s mission is to support our citizens and first responders to ensure that as a nation we work together to build, sustain, and improve our capability to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate all hazards.
09.22.2016	Congressman Rod Blum today announced that he has requested that President Obama grant Governor Terry Branstad’s request for a Presidential Disaster Declaration in response to the damage caused by heavy rains and flooding in Northeast Iowa between August 23rd & 27th. “Due to the significant damage suffered by Northeast Iowa from this flooding, I fully support Governor Branstad’s decision to request immediate federal assistance as families and businesses work to recover from this disaster,” said Congressman Blum. “With six of the eight affected counties being located in the First Congressional District, I urge President Obama to act swiftly to issue a presidential declaration of a major disaster in response to this flooding.” Gov. Branstad requested funding under the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s Public Assistance Program, which is used to rebuild damaged infrastructure that may include roads, bridges, culverts and other public facilities, or to cover costs of emergency work during, and debris removal after, the storms. A joint federal, state, and local preliminary damage assessment of the eight counties found the severe weather caused an estimated $4.8 million worth of damage that could be eligible under the Public Assistance Program. From August 23-27, severe weather in NE Iowa caused significant damage to public infrastructure and private property in Allamakee, Chickasaw, Clayton, Fayette, Floyd, Howard, Mitchell, and Winneshiek counties. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.08.2016	Congressman Rod Blum and Senator Joni Ernst will host a post office renaming ceremony at the Cedar Rapids Post Office to honor the sacrifice of Sergeant First Class Terryl L. Pasker. In June of 2016, President Obama signed into law H.R. 4605 to rename the Cedar Rapids Post Office on 6th Ave SE after Sergeant First Class Terryl L. Pasker for his selfless service and sacrifice to our country. “I am grateful that President Obama signed this bipartisan legislation honoring the memory of Sergeant Pasker, and am looking forward to taking the final step in properly honoring Sergeant Pasker and the entire Pasker family," said Congressman Blum. "Renaming this postal facility after Sergeant Pasker will serve as a permanent reminder of the sacrifice he made on behalf of our country, as well as honoring all those who have served the United States in the armed forces.” “When our state and country called on him to serve, Sergeant First Class Terryl L. Pasker made the ultimate sacrifice in defense of our freedoms,” said Senator Ernst. “It has been an honor to work with the Cedar Rapids community and Representative Blum in making this dedication a reality. While we can never thank him and his family enough for their service and sacrifice , I am pleased the ‘Sergeant First Class Terryl L. Pasker Post Office’ will now be a permanent tribute to his heroism.” Sergeant First Class Pasker enlisted in the Army in 1990, and in 1995, he joined the Iowa National Guard. He first deployed to Afghanistan from 2004 to 2005, and again chose to return in 2010 with the 334th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division. He and several other Iowa Guardsmen from his unit were responsible for mentoring Afghan police and military leadership. On July 9th, 2011, Sergeant First Class Terryl L. Pasker gave his last full measure of devotion to his country when, at a checkpoint in Panjshir Province, Afghanistan, he was killed at the age of 39, only days before the end of his combat tour. He is survived by his wife, Erica; parents, Mary and David; brother, Andrew, and two sisters, Christine and Rebecca. Where: Cedar Rapids Post Office When: Saturday September 17th from 1-2PM Address: 615 6th Ave SE, Cedar Rapids, IA 52401 * In the event of rain, the ceremony will be moved to the Veterans Memorial Hall Ballroom located at 50 2nd Ave Bridge, Cedar Rapids, IA *Any inquiries should be directed to Keegan Conway at (202) 225-2911 or Keegan.Conway@mail.house.gov in Congressman Blum’s office or Brook Hougesen at (202) 224-3254 or Brook_Hougesen@ernst.senate.gov in Senator Ernst’s office. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. Joni Ernst is Iowa’s junior Senator and first female combat veteran to serve in the U.S. Senate. She serves on four Senate committees: Armed Services; Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry; Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs; and Small Business and Entrepreneurship. ###
07.08.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement upon the announcement that the Iowa Department of Transportation has been awarded $25,650,000 in Federal funding to build a full service intermodal facility in Cedar Rapids. Reps. Blum and Loebsack advocated jointly for this grant in a letter sent to Department of Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx in April of this year. “This new state of the art facility will lower transportation costs both regionally and nationally, and will help Iowa farmers and small businesses transport more goods so they can expand and grow their operations in Eastern Iowa,” said Congressman Blum. “Cedar Rapids is the ideal location to build this type of facility and I commend the Iowa DOT and the private sector partners like Alliant Energy Transportation who worked so hard to make this project a reality. Congressman Loebsack and I were privileged to provide a letter of support for this project and will continue to work together to advocate for improved infrastructure in Eastern Iowa.” The letter of support for this project sent to Secretary Foxx by Representatives Blum and Loebsack can be viewed by clicking here. More on this project from Governor Branstad’s office: The federal funds will come to the state under the newly established Fostering Advancements in Shipping and Transportation for the Long-term Achievement of National Efficiencies (FASTLANE) grant program. This program, created by the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, [which Congressman Blum voted for in 2015] is being used to fund critical freight and highway projects across the country. The grant will partially cover the $46.5 million cost of the project. Nearly $21 million of the project will be funded by private partners, led by Alliant Energy Transportation. The state of Iowa is located between freight centers in Chicago, Kansas City, and Minneapolis, yet lacks adequate intermodal service which helps facilitate easy transition of freight between different modes of transportation. The Cedar Rapids project will construct integrated facilities for a container intermodal terminal; a rail-to-truck transload facility for bulk commodities; and a cross-dock facility for consolidating and redistributing truck loads, as well as loading and unloading containers. It will provide Iowa and surrounding states with access to a high capacity, efficient, and cost-competitive facility to move goods from truck to rail and vice versa, generating significant mobility, reliability, and economic outcomes. It is expected that the project will begin construction by spring 2017. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
06.21.2016	Today the U.S. House of Representatives passed Congressman Rod Blum’s legislation, H.R. 4639, the Thoroughly Investigating Retaliation Against Whistleblowers Act, to reauthorize the Office of Special Counsel (OSC). The Office of Special Counsel is responsible for protecting federal employees from retaliation for “whistleblowing” on violations of law, mismanagement of funds, abuse of authority, or other prohibited personnel practices within the federal government. Congressman Blum’s legislation will reauthorize the OSC for an additional five years while streamlining the process by which the OSC gathers evidence from agencies that are withholding information and documents during investigations. “I thank my colleagues here in the House for their strong support of this bill today,” said Congressman Blum. “The Office of Special Counsel plays a key role in protecting federal employees who have the courage to blow the whistle on abuse and mismanagement in our government. As those employees who called attention to the mistreatment of our nation’s veterans at the Veterans Affairs hospitals know first hand, the OSC is critically important in the protection of whistleblowers from workplace retaliation. This reauthorization of the OSC is long past due, and I am encouraged by today’s strong bipartisan support for my legislation.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees.
06.13.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum’s legislation to honor a fallen Iowa Guardsman was signed into law by President Obama. H.R. 4605 will rename the Cedar Rapids Post Office on 6th Avenue after Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker, a native of the First District of Iowa who was killed in action in Afghanistan. “I am grateful that President Obama has signed this bipartisan legislation honoring the memory of Sgt. Pasker, and I thank the entire Iowa delegation for their support," said Congressman Blum. "Renaming this postal facility after Sgt. Pasker will serve as a permanent reminder of the sacrifice he made on behalf of our country, as well as honoring all those who have served the United States in the armed forces. I am looking forward to completing this process this summer by holding a ceremony in Cedar Rapids that honors the life of Sgt. Pasker and the sacrifices made by the entire Pasker family.” “Our family is grateful to Congressman Blum for his work in honoring the memory of our son, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker. Naming this Post Office after Terryl ensures that his sacrifice will not be forgotten, and we thank Congressman Blum and the entire Iowa delegation for their support on this project,” said Terryl’s father David Pasker. A native of Iowa’s First District, Mr. Pasker first enlisted in the Army in 1990 and in 1995, he joined the Iowa National Guard. He first deployed to Afghanistan from 2004 to 2005 and chose to return in 2011 with the 334th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division. He and several other Iowa Guardsmen from his unit were responsible for mentoring Afghan police and military leadership. On July 9th, 2011, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker gave his last full measure of devotion to his country when, at a checkpoint in Panjshir Province, Afghanistan, he was killed at the age of 39, only days before the end of his combat tour. He is survived by his wife, Erica; parents, Mary and David; brother, Andrew, and two sisters, Christine and Rebecca. VIDEO OF CONGRESSMAN BLUM SPEAKING ON HOUSE FLOOR ABOUT H.R. 4605 Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
06.08.2016	Yesterday, H.R. 5273, the Helping Hospitals Improve Patient Care Act of 2016 passed the House of Representatives. This legislative package of a number of healthcare bills includes language from H.R. 672, the Rural Community Hospital Demonstration Extension Act of 2015 -- which Congressman Blum co-sponsored and encouraged the House Committee on Ways and Means to include in this package. The legislation provides a five year extension of the Rural Community Hospital Demonstration program, along with other provisions addressing hospital services. This program includes Grinnell Regional Medical Center along with several other hospitals throughout Iowa. “This legislation will provide much needed financial certainty for medium sized rural hospitals like Grinnell Regional Medical Center that do not qualify as a Critical Access Hospitals,” said Congressman Blum. “I believe that we must do everything we can to preserve and protect access to Medicare for Iowans who live in smaller communities and rural areas, and the extension of this bipartisan demonstration program is a step in the right direction.” “Congressman Blum has been a great advocate for this legislation and we appreciate his support. The Congressman and his team made this bill a priority and were instrumental in its passage. Medicare patients in and around Grinnell depend on Grinnell Regional Medical Center and this legislation will help secure ongoing important funding and explore better ways to provide more equitable payment for middle-sized rural hospitals like GRMC,” added Todd Linden, GRMC president. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
05.26.2016	Today, legislation renaming the Cedar Rapids, Iowa Post Office the “Sergeant First Class Terryl L. Pasker Post Office Building” in honor of fallen Iowa veteran Terryl L. Pasker passed the Senate with unanimous support. The legislation now heads to President Obama’s desk for his consideration. “I introduced this legislation to honor the sacrifice of Sgt. 1st Class Pasker and all those who have served our country in the armed forces, and I am glad to see it pass the Senate today. I am grateful to Senator Ernst and the entire Iowa delegation for their support of this measure and I urge President Obama to sign this bill into law as soon as possible. Enacting this legislation will be a lasting tribute to the life and sacrifice of Sgt. Pasker, and will serve as a permanent reminder of the courage and dedication shown by the members of our military and their families,” said Congressman Blum. “Sergeant First Class Pasker dedicated his life in service to our great state and country, and was killed in the line of duty defending our freedoms,” said Senator Ernst. “As Memorial Day approaches, I am so pleased that we are able to express our gratitude to him and his family for the sacrifices they made, and honor his heroism. I am thankful for my colleagues’ support on this measure, and encourage the President to swiftly sign it into law.” “Our family is grateful to Congressman Blum for his work in honoring the memory of our son, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker. Naming this Post Office after Terryl ensures that his sacrifice will not be forgotten, and we thank Congressman Blum and the entire Iowa delegation for their support on this project,” said Terryl’s father David Pasker. A native of Iowa’s First District, Mr. Pasker first enlisted in the Army in 1990 and in 1995, he joined the Iowa National Guard. He first deployed to Afghanistan from 2004 to 2005 and chose to return in 2011 with the 334th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division. He and several other Iowa Guardsmen from his unit were responsible for mentoring Afghan police and military leadership. On July 9th, 2011, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker gave his last full measure of devotion to his country when, at a checkpoint in Panjshir Province, Afghanistan, he was killed at the age of 39, only days before the end of his combat tour. He is survived by his wife, Erica; parents, Mary and David; brother, Andrew, and two sisters, Christine and Rebecca. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
05.24.2016	Today, the National Retail Federation announced that Representative Rod Blum has received the “Hero of Main Street” award for his support of legislation critical to the retail industry. Congressman Blum is part of a bipartisan group honored for their work to support Main Street businesses across America on of a wide range of issues. “I am honored to receive this recognition from the National Retail Federation for my work to reignite our economy and support of common sense policies that help our businesses thrive,” said Congressman Blum. “As a career small businessman I know just how difficult dealing with the federal government can be, and I will continue to be an advocate for the Main Street businesses that are the backbone of our economy." “Congressman Blum has shown through his support that he cares about retailers big and small, and values the role these businesses play in communities across the country,” NRF President and CEO Matthew Shay said. “Congressman Blum is an advocate for his thriving Main Street and to the long-term growth the retail industry -- our nation’s largest job creators and the catalyst for continued growth and opportunity for our nation’s economy.” NRF is the world’s largest retail trade association, representing discount and department stores, home goods and specialty stores, Main Street merchants, grocers, wholesalers, chain restaurants and Internet retailers from the United States and more than 45 countries. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
05.05.2016	U.S. Representatives Rod Blum (R-IA), Kathleen Rice (D-NY), Mike Coffman (R-CO) and Jackie Speier (D-CA) and today announced the formation of the bipartisan House Whistleblower Protection Caucus, an informal group of House Members dedicated to protecting the rights of whistleblowers, who often take on significant personal and professional risk in order to report improper activity in government agencies, help improve congressional oversight and transparency, and eliminate fraud, abuse and wasteful spending. The Caucus will work to build bipartisan support for strong whistleblower protections, raise awareness about retaliation against whistleblowers, and provide guidance to other House offices about how to respond to whistleblower disclosures and allegations of retaliation. The House Whistleblower Protection Caucus has been endorsed by several organizations across the political and ideological spectrum, including the Project on Government Oversight (POGO), the Government Accountability Project (GAP), the Liberty Coalition, Public Citizen, the National Taxpayers Union, the Taxpayers Protection Alliance, and the Union of Concerned Scientists Center for Science and Democracy. “I am pleased to join my colleagues Reps. Rice, Coffman, and Speier to found the bipartisan Whistleblower Protection Caucus so we can educate other members of Congress on the issue and work together to implement common sense measure that protect whistleblowers. Federal employees with the courage to blow the whistle play a key role in exposing abuse and mismanagement in our government, and this caucus will play a leading role in raising awareness about the need to support those who are willing to take a risk and report wrongdoing,” said Rep. Rod Blum. “Whistleblowers help us do our jobs more effectively. They come forward to give us the facts so that we can hold people accountable, protect tax dollars, and make our government work better for the people we serve – and they often do so knowing they may face retaliation and may be risking their careers,” said Representative Kathleen Rice. “Whatever issues may divide Democrats and Republicans in Congress, whistleblower protection must remain a bipartisan priority so that people can continue coming forward without fear of retaliation and we can continue to rely on the information they provide.” “In many cases whistleblowers are on the front lines discovering fraud and corruption and all too often risking their careers to report it. Certainly that is the case in many of the recent VA scandals,” said Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO). A Marine Corps combat veteran, Coffman serves on the House Armed Services Committee and House Veteran’s Affairs Committee, where he is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations. “We owe these men and women our gratitude and must ensure they are protected from retaliation.” “Whistleblowers are on the front lines, working to uncover waste, fraud, and abuse,” said Speier. “Throughout my career, whistleblowers have been central to my work in oversight and reform. They’ve brought to light wasteful spending, hostile workplaces, and dangerous practices from the Pentagon to the pipelines beneath our feet. We must provide them with the protections they need to work with Congress and the Inspectors General to conduct genuine oversight. I look forward to working with my colleagues to fight for strong whistleblower protections across all departments and agencies.” “Despite a period of extreme partisanship, Congress is banding together to create a foundation of support for employees committed to the truth,” said Shanna Devine, Legislative Director for the Government Accountability Project. “The House Whistleblower Protection Caucus is the latest action in a cultural sea change toward whistleblowers; since the start of the 114th Congress, more than a tenth of the Senate has joined its companion caucus.” Danielle Brian, Executive Director of the Project On Government Oversight (POGO), said: "In this charged political climate, it's encouraging to see members of Congress from both sides of the aisle come together with the aim of strengthening protections for whistleblowers. A more accountable and effective federal government is in the interest of Americans of all political stripes. I applaud Reps. Rice, Coffman, Speier, and Blum for getting the ball rolling with this important caucus and look forward to supporting their work." ###
04.28.2016	This week, Congressman Blum helped lead the charge in the House to pass the American Manufacturing Competitiveness Act of 2016 which reforms the Miscellaneous Tariff Bill process and which the House overwhelmingly voted to pass by a vote of 415 to 2. Congressman Blum is an original co sponsor of this bipartisan act that creates an open and transparent process to reduce burdensome manufacturing tariffs by permitting American businesses to apply for tariff relief on materials with no domestic source. “Our economy has been limping along for too long. This is the worst economic recovery following a recession since WWII, and because of this, wages for our working families are stagnant,” said Congressman Blum. “This bipartisan legislation is a concrete, direct example of something Congress is doing to immediately make American manufacturing more competitive. Helping our manufacturers create good paying jobs for American workers instead of moving them overseas shouldn’t be a partisan issue.” Watch Congressman Blum’s remarks on this effort from the floor of the House Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.25.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum announced that he will return over $100,000 in taxpayer money from savings in his congressional office budget from 2015. Congressman Blum is requesting that the $102,419.53 in savings be returned to the Treasury and put towards paying down the national debt. “Those of us who believe in fiscal responsibility and think that our Federal Government needs to finally balance our nation’s budget should lead by example,” said Congressman Blum. “Through common sense budgeting and planning, we were able to save $102,419.53 from our allotted operating funds in 2015 -- without sacrificing the high quality constituent services we provide to Eastern Iowans -- and I’m proud to return that money to the taxpayers of the First District today. This represents an 8% reduction in our office’s budget, and if the whole federal government followed that example we could reduce the deficit by $300 billion in just one year. To saddle our children and grandchildren with our enormous debt is unethical, immoral, and just plain wrong.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.21.2016	This week Congressman Rod Blum signed on as an original co-sponsor of the bipartisan H.J. Res 89, a constitutional amendment authored by Congressman Ron DeSantis (R-FL), which would establish equal application on Congress the laws that apply to all citizens of the United States. “Everyday Americans are tired of the Washington, DC political class living by a different set of rules than the American people must,” said Congressman Blum. “I believe that enacting this common sense constitutional amendment would be a step in the right direction towards cleaning up Washington.” "Passing laws that apply to the American people but that exempt Congress is inconsistent with the ideals of a republican form of government," said Rep. Ron DeSantis, R-Fla. "Those who serve in Washington should be part of a service culture, not part of a ruling class that lives under its own set of rules." Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.19.2016	Yesterday, Congressman Rod Blum’s legislation, H.R. 4605, to rename the Cedar Rapids Post Office on 6th Avenue the “Sergeant First Class Terryl L. Pasker Post Office Building” in honor of fallen Iowan Terryl L. Pasker, passed the U.S. House of Representatives with bipartisan support. “I introduced this legislation to honor the sacrifice of Sgt. 1st Class Pasker, and for the sake of his family I am glad to see this legislation pass the House in remembrance of Sgt. Pasker and also the sacrifice and service of all those who have served our country in the military. It takes a tremendous amount of courage to put your life on the line to protect our liberty in the Armed Forces and Sgt. Pasker did so without reservation. I thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their support, and hope to see my Senate colleagues consider this legislation in the near future so we can honor the memory of Sgt. Pasker,” said Congressman Blum. “Our family is grateful to Congressman Blum for his work in honoring the memory of our son, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker. Naming this Post Office after Terryl ensures that his sacrifice will not be forgotten, and we thank Congressman Blum and the entire Iowa delegation for their support on this project,” said Terryl’s father David Pasker. A native of Iowa’s First District, Mr. Pasker first enlisted in the Army in 1990 and in 1995, he joined the Iowa National Guard. He first deployed to Afghanistan from 2004 to 2005 and chose to return in 2011 with the 334th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division. He and several other Iowa Guardsmen from his unit were responsible for mentoring Afghan police and military leadership. On July 9th, 2011, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker gave his last full measure of devotion to his country when, at a checkpoint in Panjshir Province, Afghanistan, he was killed at the age of 39, only days before the end of his combat tour. He is survived by his wife, Erica; parents, Mary and David; brother, Andrew, and two sisters, Christine and Rebecca. VIDEO OF CONGRESSMAN BLUM SPEAKING ON HOUSE FLOOR ABOUT H.R. 4605 Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.15.2016	This week, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) joined 18 of his colleagues to introduce bipartisan legislation creating an open and transparent process for the House of Representatives to consider reducing burdensome manufacturing tariffs through Miscellaneous Tariff Bills (MTBs), while at the same time maintaining the common sense House ban on earmarks. Without MTBs, manufacturers would continue to pay higher tariffs on essential inputs that have no domestic source, undermining their competitiveness with foreign manufacturers and hurting their ability to make capital investments and create manufacturing jobs here in Iowa and across America. “This bipartisan, common sense legislation is a concrete example of what Congress can do to make American manufacturing more competitive,” said Congressman Blum. “I am especially encouraged by the bipartisan support for this new MTB process -- helping our manufacturers create good paying jobs for American workers instead of moving overseas shouldn’t be a partisan issue. I look forward to seeing this bill move through Congress and will continue to be a voice for workers and manufacturers in Iowa and across the country so we can reignite our economy.” House Ways and Means Chairman Kevin Brady added: “This bipartisan bill will empower American manufacturers to compete around the world, create new jobs at home, and grow our economy. We’ve also made sure that the new process strictly upholds our earmark ban and that the American people are involved in every step along the way. I appreciate my colleagues’ support and leadership during this process and look forward to moving this bill through our committee very soon.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
03.22.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) and Congressman Ron DeSantis (R-FL) led a special order on the Floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on the need to implement term limits for Congress. Polls show that 75% of Americans back this common sense reform, and Reps. Blum and DeSantis urged their colleagues in the House to join them in supporting term limits. “As a career small businessman, I know that in the private sector, if we don’t listen to our customers, we go out of business,” said Congressman Blum. “In Congress, our customers are the American people -- and they are strongly in favor of term limits. Recent polls show overwhelming and bipartisan support for term limits, yet Congress still has not acted. It's time we listen to our customers and pass term limits to make Congress more accountable to the people we serve. I thank Representative DeSantis for his work on term limits and look forward to continuing to work alongside him to advance this cause.” "Changing the culture of Washington requires term limits. Term limits would neuter the ruling class in DC and shift the focus of members of Congress away from staying in Washington and towards doing something in Washington. I applaud Congressman Blum for his support of term limits and thank him for speaking out on the House floor with me this evening," said Congressman DeSantis. Congressman Blum’s comments on the House Floor can be viewed here: Congressman Blum Participates In Special Order On Term Limits Congressman Blum is the Co-Chair of the bipartisan House Term Limits Caucus and has co-sponsored legislation to limit House members from serving more than three terms and Senators more than two terms. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees.
03.01.2016	Today the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform unanimously passed legislation authored by Congressman Rod Blum, H.R. 4639, the Thoroughly Investigating Retaliation Against Whistleblowers Act, to reauthorize the Office of Special Counsel (OSC). The Office of Special Counsel is responsible for protecting federal employees from retaliation for “whistleblowing” on violations of law, mismanagement of funds, abuse of authority, or other prohibited personnel practices within the federal government. Rep. Blum’s legislation would reauthorize the OSC for an additional five years while streamlining the process by which the OSC gathers evidence from agencies that are withholding information and documents during investigations. “I thank my colleagues on the Oversight & Government Reform Committee for their strong support of this bill today,” said Congressman Blum. “The Office of Special Counsel plays a key role in protecting federal employees who have the courage to blow the whistle on abuse and mismanagement in our government. As those employees who called attention to the mistreatment of veterans at the Veterans’ Affairs hospitals know first hand, the OSC is critically important to protect whistleblowers like them from potential retaliation from federal agencies. The reauthorization of the OSC is long past due, and I am encouraged by today’s strong bipartisan support for our legislation.” This legislation now awaits further consideration by the full U.S. House of Representatives. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
03.01.2016	Today, the House Committee on Oversight & Government Reform unanimously passed legislation authored by Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) which would rename a United States Post Office in Cedar Rapids, Iowa after fallen Iowan Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker. Sgt. Pasker was born in Anamosa, Iowa and served in the Iowa National Guard. He first deployed to Afghanistan from 2004 to 2005, and again chose to return in 2011 with the 334th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division. On July 9th, 2011, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker gave his last full measure of devotion to his country when, at a checkpoint in Panjshir Province, Afghanistan, he was killed at the age of 39, only days before the end of his combat tour. He is survived by his wife, Erica; parents, Mary and David; brother, Andrew, and two sisters, Christine and Rebecca. “I thank my colleagues on the Oversight & Government Reform Committee for their strong support of this bill today,” said Congressman Blum. “I introduced this legislation because of the respect and admiration I have for the sacrifice of Sgt. 1st Class Pasker, and all of the men and women who serve our nation in the armed forces. It takes a tremendous amount of courage to put your life on the line to protect our freedom and liberty, and Sgt. 1st Class Pasker did so without reservation.” “Our family is grateful to Congressman Blum for his work in honoring the memory of our son, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker. Naming this Post Office after Terryl ensures that his sacrifice will not be forgotten, and we thank Congressman Blum and the entire Iowa delegation for their support on this project,” said Terryl’s father David Pasker. This legislation now awaits further consideration by the full U.S. House of Representatives. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
02.25.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement regarding his legislation, co-sponsored by the entire Iowa Delegation to designate a post office in Cedar Rapids, Iowa as the Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker Post Office: “I introduced this legislation because of the tremendous amount of respect I have for the sacrifice of Sgt. 1st Class Pasker, and all of the men and women who serve our nation in the armed forces. It takes a tremendous amount of courage to put your life on the line to protect our freedom and liberty and Sgt. 1st Class Pasker did so without reservation,” said Congressman Blum. “Our family is grateful to Congressman Blum for his work in honoring the memory of our son, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker. Naming this Post Office after Terryl ensures that his sacrifice will not be forgotten, and we thank Congressman Blum and the entire Iowa delegation for their support on this project,” said Terryl’s father David Pasker. Mr. Pasker first enlisted in the Army in 1990, and in 1995, he joined the Iowa National Guard. He first deployed to Afghanistan from 2004 to 2005, and again chose to return in 2011 with the 334th Brigade Support Battalion, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division. He and several other Iowa Guardsmen from his unit were responsible for mentoring Afghan police and military leadership. On July 9th, 2011, Sgt. 1st Class Terryl L. Pasker gave his last full measure of devotion to his country when, at a checkpoint in Panjshir Province, Afghanistan, he was killed at the age of 39, only days before the end of his combat tour. He is survived by his wife, Erica; parents, Mary and David; brother, Andrew, and two sisters, Christine and Rebecca. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
02.05.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) announced the introduction of H.R. 4476, the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2016. This legislation would cut the pay of Congress each year the federal government fails to balance the budget. Pay for Members would be cut 5% for the first year there is a budget deficit and reduced an additional 10% for each following year of deficit spending. Upon balance, congressional pay would reset to the original levels. “As a career small businessman, I know firsthand the consequences when businesses mismanage resources. But unlike the private sector, Congress faces no penalties for failure,” said Congressman Blum. “Year after year we’ve seen the same thing: grand promises of future savings while our national debt continues to skyrocket. For the sake of our children and grandchildren who will be stuck paying off our $19 trillion debt, it’s time we make our politicians face the reality of our fiscal crisis by hitting them where it counts: their own pocketbook.” Jim Babka, President of Downsize DC, added: "Congress manages your money poorly, yet it never faces a pay cut. In what other line of work could you so totally fail, but still get a generous taxpayer funded salary? Representative Rod Blum's Fiscal Responsibility Act would provide wonderful motivation to finally balance the budget, instead of kicking the problem down the road a decade or more." Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.19.2016	This Saturday, Congressman Rod Blum will be visiting the Dubuque Veterans Freedom Center along with Senator Joni Ernst. The Senator and Congressman will meet with veterans to discuss issues that matter most to them and also discuss ways in which Congress can continue to support them. This event is open to the media who RSVP. More details can be found below. What: Senator Joni Ernst & Congressman Rod Blum Visit Dubuque Veterans Freedom Center. When: Saturday January 23rd 2:45PM Where: Dubuque Veterans Freedom Center. 2245 Kerper Blvd # 1, Dubuque, IA 52001 Any questions or RSVP’s can be directed to Keegan Conway at 202-805-3699 or via email at keegan.conway@mail.house.gov. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.13.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum voted for Senate Joint Resolution 22, introduced by Senator Joni Ernst (R-IA) and passed with bipartisan support by a vote of 253-166, to disapprove of the Environmental Protection Agency’s “Waters of the United States” rule, which expands federal authority over local waterways and tributaries owned by individuals, farms, and small businesses. “While President Obama is likely to veto this effort -- which has now passed both chambers of Congress -- this resolution offered by Senator Ernst expresses the growing bipartisan dissatisfaction with the Administration’s efforts to expand federal jurisdiction over private property,” said Congressman Blum. “We are sending a clear message to the President and the EPA that this type of executive overreach is simply not the will of the people. This rule will adversely impact the farmers, families, and small businesses of the First District of Iowa, and I will continue to stand with my constituents to push back against this harmful proposal.” Background: In 2015, Mr. Blum led a letter for the inclusion of a prohibition of funding for the WOTUS rule in the FY 2016 appropriations process. Mr. Blum also cosponsored and voted for the bipartisan H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, which would roll back the WOTUS rule and require the EPA and USACE to work with local stakeholders as well as to take additional public comment on any reissued rule. The legislation awaits further action in the Senate. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.07.2016	Today, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement regarding his vote for H.R. 1155, the Searching for and Cutting Regulations that are Unnecessarily Burdensome (SCRUB) Act, which passed the House by a vote of 245-174. “As a career small businessman, I know first hand what it’s like to operate and grow a business under the burden of excessive regulation. Instead of hiring more workers, raising wages and benefits, and investing in technology, many businesses are forced instead to divert resources towards complying with ever-increasing government red tape. It is unfortunate the federal government continues to stand in the way of our job creators.” “The SCRUB Act will remove obsolete and burdensome regulations by identifying outdated rules, streamlining and updating our regulatory system, and forcing executive agencies to repeal unnecessary regulations to offset the costs of new ones so our economy can grow. I believe America has the finest entrepreneurs and small business owners in the world, and this common sense reform will help them create opportunities for Iowans to live the American Dream.” VIDEO: Blum Participates In Floor Debate On H.R. 1155 Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
12.23.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum announced he has nominated 16 Iowa students to be considered for appointments to United States Service Academies. “It is a privilege for me to nominate these 16 students for service in the United States Military,” said Congressman Blum. “Their willingness to serve our great nation in our armed forces is truly appreciated by the entire First District and I wish them the best as they take the next step on their journey.” For more information on the process for Service Academy Nominations please visit Congressman Blum’s website. Below is a full list of the students nominated by Congressman Blum. United States Naval Academy Gabrielle Tath, St Donatus Evan Boss, Central City Finbar Berry, Cedar Rapids Andrew Segalla, Bellevue Rizwan Sidhu, Cedar Rapids John Taylor, Cedar Rapids Garrett Dunn, State Center Patrick Ramirez, State Center Daniel Holt, Marion Alexander Hepperle, West Union Joseph Zasadny, Walker Thomas Treptau, Lansing United States Military Academy Finbar Berry, Cedar Rapids Jonas Mason, Cedar Rapids Christian Flege, Waverly Garrett Dunn, State Center Patrick Ramirez, State Center Samuel Pisney, Cedar Rapids Joseph Zasadny, Walker Zachary Gilbert, Cedar Rapids United States Air Force Academy Samuel Pisney, Cedar Rapids Daniel Holt, Marion Thomas Treptau, Lansing Finbar Berry, Cedar Rapids Patrick Ramirez, State Center Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
12.18.2015	Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement about his vote against today’s $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill: “Today’s $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill was a typical Washington DC backroom deal: Republicans and Democrats “working together” to spend even more American taxpayer money. Washington special interests are thrilled by this massive spending binge while our children and grandchildren get stuck with the bill.” “When I came to Washington in January, I was named to the Budget Committee. We worked hard to produce a responsible budget that put us on the path to fiscal sanity and it passed the House, but today’s legislation completely busted that budget. Iowa families have to live within their means, but Congress sees no problem with breaking its own budget. This is exactly why so many Americans view their politicians as "out of touch”. “Further, I also voted no because the process that gave us today’s spending bill is completely broken. Negotiated behind closed doors by Congressional leadership without participation from rank and file members, the bill is over 2,000 pages long and was introduced at 1:30 AM on Wednesday, giving members of Congress less than 60 hours to analyze it and make a “take it or leave it” judgment call while under tremendous pressure to pass the bill before the holidays. This process cuts Iowans out of the business of governing, and I’m hopeful that Speaker Ryan will work hard to improve this process when we start the new legislative year in January.” “While there were certain good things in the bill I have worked hard to support in the past, like the repeal of the harmful Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) requirements on meat products and the extension of the wind and solar energy tax credits, these were not nearly enough to outweigh the negatives.” “Some of the worst aspects of the bill include: Full funding for President Obama’s plan to bring 10,000 Syrian refugees into America without a rigorous screening process. At a bare minimum the omnibus should have included the American SAFE Act, which passed the House last month with a veto-proof bipartisan majority and requires the FBI, DHS, and the Director of National Intelligence to certify that all refugees from Syria and Iraq are not a security threat to America. The safety and security of my constituents will always come first when I vote on legislation. It allows members of Congress to continue to fly first class and lease luxury cars at taxpayer expense. The bipartisan bill that I introduced along with Rep. Gwen Graham from Florida would have eliminated these abuses of taxpayer money but was not included in the omnibus. Full funding for the EPA’s burdensome “Waters of the United States” regulation that could allow the EPA to claim federal jurisdiction over 98% of Iowa land. It quadruples H2-B visas for foreign workers at a time when we have a record number of Americans who aren’t working. Before we bring more workers into our country we should focus on getting our own citizens back to work. Continues federal funding for “Sanctuary Cities” that refuse to follow our country’s immigration laws. Sanctuary cities that allow violent illegal immigrants to avoid deportation are complicit in tragedies like the murder of Kate Steinle in San Francisco and the omnibus does nothing to fix this blatant disregard for our law.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
12.17.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 2029, the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act, a permanent tax extenders package. The bill passed 318 - 109. “This legislation allows Iowans to keep more of their hard earned money while providing long term certainty for business that make the investments in new technology and infrastructure that are so important for job creation,” said Congressman Blum. “I was especially encouraged to see two of my legislative priorities -- making small business expensing (Section 179) and the Research and Development Tax Credit permanent -- included in this legislation instead of being temporarily extended at the last minute as is typically done in Washington. Iowa farmers and businesses need to know what the rules are ahead of time so they can plan for the future and make investments that create jobs for Iowans. “The bill also provides Iowa families with the certainty they deserve by making the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit permanent while also encouraging our citizens to contribute to charity by making contributions tax free. Overall, this package is an important step on the path to comprehensive tax reform and moves us closer to the goal of a tax code that will help reignite our economy and raise wages for our working families.” For more information on Congressman Blum’s previous work to make Section 179 and the R&D Tax Credit permanent please click here and here. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
12.11.2015	Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement regarding his participation in the Congressional App Challenge. “With the growing importance of jobs in Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) fields in the 21st century, it is vital that our young people are given opportunities to learn coding skills and a platform to promote their work. The Congressional App Challenge gives our high school students these opportunities while also providing a chance to interact with local high-tech employers in a variety of STEM fields. I am excited to host the Congressional App Challenge this year and look forward to seeing the entries from students across the First District.” The Congressional App Challenge runs through January 21st, 2016, challenging high school students to design and create an original app for submission. Eligible high school students in Iowa’s 1st Congressional District may enter this Challenge as individuals or groups of not more than four students and will be judged by a panel chosen by the Office of Congressman Blum. The submitted app can be on any topic, provided it is original, appropriate, and has been made within a year of January 16th, 2016. All Sign-Ups/Questions can be directed to Alexah Rogge of Congressman Blum’s Cedar Rapids Office at (319)364-2288 or Alexah.Rogge@mail.house.gov or by visiting https://www.challenge.gov/challenge/congressional-app-challenge-ia-01-rep-blum/. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
12.04.2015	Representatives Rod Blum and Dave Loebsack authored a bipartisan letter to the House Appropriations Committee encouraging the Committee to include language in the upcoming Omnibus bill for the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to expedite funding for projects authorized through the Water Resources Reform & Development Act. This would permit important projects awaiting federal funding -- like the Cedar Rapids flood mitigation efforts -- to begin receiving their authorized amount of federal funds. “Having witnessed the devastation of the flooding of the Cedar River in 2008, all of us in the First District understand the critical importance of government investment in proper flood mitigation infrastructure,” said Congressman Blum. “This story is not unique to Cedar Rapids -- other small and mid-size communities across the country have had similar experiences. With mitigation funding for many of these communities already approved by Congress, it is imperative that minimal funding levels finally be met in order to ensure the viability of projects like the Cedar Rapids flood work. I'll continue to work hard to get this project moving and I thank my colleague Rep. Loebsack for his support as well. ” “Since the Flood of 2008 destroyed much of downtown Cedar Rapids, I have been fighting to ensure these flood protection measures are put in place. It is past time that resources are made available to prevent future devastation. The people and businesses of Cedar Rapids have waited long enough. These measures are necessary for them to continue to recover and thrive.” said Congressman Loebsack. A copy of the letter can be found here: http://1.usa.gov/1YIgRoy Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
12.03.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement on his vote for S. 1177, the Every Student Succeeds Act. The legislation, which sets K-12 education policy and replaces No Child Left Behind, passed with a large bipartisan majority of 359 - 64. “This legislation represents the largest rollback of federal involvement in education in 25 years, and will better allow our local schools and parents the flexibility to implement education policies that work best for Iowa students instead of being forced to accept the mandates and requirements created by No Child Left Behind.” “Further, this bill explicitly prohibits the Federal government from coercing states to accept the Common Core standards. Individual states and local school districts will have the power to design rigorous standards that work for their students instead of being compelled to operate under one size fits all mandates like Common Core.” “I am also pleased that this legislation -- while falling short of implementing full Title 1 portability -- creates a pilot program in 50 school districts to experiment with the exciting concept of allowing funding to follow individual students. I believe strongly that school choice is a key to better public education and this is a step in the right direction.” “While I would have liked to see this legislation go even further in restoring full control to states and communities, this bill gives us a far better education system than the current status quo of federal mandates and regulations under No Child Left Behind. I look forward to continuing to advocate for even more local control and parental choice in our education system.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
11.30.2015	Today Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) announced the introduction of H.R. 3955, the Small Municipality Flood Relief Act. This legislation will give smaller towns like Waverly, Iowa the opportunity to redevelop land where the flood risk has been sufficiently mitigated and the land is no longer in the flood hazard zone. “The Small Municipality Flood Relief Act will give the City of Waverly the opportunity to reclaim over 35 residential lots in the central core of Waverly, where the community lost more than 85 homes during the flood of 2008. Waverly, with Federal and State assistance, has invested over 11 million dollars in improvement projects for flood mitigation and protection since 2008 and has completed an inflatable dam on the Cedar River which allows the dam to be lowered during flood events allowing FEMA to reduce the size of the river’s flood hazard zone. This Act will enable the City and its residents to use those residential lots in the heart of our city to build new homes rather than remain unused in perpetuity,” said Waverly Director of Community and Economic Development William Werger. “After hearing directly from towns like Waverly that are dealing with unnecessary land use restrictions put on them by the federal government, I decided to introduce this act to give communities the flexibility to make decisions about how to best use their land,” said Congressional Blum. “After the flood risk has been properly mitigated, it’s just common sense that communities be allowed to put that land to good use in a way that benefits the residents of the town. I’m glad to help communities like Waverly continue to recover from flooding and I will do everything I can to educate my colleagues in Congress about this issue so we can see the Small Municipality Flood Relief Act signed in to law.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
11.25.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum announced his efforts to highlight the importance of small businesses in our communities as part of the buildup to Small Business Saturday on November 28th. Congressman Blum signed on as an original co-sponsor of legislation officially recognizing Small Business Saturday, spoke on the House floor in support of small business across the First District, and will be visiting several small business on Saturday. “As a career small businessman myself, I understand first hand the difficulties our entrepreneurs face when starting and running a business,” said Congressman Blum. “Small business is the backbone of our economy and a place where the American Dream happens every day. In fact, 2 million of the roughly 3 million private sector jobs generated in 2014 were created by small business -- often in the face of government policies that make doing business difficult. I’m proud to to support small businesses and I encourage the citizens of the First District to join me in shopping small this Saturday.” Congressman Blum is an original cosponsor of H.Res. 534, to express Congressional support for “Small Business Saturday” and encourage holiday shoppers and consumers to support their local businesses, retailers, and restaurants that are vitally important to the U.S. economy. In addition to co-sponsoring the Small Business Saturday Resolution, the Congressman recently spoke on the House Floor to support of this coming Saturday’s “#ShopSmall” efforts. Watch the video here: Congressman Blum Speaks In Support Of Small Business This Saturday, November 28, Congressman Rod Blum will be visiting the following Small Businesses in Iowa’s 1st District: Crust Flowers On Main Graham’s River Lights Bookstore All of these visits will be open to the press. For more information about the Congressman’s specific involvement at each business and times please contact Keegan Conway at (202)225-2911 or via email keegan.conway@mail.house.gov. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
11.19.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum voted “yes” on H.R. 4038, the American SAFE Act of 2015, to pause the refugee intake from the Syrian crisis until the American government can be certain any refugees accepted from Iraq and Syria are not a security threat before granting them entrance into the United States. The legislation passed the House by a 289 - 137 vote. “Today, I joined a bipartisan, veto-proof majority of my colleagues in the House to make sure we keep America safe,” said Congressman Blum. “With the recent attacks in Paris, this bill is a common sense measure that pauses the resettlement program until the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Homeland Security and Director of National Intelligence are able to thoroughly vet any Syrian or Iraqi refugees seeking admission into our country. My chief concern will always be the safety of Iowans and all Americans, and in this situation we must err on the side of caution to protect our citizens.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
10.29.2015	Today I was proud to support my colleague and fellow Midwesterner Paul Ryan for Speaker of the House. There are serious issues with how Washington operates and after many meetings with Speaker Ryan I believe that he shares those concerns and will work hard to make the House of Representatives a place where each and every House member is heard and the American people are truly represented. I look forward to working with him to articulate a vision for our party and to tackle the many tough issues facing our country. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
10.28.2015	Today Congressman Rod Blum released the following statement about the vote in the House to suspend the debt ceiling and increase spending above the legal limits passed by Congress: This deal is exactly what is wrong with Washington, DC. Negotiated behind closed doors and presented to Congress at the last minute, this bill leaves the American people out of the process of representative government. This deal also irresponsibly eliminates the debt ceiling -- one of the critical mechanisms that protects American taxpayers -- until March of 2017. This means there will be literally no limit on what the federal government can charge to the taxpayer's credit card over the duration of the agreement. This is a dangerous step and I cannot support it: the national debt is over $18 trillion and the federal government already spends over $700 million every day on interest payments. It's high time the career politicians in Washington DC take our national debt seriously - as former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs retired Admiral Mullen said: “the most significant threat to our national security is our debt”. This agreement breaks the spending caps set by the Budget Control Act that was passed by Congress and signed into law by President Obama in 2011. These caps have been the only meaningful check on spending under the Obama administration and breaking them sends a message to the American people that we lack the political courage to live within our means. This deal adds $80 billion in spending over the next two years above the legal limits and breaks the budget passed by Congress earlier this year. Like the typical Washington insider deal that it is -- this agreement is a “spend now save later” smoke and mirrors accounting gimmick. We are selling off strategic oil reserves, raiding the Social Security trust fund, and relying on "pension smoothing" and other budgetary tricks for the alleged future savings. Iowa's agricultural economy is also directly attacked by this bill by cutting crop insurance programs that so many Iowa farmers rely on. The American people have to balance their budget at home and they deserve a federal government that does the same. I don’t think it’s too radical to ask Washington DC to only spend what it takes in -- just like Iowa families do. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
10.28.2015	Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) led a bipartisan Iowa delegation letter to the Department of Labor (DoL) requesting a review of the recently proposed Conflicts of Interest Rule under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). The letter specifically asks the Department to revisit potentially harmful portions of the rule to better protect consumers and ensure the continued ability of the financial planning industry that is a critical part of Iowa’s economy to effective serve their customers. Senators Chuck Grassley and Joni Ernst joined with Representatives Dave Loebsack and David Young in also signing the letter. Additionally, Congressman Blum voted “yes” yesterday as the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1090, the Retail Investor Protection Act, which would delay implementation of the rule until the Security and Exchange Commission updates their fiduciary standard in order to avoid a conflicting standards and increased confusion for consumers and the industry. “I’ve heard personally from many Iowans who worry the proposed rule will have harmful effects on their ability to retire with true security,” said Congressman Blum. “Our government shouldn’t be making it more difficult for hard working families to get financial advice, and we’re standing up on behalf of Iowans who are simply trying to plan for their families’ future. We’re simply requesting that the Department listen to input from concerned Iowans, consider the possible damage their proposed rule will do, and make common sense modifications before moving forward.” The full letter to the Department of Labor can be read here: http://1.usa.gov/1Gxbh3m Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.30.2015	Today, Representative Rod Blum issued the following statement on his vote against the continuing resolution: “Today I voted no on the continuing resolution because I believe that short term, last minute funding measures that kick the can down the road are not the proper way to run our country. When regular order is abandoned in favor of back room deals the American people are not truly represented. No wonder nearly 70% of Americans think our country is headed in the wrong direction: career politicians from both sides of the aisle refuse to accept responsibility and do the job they were elected to do.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.30.2015	Representative Rod Blum will be holding his first Women in Business Forum at the University of Northern Iowa. The forum is designed to encourage continued dialogue on the topic of women in business in Iowa, and identify and connect interested women to a network of service providers that can help further advance their entrepreneurial dreams. The forum will take place on October 14th. More details can be found below. Event: Congressman Blum’s Women in Business Forum When: Wednesday October 14th, 3PM-7PM Location: University of Northern Iowa 1227 W. 27th Street Cedar Falls, IA 50614 Those interested in attending can sign up here: www.iowawomensforum.com *Any questions or help with registration should be directed to Jack Mescher at (319)364-2288 or Jack.Mescher@mail.house.gov. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.14.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum announced that Max Ortner of the Blessed Sacrament Church in Waterloo has been selected to travel to Washington as his special guest for the address of Pope Francis to Congress. “Mr. Ortner has been a dedicated and selfless volunteer for Blessed Sacrament and the community for decades, and is a wonderful example of the difference one caring person can make. I am honored to have him as my special guest for the Pope’s address to Congress,” said Congressman Blum. Congressman Blum worked with First District parishes to identify a lay person who exemplifies a lifetime of true service and selfless dedication within the Catholic Church to receive the Congressman's ticket to sit in the House gallery for the Papal address. Each parish was given the opportunity to nominate individuals, and the names received were entered into a drawing for the gallery ticket. Congressman Blum is personally paying for the travel expenses of Mr. Ortner to ensure that there are no barriers for him to attend. Background: Waterloo/Cedar Falls Courier - Some Iowa delegates distributing tickets for papal visit KWWL - Max Ortner distributes weekly communion at care facilities Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
09.03.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum publicly announced his opposition to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, more commonly known as the Iran agreement, negotiated by the Obama Administration and currently being considered by Congress. Recently, Congressman Blum outlined multiple areas of serious concerns with the proposed agreement, including the lack of any involvement of the United States in the nuclear inspections, the 24 day notification process for inspections, a lack of dismantlement of current nuclear infrastructure which could permit Iran to obtain nuclear capabilities after the terms of the agreement expire, a failure to sufficiently curb Iran’s development of ballistic missile technology, the deal’s rollback of the United Nations arms embargo, no provisions requiring Iran to release the U.S. citizens being held in Iran, and the recent revelations regarding Iran’s ability to conduct “self inspections” through a secret side deal. “After personally reading through the text of the agreement, it’s clear this deal does not make America safer,” said Congressman Blum. “I want the long lasting peace in the Middle East that has eluded us and I favor traditional diplomatic avenues over military action, but it is unacceptable that the Obama State Department did not negotiate better terms to ensure that Iran will not be allowed to develop nuclear weapons. This deal sets a dangerous precedent by lifting the very sanctions that were working and brought Iran to the table in the first place, and I will be voting to reject the agreement.” Background: Cedar Rapids Gazette - Blum: 'Lots of issues' with Iran nuclear agreement Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
08.28.2015	Yesterday, a North Dakota federal judge issued an order blocking the immediate implementation of the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule. The Obama Administration is seeking to expand the jurisdiction of federal authority over local waterways and tributaries by removing control from individuals, farms, and small businesses. The proposed rule from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) was scheduled to take effect today. Although Iowa is not a party to the lawsuit, the order is expected to apply to all 50 states. “I am relieved the judge issued this order to prevent the EPA and USACE from continuing the power grab of waterway authority from the states,” said Congressman Blum. “I believe that Iowa farmers, families, and small business owners are in the best position to protect our water resources, and I will continue to work with my colleagues in the House of Representatives to protect Iowans from this federal overreach. I hope that the President and his Administration will now come to the table and work with Congress to develop common sense rules that protect our natural resources without overly burdening our hard working citizens.” Earlier this year, Mr. Blum led a letter for the inclusion of a prohibition of funding for the WOTUS rule in the FY 2016 appropriations process. Mr. Blum also cosponsored and voted for the bipartisan H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, which would roll back the WOTUS rule and require the EPA and USACE to work with local stakeholders as well as to take additional public comment on any reissued rule. The legislation awaits further action in the Senate. *Update: The EPA has announced it will enforce WOTUS provisions in the 37 states not party to the lawsuit. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
07.28.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum voted in favor of H.R. 427, the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny (REINS) Act. If enacted, this legislation will require that executive branch regulations with an annual economic impact of $100 million or more be approved by a joint resolution of Congress in order to take effect. Rep. Blum is also an original cosponsor of the legislation. “The excessive and misguided regulations coming from the executive branch are hurting our economy and costing our workers jobs,” said Congressman Blum. “And because they are implemented without Congressional approval, the American people aren’t given the opportunity to see where their Representatives stand on these rules that have such a large impact on our economy. This commonsense legislation gives Congress -- and through them, the citizens of the United States -- a voice in the regulatory process and provides a much needed check on the Administration that is increasingly going around Congress to legislate by executive order.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
07.27.2015	Congressman Rod Blum has joined 20 of his colleagues serving on the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform to formally request the President remove the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Commissioner John Koskinen from his position. Over the last two years, the OGR Committee has been investigating the misconduct by the IRS regarding their targeting of certain organizations’ applications for tax exempt status. However, the committee’s investigation has been hindered by the IRS’ admitted destruction of relevant emails from IRS official Lois Lerner, misleading statements by Commissioner Koskinen, and the refusal of the Administration to comply with Committee requests. “This continued obstruction into this investigation by the IRS and the Administration is simply unacceptable,” said Congressman Blum. “For all the rhetoric coming from this Administration on the need for transparency, there has been a disturbing lack of compliance with Committee requests and zero accountability for their discriminatory actions against certain groups. I fully support the Committee’s call to remove Mr. Koskinen from his position: the IRS is one of the federal government’s most powerful agencies - and one with which everyday taxpayers interact with the most - and they should act in a nonpartisan, fair, and transparent manner. Mr. Koskinen’s IRS has failed to meet this basic standard and it’s time for the President to hold him accountable.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
07.24.2015	This week Congressman Rod Blum, along with Congressman Kevin Cramer (R-ND) and Congressman Dr. Dan Benishek (R-MI), introduced H.R.3136, the Enforcement Transparency Act (ETA) of 2015. This legislation would require the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) to publicly release the table used to calculate fines by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) for violations under the Animal Welfare Act. “Unfortunately, there are too many regulatory barriers facing American researchers as they work to develop life saving cures and new medical technologies,” said Congressman Blum. “According to the National Science Board, our researchers spend 42% of their time doing paperwork instead of working to develop advances in medicine that will treat and cure the horrible diseases that afflict Americans. This legislation will help ensure that the remaining 58% of their time is focused as much as possible on conducting high quality research. Any industry - especially one as critical as the medical research community - deserves the certainty and stability of knowing what the rules are as they work to advance our society and save Americans from debilitating diseases.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight& Government Reform Committees. ###
07.21.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) and Congressman Dave Loebsack (D-IA) called on the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps) to begin construction on the Cedar Rapids flood management project that was authorized by Congress in 2014. After the severe flooding of the Cedar River in 2008 -- which resulted in $2.4B in estimated property losses -- Congress authorized $73.1 million in funding towards a flood management and prevention project for Cedar Rapids in the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA) in 2014. However, since the project’s approval there have been multiple delays keeping the project from moving forward, and the joint letter sent today by Blum and Loebsack requests that the Corps address the delays and expedite construction. “This project has already been authorized by Congress, and it’s my hope that the Army Corps of Engineers recognizes the importance of the project so it can move forward in a timely fashion. Ensuring that the community of Cedar Rapids never again experiences the devastation of 2008 is critical, and I look forward to working with the Corps, my colleagues in Congress on both sides of the aisle, and local Cedar Rapids officials to expedite this process so the city can receive the funds designated by Congress,” said Congressman Blum. “The residents and businesses in downtown Cedar Rapids have waited too long to get the protection necessary to prevent future devastation. I have been fighting since the Floods of 2008 to get these protection measures approved by Congress and signed into law by the President, as well as delivering more than $4 billion in disaster assistance to help Iowa rebuild. While we can’t predict what future weather will bring, we have to get these flood protection measures in place quickly so downtown Cedar Rapids can continue its recovery and thrive,” said Congressman Loebsack. Reps. Blum and Loebsack will continue to work together with the Corps, the Administration and the relevant Congressional committees to ensure the completion of the project to protect the lives and property of their constituents that live along the Cedar River. A copy of the letter can be found here: http://1.usa.gov/1Lr9lui. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
07.16.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum issued the following statement regarding his “no” vote on HR 3038, the House’s temporary reauthorization of the Highway Trust Fund. “As a career small businessman, I know from a lifetime of experience that uncertainty is the enemy of businesses. This bill was yet another temporary patch for our critical infrastructure needs that kicks the can down the road and leaves our builders, contractors and planners with no ability to make longer term investments or prepare for the future. A first class infrastructure is paramount to reigniting our economy. We need a long term solution to our country’s infrastructure problems, not more short term management by crisis." “Further, as a member of the House Budget Committee, I have grave concerns about the funding for this bill. The five month cost of the legislation is $8.1 billion, funded by 20 years of budget gimmicks like IRS collection schemes, “pension smoothing,” and higher fees on businesses, air travelers and families with mortgages. This is typical of our federal government: spend the money now and pay for it 20 years from now. We need to make the tough decisions today and stop using accounting tricks to pass on the credit card bill to our children and grandchildren instead.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight& Government Reform Committees. ###
07.14.2015	This morning, the Obama Administration announced the completion of an agreement between Iran and the P5+1 (China, Russia, United Kingdom, France, United States and Germany) countries regarding Iran's nuclear capabilities. Congressman Rod Blum issued the following statement reacting to the news: “I cannot stress enough my concerns about negotiating with the world’s largest state sponsor of global terrorism. Despite any good intentions of the deal, a preliminary review of the agreement shows it falls short of stopping Iran from further developing military nuclear abilities while allowing Iran to continue funding terrorism with a "signing bonus" of up to $50 billion in relief from sanctions - nearly double their annual military budget." “Especially troubling is the component of the agreement that will maintain a 14 day notification process for the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to inspect any undeclared facilities. If Iran is truly committed to transparency then anytime/anywhere inspections should have been part of the deal from the beginning.” "Additionally, this agreement does not completely dismantle the nuclear program within Iran nor prevent Iran from acquiring ballistic missiles, as the agreement expires after 10 years and the arms ban is only 5 years long - or earlier if the IAEA can be convinced the nuclear program is entirely peaceful." "Further, there is no mention of securing the release of the three American citizens being wrongly held by Iran. This is simply irresponsible of the Administration to permit these Americans to remain in Iranian custody." “I look forward to reviewing the agreement in more detail over the next 60 days, and if in fact the deal is as bad as initially reported, will work to make sure that Congress does everything possible to block the agreement." Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
07.11.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum joined a bipartisan majority of his colleagues in voting in favor of H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act. The legislation passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 344-77. H.R. 6 reauthorizes funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), streamlines the Federal Drug Administration’s approval process for new drugs and medical devices, and creates a new “Innovation Fund” that provides $8.75 billion over the next five years dedicated to discovering new cures for debilitating diseases. “Investing in research to cure the diseases that afflict millions of Americans is truly one of the best ways the federal government can utilize our resources. I firmly believe that this legislation will allow the NIH to be at the forefront of breakthrough developments that will eliminate or treat many diseases that affect Americans. As the best incubator for medical research in the world, the United States should be leading the way to encourage further investment into cures and treatment procedures for patients, and I was proud to support the 21st Century Cures Act in the House today,” said Congressman Blum. The Senate is currently working on their version of the legislation which is expected to be debated sometime this fall. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget Committee and the Oversight & Government Reform Committee. ###
07.10.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum signed on as an original co-sponsor of “Kate’s Law.” Congressman Matt Salmon (R-AZ) introduced this legislation in response to the tragic murder of 32-year-old San Francisco woman Kate Steinle by an illegal immigrant with a felony record who had been deported five times. The bill would ensure that any adult illegal immigrant who is deported from the United States and chooses to again enter our country illegally faces a prison sentence of no less than five years. “The heart-rending tragedy in California is just the latest clear sign that Congress must act in order to protect the American people. Americans overwhelmingly support common sense rules that ensure the safety of citizens like Kate Steinle and this legislation does just that. By imposing a five year prison sentence on any adult illegal immigrant who is deported and yet chooses to again violate our laws we are sending a clear message that this type of behavior will not be tolerated and that you will be held accountable," said Congressman Blum. "32-year-old Kate Steinle’s recent murder was heartbreaking and unconscionable. It showed once more we must sharpen our statutes to demand accountability from the Executive Branch. By instituting the mandatory minimums in Kate's Law, we can dissuade those who so casually disregard our laws and I thank Congressman Blum for his co-sponsorship of this important bill,” added Congressman Salmon. In addition to Kate’s Law, Congressman Salmon also recently introduced H.R. 2942, the Stop Catch and Release Act also known as “Grant’s Law”, which would require DHS to keep criminal illegal aliens in custody and complete removal proceedings of such aliens within 90 days of arrest instead of releasing them onto America’s streets. Congressman Blum is also a co-sponsor of Grant’s Law. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
06.18.2015	Congressman Blum will be hosting his first Veterans Job Fair & Services Expo on Tuesday June 30 in Cedar Rapids. Employers from all over Iowa will be attending the Job Fair looking to hire area veterans. "Veterans have the leadership qualities and practical skills that employers are looking for, and I'm looking forward to helping connect them with Iowa employers through our Veterans Expo," said Blum. "We're excited about the many participating employers, groups and organizations who are working together to make this event a successful way we can give back to those who have served our nation." More details are below. Event: Veterans Job Fair & Services Expo When: Tuesday, June 30th from 1-5PM Location: Veterans Memorial Building 50 2nd Ave Bridge Cedar Rapids, IA 52401 Interested Veterans can RSVP here: tinyurl.com/BLUMVETSJOBS *Any inquiries should be directed to Jack Mescher at (319) 364-2288 or Jack.Mescher@mail.house.gov. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
06.12.2015	“Yesterday, I joined 178 Democrats and 33 Republicans in voting “no” on H.Res. 305, a procedural measure on the rules for consideration of Trade Promotion Authority (TPA) by the House of Representatives. Though the current form of TPA does include Congressional oversight over the trade agreement process, I voted no because I believed the House should have taken more time to improve the bill by giving Congress additional oversight and strengthening protections for American workers and American jobs in any free trade agreement. The resolution passed the House by a 217 to 212 vote when 8 Democrats decided to vote “yes.” “Today, after reading the entire bill, I voted “yes” on TPA, which passed 219 - 211, for several reasons. First, TPA will force the Obama administration to finally make the Trans Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade agreement completely public. All Americans should be able to view a trade agreement of this size and importance before it is enacted, and without TPA that would not happen. Second, TPA allows Congress to reject ANY trade agreements -- including TPP -- if the deal does not benefit America. Third, TPA gives Congress a seat at the table by including nearly 150 specific pro-America negotiating objectives for free trade agreements. If the Obama administration fails to achieve any of those objectives Congress can revoke TPA at any time. “I also voted “yes” on Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) today in conjunction with TPA. TAA, which failed 126 - 302, provides important benefits and access to retraining programs for American workers who have lost their jobs due to the impact of international trade so they can obtain the skills they need to get back in the workforce quickly. TAA is currently scheduled to be reconsidered by the House next week.” “Overall, I know trade is highly beneficial for America and for Iowa. In fact, 1 in 5 jobs in Iowa depend on trade, and opening up new world markets for Iowa products will drive up wages for Iowa workers and increase prosperity in our communities. 95% of the world’s consumers live outside the United States, and good free trade agreements give American businesses access to those customers so they can sell more American products and hire more American workers. Further, America has a trade SURPLUS with countries with which we have free trade agreements, and a trade DEFICIT with countries with whom we have no free trade agreement.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
06.01.2015	Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA), along with his colleague Congressman Peter Visclosky (D-IN), today formally announced the formation of the Congressional Slovak Caucus. “I am happy to join my colleague Rep. Visclosky in reconstituting the Congressional Slovak Caucus," said Rep. Blum. "With the National Czech and Slovak Museum and Library located in Cedar Rapids and many Slovaks living throughout Eastern Iowa, this caucus will help to build on the strong ties between the United States and Slovakia, a country that is an emerging economic power in Europe. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House, as well as the Embassy of the Slovak Republic, to continue to grow and foster this important economic and cultural relationship.” “Slovakia and the United States share an important bilateral relationship. Our partnership not only guarantees our security, but also fosters stronger economies and better lives for all those living in these two great countries. I cherish my Slovak heritage and will continue advancing initiatives with my colleagues in the Slovak Caucus who share our values of trust, friendship, and a better future for those we serve,” Congressman Visclosky said. “We are pleased Congressman Blum is helping reconstitute the Slovak Caucus because of the importance of the Slovak heritage in Iowa,” said Gail Naughton, President and CEO of the National Czech & Slovak Museum & Library. “The Congressman’s involvement is important to maintaining strong and friendly relations between America and Slovakia.” "I truly welcome the initiative to relaunch the Congressional Slovak Caucus in the 114th Congress. I take it as another manifestation of vital relationship between Slovakia and the United States, two countries with strong bonds sharing common values of freedom, democracy, and a rule of law. I very much look forward to our co-operation with the Slovak Caucus in further strengthening friendship between Slovakia and the United States," added Ambassador from Slovakia to the United States, Peter Kmec. The Congressional Slovak Caucus is a bi-partisan membership organization dedicate to discussing and educating other Members of Congress on issues related to Slovakian heritage, culture, and economic development. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
05.21.2015	Congressman Rod Blum will be hosting three constituent “Coffee with your Congressman” events this coming Saturday, May 23rd as part of his 20 County Listening Tour. These events are designed to give constituents throughout the First District who may not have access to one of our district offices the opportunity to meet directly with Congressman Blum and staff. All three events are open to the public and the media. Event: Dyersville Coffee with Congressman Blum When: Saturday May 23rd, 11AM-12PM Location: Groovy Grounds 211 1st Ave E #1 Dyersville, IA 52040 Event: Monticello Coffee with Congressman Blum When: Saturday May 23rd, 1PM-2PM Location: Java Jones 200 S Cedar Street Monticello, IA 52310 Event: Maquoketa Coffee with Congressman Blum When: Saturday May 23rd, 3PM-4PM Location: Decker Hotel 128 N Main Street Maquoketa, IA 52060 *Media RSVP or inquiries should be directed to John Ferland at 563-272-1585 or John.Ferland@mail.house.gov. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight& Government Reform Committees. ###
05.18.2015	Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA), along with Reps. Gwen Graham (D-FL), and Paul Gosar (R-AZ) offered an amendment to the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act which would prohibit funds from being used to pay for first class travel for Members of the House of Representatives. Rep. Blum will testify in support of the bipartisan amendment today at 5 PM EST before the House Committee on Rules. “This is not a partisan issue: members of the House of Representatives don’t need special taxpayer funded perks like first class travel to do our job. By adopting this amendment, the House can take a concrete step towards showing the American people that we are serious about good stewardship of taxpayer money -- while holding ourselves accountable at a time when approval ratings for Congress remain near all time lows.” A Live Stream of the Rules Committee Hearing can be found here: http://rules.house.gov/videos Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
05.14.2015	This week, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) joined a bipartisan majority in the House of Representatives to pass H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. If enacted, this legislation would prohibit abortions after 20 weeks - the time after which babies can feel pain - with exceptions to protect the lives of mothers. The Congressional Budget Office estimates this legislation will lead to 2,500 lives saved each year. “As the father of five children, I understand the precious joy children bring to the world. I firmly believe it is my responsibility to protect the sanctity of life and to help those who cannot assist themselves,” Congressman Blum stated. “I cannot imagine why the opponents to this bill support permitting abortionists to inflict pain on an unborn baby who has the ability to feel.” Mr. Blum co-sponsored the measure introduced by Representative Trent Franks (R-AZ) in January. Passage of this legislation marks the second anniversary of the conviction of abortionist Kermit Gosnell, who was found killing of killing children born alive in his clinic and taking the life of an adult parent. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.27.2015	Congressman Rod Blum led a bipartisan letter with 22 other Members of Congress to Speaker of the House John Boehner calling for H.R. 880, the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2015, be brought for a vote as quickly as possible. H.R. 880 permanently extends and simplifies the calculations for the Research and Development Tax Credit. The House Committee on Ways and Means recently approved the bill, which awaits further action on the House floor. “As a small businessman, I fully understand the importance of stability in operating a business - especially a technology related company. Many of my colleagues in the Freshmen Class agree that making this tax credit permanent is a good start to maintaining the United States’ lead in innovation,” Rep. Blum said. “By incentivizing innovation, this tax credit encourages companies to create high paying, skilled jobs that will create the future of technology.” Besides Mr. Blum, the following members signed the letter: Costello, Comstock, Takai, Poliquin, Rouzer, Moolenaar, Carter (GA), Bishop (MI), Hardy, Mooney, Abraham, Babin, Trott, Love, Newhouse, Ratcliffe, Young (IA), Knight, Hurd, Hill, Bost, MacArthur. Currently, to date, the bipartisan legislation has 22 cosponsors, of which 11 are Freshmen Members. A copy of the letter can be found here: http://1.usa.gov/1QAzuaC Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.22.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA), along with Congressman Ken Buck (R-CO), Congressman Collin Peterson (D-MN), and Congressman David Young (R-IA) introduced the House companion to the Fuel Choice and Deregulation Act of 2015. U.S. Senators Rand Paul (R-KY) and Chuck Grassley (R-IA) authored the legislation, which removes the burdensome restrictions placed on the ethanol marketplace by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), further encourages manufacturers and producers to develop new technologies, and equalizes the tax between liquid natural gas (LNG) and diesel fuel. “It is time for the EPA to stop denying American consumers access to new fuels in the marketplace,” said Rep. Blum. “Choice and competition are an integral part of our free market system: consumers deserve the opportunity to choose clean, domestically produced fuel options, and producers and manufacturers should be allowed to innovate within the fuel sector to bring new products to consumers. This bill from Senators Paul and Grassley reduces unnecessary red tape while promoting competition, innovation, and fairness in the energy marketplace, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and the Senate to move this measure forward.” Sen. Paul added: "The EPA's onerous regulation of fuels is artificially limiting options for consumers and producers and preventing the adoption of new fuel options that could benefit our environment, our economy, and our energy security. Through competition and consumer choice, my bill will free fuel producers and automobile manufacturers to innovate and bring new products to market that can lower costs to consumers, increase domestic energy production, and benefit the environment. I am proud to stand with Rep. Rod Blum today as he introduces the House companion to the Fuel Choice and Deregulation Act.” “Consumers appreciate having choices, whether it’s at the grocery store or the fuel pump,” Sen. Grassley said. “Those of us who live in biofuels-producing states like Iowa understand the appeal of cleaner, domestic, renewable fuels. The EPA should be consistent in the way it treats different fuel blends as a matter of fairness and to give consumers more options for fueling their vehicles. The EPA has never acted on its authority to grant a waiver for E15. A legislative fix will fill the void. I’m glad to see Rep. Blum is taking the lead on the House companion to this common sense bill. Between the E15 fix and other measures, this bill goes a long way toward clearing key regulatory hurdles while further encouraging the use of alternative fuels.” Monte Shaw, Iowa Renewable Fuels Association Executive Director: “Iowa ethanol producers and consumers appreciate Rep. Blum taking the lead on this important issue. There are several government impediments to fair market access for higher ethanol blends that restrict consumer choices at the pump. The unfair regulatory treatment of E15 is one of the most important to address quickly. We look forward to working with Rep. Blum to move this legislation forward.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.14.2015	Today Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) introduced his first bill, H.R.1740, the No Golden Parachutes for Public Service Act. This legislation would prohibit Members of Congress from ever engaging in lobbying activities after they leave office. “I firmly believe that the privilege of serving your constituents should be reward enough for Members of Congress,” said Blum. “This bill would finally close the revolving door between Congress and special interest groups, restoring integrity to our political system and ensuring that politicians focus on representing their constituents instead of catering to lobbying groups who offer a lucrative post-electoral career.” “Since my election, I’ve followed through on my campaign promise to be a different kind of Member of Congress. I am backing legislation that reforms Congress by eliminating luxury travel perks, enacting term limits, freezing salaries, and cutting cadillac pension plans for politicians,” Blum continued. “This lifetime ban on lobbying is another step in that effort to make Congress more accountable to the people by reducing the incentive for our elected officials to use their position for their own personal gain.” This bill will affect Members that leave office after enactment. Congressman Blum will continue to pursue an agenda that reforms Congress and returns power to the people, not career politicians. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
04.01.2015	Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA), along with Congressman Beto O’Rourke (D-TX), announced the formation of the bipartisan Congressional Term Limits Caucus today. “As someone coming to Congress from the private sector, I believe Washington suffers from a lack of fresh, innovative ideas and the courage to implement them,” said Blum, who along with O’Rourke will serve as Co-Chair of the caucus. Blum continued: “The root of this problem is that politicians are incentivized by the system to care more about retaining their position than doing what is best for the country. Our founding fathers never intended for public service to be a career, rather, serving in Congress was designed to be a temporary sacrifice made for the public good. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Term Limits Caucus, I’m looking forward to working with my fellow Co-Chair Representative O’Rourke to build momentum for this common sense bipartisan reform.” The Congressional Term Limit Caucus is a bi-partisan membership organization with the focus of enacting term limit legislation for members of Congress. As Co-Chairs, Rep. Blum and Rep. O’Rourke will work to increase membership and to build momentum towards this important reform. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
03.24.2015	This week, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) led a bipartisan letter to the House Committee on Appropriations requesting a prohibition on funding for the EPA’s proposed Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulations. The bipartisan letter garnered signatures from 104 Members of Congress and if implemented would prevent the EPA from claiming federal jurisdiction over small bodies of water like ponds, streams, ditches, and even “wetlands” that only contain water after rain. “I’ve heard from countless Iowans who worry that these proposed rules will have harmful effects on agriculture and small business,” said Blum. “Congress must take a stand and protect Americans like them -- who are simply trying to provide for their families -- from hyperactive federal agencies like the EPA. Everyone wants clean water, but these burdensome regulations clearly cross the line of common sense and must be stopped. I thank so many of my colleagues for standing with me in this effort and rest assured, I will continue to fight on behalf of Iowa’s hard working families." The full letter to the Committee on Appropriations can be read here: http://1.usa.gov/1N4r2Of Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
03.11.2015	Representative Rod Blum released the following statement regarding his role as the Republican lead on Representative Gwen Graham’s (D-FL) bill to eliminate taxpayer-funded first class flights and long term personal vehicle leases for members of Congress: “This is not a partisan issue: members of Congress don’t need taxpayer funded perks like first class travel and long term car leases to do their job. America’s founders never intended for public servants to live a life of luxury paid for by everyday Americans. That’s why I’ve made it a high priority to back legislation which reforms Congress and ensures good stewardship of U.S. taxpayer dollars.” Rep. Blum has supported numerous other measures to reform Congress in his first nine weeks in office, including co-sponsoring legislation on enacting term limits, prohibiting members’ automatic pay increases, and eliminating Congressional pensions Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
03.03.2015	Representative Rod Blum released the following statement about today’s DHS bill: “Today I voted against funding the President's illegal and unconstitutional executive actions on immigration. I had no choice but to do so: I took an oath to defend and uphold the Constitution of the United States. In past weeks I voted three times to fully fund the Department of Homeland Security while withholding funds for the President's illegal actions, only to see that legislation blocked by Senate Democrats who would rather blindly follow their party than uphold their oath. It's disingenuous to fault those of us who are simply asking the President to follow the law. In the real world the blame falls on the people who break the rules, not the people who are trying to enforce the rules.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees.
02.27.2015	Representative Rod Blum released the following statement about today’s DHS bill: “This afternoon I voted to fund the Department of Homeland Security for the next 21 days. This legislation would have kept DHS fully open while allowing the House and Senate time to reconcile their differences in conference. I would have voted "No" if any funds went towards President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty, but those actions have been halted for now by the recent court ruling in Texas.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
02.12.2015	Today, Congressman Rod Blum (R-IA) continued to take a leading role in calling for a solution to the West Coast port slowdown. Blum participated in a bipartisan press conference calling for a swift resolution to the dispute between the Pacific Maritime Association (PMA) and the International Longshoreman Warehouse Union (ILWU). The situation has put the livelihoods of Iowa farmers, manufacturers and workers at risk by hampering the export of American products. “As a career small businessman, any issue that affects American jobs is a top priority for me,” said Blum. “That’s especially true when the exports that increase our national prosperity are threatened. Today, I’m proud to join colleagues from both sides of the aisle to call for a resolution to this problem that is hurting working families and businesses in Iowa and across the country.” Additionally, Congressman Blum today also co-sponsored a resolution calling on the PMA and ILWU to quickly resolve their impasse through a federal mediator, and if a shutdown occurs, for the President to use all authorities granted to him under current law to end the dispute. Congressman Blum’s actions today follow his January spearheading of a bipartisan letter to President Obama, written by Blum and signed by the entire bicameral Iowa delegation that requested the President to assist in the resolution of the dispute. A copy of the letter can be found here: http://1.usa.gov/1Agl7TM VIDEO: Bipartisan Press Conference Urging Resolution to West Coast Port Slowdown Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
02.05.2015	This week Congressman Rod Blum took a leadership role in the effort to make Section 179 expensing permanent. Blum signed on as a co-sponsor of H.R. 636, designed to permanently extend the $500,000 limit, indexed for inflation, for expensing purposes for investments in new equipment and property. In addition to this effort, Rep. Blum also led a bipartisan letter to Speaker of the House John Boehner from the Iowa delegation requesting that H.R. 636 be brought to the House floor for consideration as quickly as possible. Rep. Blum released the following statement about his efforts on Section 179: “Permanently extending Section 179 will provide much greater certainty for both Iowa farmers and small businesses by allowing them to strategically invest in new property and equipment. Those investments will boost our economy and benefit working families, family farms, and businesses who employ large numbers of Eastern Iowans. Short term extensions don’t allow businesses to adequately plan for the future, and it’s time Congress end this cycle and permanently enact this expensing provision so Iowans can create more jobs with higher wages.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.29.2015	Congressman Rod Blum signed on as an original co-sponsor of H.R. 594, the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act. This legislation is designed to prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other federal agencies from expanding improper jurisdiction of private and state property under the Clean Water Act, which could have drastic negative implications for agriculture, businesses, and municipalities across Iowa. Rep. Blum released the following statement about his co-sponsorship of H.R. 594: “Increasing burdensome federal regulations will be extremely harmful to Iowa farmers and small businesses that are already stifled by over-regulation and compliance costs. We all agree that common sense rules are needed to ensure that Iowans enjoy clean air and clean water, but these extreme actions by federal bureaucrats are not the answer. Better conservation solutions are found when state and local officials are allowed to work together with land-owners." “This bill rejects these overreaching jurisdictional claims made by the EPA and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and encourages the federal agencies, states, and local officials to go back to the drawing board and find common ground on a working proposal for approval by Congress. It is our responsibility as elected officials to ensure that the federal government acts responsibly to protect our precious resources without unduly hindering job creation and economic growth." Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.23.2015	Congressman Rod Blum today released the following statement regarding the announcement of layoffs at John Deere: “Today’s news of layoffs at John Deere stands in stark contrast to the rosy economic picture painted by President Obama in his State of the Union address this week. Unfortunately, the recovery still has not reached many of our working families. I am convinced our economy can do much better. I came to Washington to do just that, and I am working hard everyday to promote common sense policies that encourage job creation and wage increases for families in Eastern Iowa - rather than overburdening our economic powerhouses in manufacturing with increased red tape and compliance costs. That’s why I’ve already co-sponsored legislation like the REINS Act and RAPID Act that reduce unneeded costly regulations and streamline a bureaucracy that holds business back. In addition, we also need to address our outdated tax code, lowering rates while eliminating unfair loopholes for special interests. We should also push for smart trade agreements that increase access to markets for American goods, like Iowa agricultural products. And this is just the beginning: there is much more that we in Congress can do to help reignite our economy, and I am hopeful that both parties will work together to get the job done.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.20.2015	Tonight it was an honor to attend the State of the Union address, and I was glad to hear President Obama focus on improving the economic situation for working families: I agree that we must do better to foster an environment that provides opportunity for all Americans. The reality is that middle class families are still struggling under the policies of the last six years, and voters made it clear in November that a new direction is needed. I absolutely agree with the President that we need to close unfair loopholes and reduce the tax burden on the middle class. Letting hard working Americans keep more of their money will stimulate economic growth and increase financial security for our families. But paying for this welcome tax relief by raising other taxes is not the answer. Let's increase our tax base through higher wages and more jobs while cutting wasteful spending that both parties agree is unnecessary. The President also spoke about trade agreements tonight, and I see this as an area where bipartisan cooperation is achievable. Opening up new markets for American products will be a boon not only in Iowa, but all across our country. We also need to eliminate the harmful red tape that stifles our small businesses and encourage domestic energy development, two initiatives that the House has taken up already in the new Congress, but that have unfortunately drawn only veto threats from the Administration. Overall, I was glad to hear the President express a willingness to work with Congress to move our country forward, but his choice to begin this Congress with multiple veto threats makes me skeptical. House Republicans are willing to come to the table at any time to collaborate on a common sense agenda that helps reignite the economy, and I sincerely hope the President will join with us. Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.16.2015	Newly elected First District Congressman Rod Blum has wrapped up a busy first two weeks in Congress. Since being sworn in on January 6th, Rep. Blum has focused on a common sense agenda geared towards increasing opportunities for working families and reining in the hyperactive executive branch. Top highlights include casting votes in support of H.R. 3, the Keystone XL Pipeline; H.R.37, the Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Small Business Burdens Act; H.R. 22, the Hire More Heroes Act. Rep. Blum said: “These common sense pieces of legislation enjoy bipartisan support and will lead to more jobs and higher wages for working families and veterans while reducing red tape for small businesses.” Additionally, Representative Blum voted in favor of H.R. 240, Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, saying “The President cannot simply ignore Congress and bypass the legislative process, and the bill we passed rolls back his attempts to do so while fully funding the Department. It's my hope that the President will now come to the table and work with Congress to find solutions that secure our border and fix our immigration system.” Congressman Blum also signed on as an original co-sponsor to several key pieces of legislation in his first two weeks: H.J. Res. 14, U.S. Term Limits; H.J. Res. 1, which proposes a Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution; and H.R. 24, the Federal Reserve Transparency Act (Audit the Fed). “I chose to co-sponsor these bills right away because they address two of the biggest problems facing the country: runaway deficit spending and career politicians who have forgotten that the people are their bosses. I look forward to doing everything I can to recruit more support for these bill and hope to see them come up for a vote on the House floor soon.” Rod Blum is the Republican Congressman in Iowa’s 1st District. He is a member of the Budget and Oversight & Government Reform Committees. ###
01.06.2015	U.S. Representative Rod Blum was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. share: f t U.S. Representative Rod Blum was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker John Boehner on January 6th, 2015. The Honorable Rod Blum was elected to serve as representative of Iowa’s 1st Congressional District. Representative Rod Blum was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.06.2015	The 114th freshman class stands ready for the new Congress. share: f t A photo of the 114th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th U.S. Congress will commence on January 6th, 2015 in Washington, DC. share: f t The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.06.2015	The First Session of the 114th U.S. Congress will commence on January 6th, 2015 in Washington, DC. share: f t The First Session of the 114th United States Congress commences on January 6th, 2015. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
