02.05.2019	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Trump’s 2019 State of the Union Address: “Over the past two years, President Trump has tried repeatedly to sabotage Americans’ healthcare, inflicted harm and hardship during an unnecessary government shutdown, exploded the budget deficit with massive tax giveaways to corporate interests, and sowed fear and bigotry instead of working with Democrats on effective immigration reform and border policy. Despite the president’s remarkable inability to tell the truth, the American people know that this newly-elected Democratic House majority will heal our Union and lead the recovery following this administration's endless chaos. Democrats will fight to lower health care costs and raise wages. We will address climate change and expand voting rights. We’ll keep working to restore government so it works for the people.” # # #
02.04.2019	As Chair of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Congresswoman McCollum is holding public witness testimony to hear about the impact of federal funding on relevant stakeholders, including tribal communities, arts advocates, environmental groups, and more. See below for instructions, deadlines, and hearing dates. Subcommittee Releases Instructions for Submitting Requests to Testify The Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies will hold public witness hearings on Tuesday, February 26 for non-tribal programs, and March 6 and 7 for tribal programs. In addition to the public witness hearings, written testimony will be accepted in accordance with the guidelines below. All written testimony will be reviewed by the subcommittee and will be included in the public record. Click here to view the fiscal year 2019 testimony, or visit: https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/CHRG-115hhrg30858/pdf/CHRG-115hhrg30858.pdf Public Witness Hearing (non-tribal programs) Please find further instructions for submitting a request to testify or written testimony to the Subcommittee by clicking here. The deadline to submit requests to testify at the February 26 hearing (non-tribal programs) is Thursday, February 7, 2019. American Indian and Alaska Native Public Witness Hearings Please find further instructions for submitting a request to testify or written testimony to the Subcommittee by clicking here. The deadline to submit requests to testify at the March 6 and 7 hearings (tribal programs) is Monday, February 11, 2019.
02.01.2019	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement commemorating Black History Month: “This month, we reflect on the African American experience throughout our country’s existence, and celebrate the contributions and accomplishments of Black leaders in American history. We must remember the harsh injustices and the fraught struggle for equality that Black Americans have faced and continue to face in our country, and keep up the fight for equality and justice for all. “We celebrate and honor the dedicated activists who marched for justice and put their lives on the line for the recognition of civil rights, cultural icons who have enriched the fabric of what it means to be an American, and current leaders who continue to bend the moral arc of the universe as we seek to create a more perfect union. “This Black History Month, we remember the past and recommit to a better future. This means keeping up the fight against ongoing attacks on voting rights, which disproportionately affect communities of color; it means implementing policies that address structural racism in order to make the American Dream more accessible for everyone; and it means continuing to speak up and speak out against injustices inflicted by this president and the hate he often encourages. “We can and will heal our country’s divides -- and we can only do so when we remember and learn from the past and ensure it informs our future.” # # #
01.23.2019	Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) was officially confirmed as Chair of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies. Upon taking the gavel, an urgent priority for Rep. McCollum will be to conduct oversight of the Trump administration’s actions during the shutdown concerning the Department of Interior, EPA, and other agencies. Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “As Chair of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I plan to hold the Trump administration accountable for its actions during the partial federal government shutdown, many of which appear to be violations of appropriations law. I’m disturbed by their decision to use entrance fees to pay for day-to-day operations of our national parks, when that money is meant for long-term improvements. I’m troubled about the Trump administration changing the rules in the middle of the shutdown to bring back certain furloughed employees to ensure oil and gas drilling permits and the companies benefiting from them don’t feel the pain of the shutdown. I’m concerned about the park rangers stationed as normal at a federal historic site that happens to be located within the Trump International Hotel. There are serious questions about the legality of these and other actions by the administration. I have formally requested that the U.S. Government Accountability Office testify before the committee so my fellow appropriators and members of the public can determine whether Trump administration actions constitute a misuse of taxpayer dollars under the Antideficiency Act or other provisions of law. Our subcommittee will also immediately seek testimony from members of the public, including environmental experts and advocates and tribal leaders, to inform our upcoming hearings with administration officials. “Under my leadership, our subcommittee will not let this administration go unchecked. As Chair, I will make every effort to ensure this committee not only makes smart investments to protect public health and safety and our natural resources – but also serves as a watchdog for how federal funds under our purview are spent. It’s essential that government leaders be good stewards of taxpayer dollars. If this administration is breaking the law and exceeding the intent of Congress to unlawfully move appropriated funds, the American people deserve to know about it.” # # #
01.22.2019	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL, MN-04) and other Members of Congress released a letter sent January 18, 2019, to the Bureau of Land Management requesting an extension of the amount of time the public can comment on its plans to renew 10-year leases for Twin Metals, a company seeking to build a copper-nickel mine directly adjacent to the Boundary Waters. The letter was sent jointly with Chair of the House Natural Resources Committee Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva, Natural Resources Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee Chair Subcommittee Chair Rep. Alan Lowenthal, Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee Members Rep. Mike Quigley and Rep. Chellie Pingree, and fellow Minnesota members Rep. Ilhan Omar and Rep. Dean Phillips. In the letter, the Representatives cited the Boundary Waters’ pristine waters, and the economic importance it has as the most-visited wilderness in America. The letter also cites concerns. First, the abundance and interconnected nature of these waters is what makes them uniquely vulnerable to sulfide-ore copper mining pollution. Once this type of pollution enters the watershed, the damage can't be undone. Further, today, January 22, 2019, is the last day for the public to submit comments on this proposal. During 28 days of BLM’s 30-day comment period, the Bureau has been subject to a federal partial government shutdown. Many of the staff that Americans would typically reach out to for assistance have been furloughed for most of this comment period. Much of the comment period also overlapped with the Christmas and New Year holidays, creating another potential burden for the public to comment. The letter also requests that BLM allow the USFS to prepare a thorough Environmental Impact Statement, to consider the economic, environmental, public health, and other related issues raised by the renewal of these leases. This is critical, so that the American public can know without doubt that our water and our natural resources would not be harmed by the industrial activities resulting from these lease renewals. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement:“For the protection of our natural resources as well as for the sake of the local economy, both today and tomorrow, special care must be taken to ensure a comprehensive process is followed regarding this federal action. Much is potentially at stake with the renewal of these leases -- and state and local governments, tribal nations, advocacy organizations, and interested Americans deserve sufficient opportunity to weigh in.” # # #
01.21.2019	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in commemoration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day, observed on Monday, January 21, 2019. “The legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. is rooted in recognizing and championing the inherent rights and dignity of all Americans; all people. As we celebrate the teachings and leadership of this great American, we must confront the fact that dark forces – bigotry, racism, homophobia, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, and anti-immigrant policies – are alive and surging in our country. For instance, last week my U.S. House colleagues and I voted to reject white supremacy in ideology and action because of comments made by a Republican member, which were not unlike comments made in the past by the President. Dr. King also fought for the dignity of workers to be paid fairly and treated with respect. And yet today, more than 800,000 federal workers are being treated as political pawns during this partial government shutdown. For the past 31 days, the dignity and respect federal workers deserve for their service has been shamefully disregarded. As their families face economic hardship, I will continue to vote to open the federal government, pay federal employees, and express my gratitude for their service. This is a civil rights issue that demands action. Today and every day, our nation must remain committed to living out the lessons Dr. King prescribed: to be engaged in all levels of civic life; to advocate for voting rights, civil liberties, and healthcare; to speak up and defend our fellow Americans against bigotry and discrimination; and to pursue equality and justice for all.” # # #
01.10.2019	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Chair-designate of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, will bring the FY19 $35.9 billion Interior-Environment Appropriations Bill (H.R. 266) to the House floor on Friday, January 11, 2019, at 9:15am for a full vote by the U.S. House of Representatives. Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “Democrats are working to reopen the federal government as soon as possible. Passage of H.R. 266 will be another critical step toward completing the unfinished business of the 115th Congress,” Rep. McCollum said. “This bill will reopen the EPA, Department of Interior, Indian Health Service, and other important agencies in order to protect and preserve public health and our natural environment. Threats to our national parks and to the health and safety of Americans has now been at risk for nearly three weeks due to President Trump’s insistence on funding a border wall. For two years, Republicans controlled Congress and the White House, but did nothing prioritize funding for their wall. Yet now they are holding our government hostage and imperiling federal workers – all for a campaign talking point. “The workers employed by these federal agencies protect public health and safety and keep our natural places free from damage. Tomorrow, they will be without a paycheck because President Trump and Republicans want to keep the government shut down. With this bill, House Democrats are working hard to end the shutdown and ensure federal workers get paid. It’s time for President Trump and Republicans in Congress to step up and do their jobs.” Background: House Appropriations Committee Democrats have filed legislation to reopen the federal government and fund the Department of the Interior, Environmental Protection Agency, Forest Service, and other related agencies. The legislation is virtually identical to the FY19 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies bill that passed the Senate Appropriations Committee on a 31-0 vote and was adopted by the full Senate on a 92-6 vote. The legislation provides $35.9 billion in discretionary funding, $6 billion above the President’s budget request and $300 million above the FY2018 enacted level. The legislation will end the Trump Shutdown for those agencies covered in the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill through September 30. # # #
01.10.2019	President Trump’s shutdown of the federal government has harmed federal employees, our economy, and our national security. I have voted and will continue to vote to end his shutdown and reopen the government. President Trump’s demands for over $5 billion for a wall along our southern border will do nothing to make America safer or fix our broken immigration system. President Trump has systematically misled the American people by claiming there is a crisis of undocumented immigrants crossing the border. This is categorically false. In 2018, Customs and Border Protection apprehended fewer undocumented immigrants at the southern border than the yearly average during the previous decade. President Trump has also failed to acknowledge that a majority of illegal immigration occurs as a result of people overstaying their temporary visas – something a wall would do nothing to prevent. I am a strong supporter of smart border security that works. What the Department of Homeland Security needs is adequate funding for surveillance technology and personnel so that our borders, our ports, and our airports are properly staffed and our laws are enforced. President Trump and Republicans controlled Congress and the White House for two years and did absolutely nothing to prioritize building their wall. President Trump’s demands were nothing more than a pretext to shut down the federal government, which I completely reject. # # #
01.09.2019	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL, MN-04) has introduced an amendment to the U.S. Constitution to make health care a right for all Americans. The Health Care for All Amendment (H.J. Res. 17) states:“Health care, including care to prevent and treat illness, is the right of the people and necessary to ensure the strength of the Nation. The Congress shall have power to enforce and implement this article by appropriate legislation.” Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “At a time when the Trump administration and Congressional Republicans are actively and intentionally sabotaging our health care system, and pharmaceutical companies are gouging consumers to extract huge profits, ensuring the right to access quality health care must be established as a fundamental right for all Americans. “Strengthening the Affordable Care Act, expanding federal Medicare and Medicaid programs, protecting women’s reproductive rights, and working to build a system of universal health coverage are some of the steps Congress must take to ensure that the American people have the assurance and stability they deserve when it comes to receiving health care. “Today, health care continues to be treated as a commodity driven by profit, but it should not be restricted or rationed according to one’s ability to pay, and it most certainly cannot be a system based on survival of the fittest. The leading cause of bankruptcy in America is medical debt. Skyrocketing prescription drug costs, legal threats to the ACA, and rising premiums are only making this problem worse. “Simply put, receiving life-saving medical treatment should not drive a person into poverty. I strongly believe health care is a fundamental right that must be enshrined into the U.S. Constitution.” A constitutional amendment requires two-thirds passage by the House and the Senate and subsequent ratification by three-fourths of the States. # # #
01.04.2019	I want the federal government shutdown ended immediately and all federal workers to go back to work – with full pay. Unfortunately, for the past two weeks President Trump and House Republicans have once again proven they are incapable of responsibly governing our country. Federal employees are not political pawns, but that is exactly how the White House is treating 800,000 employees who are working without pay or on furlough. President Trump is demanding $5.9 billion of taxpayer funds for a border wall. If he doesn’t get his way, he is threatening to keep the government shutdown for months or even the rest of the year. This is outrageous, irresponsible, and a complete dereliction of duty by this president. Yesterday, the new Democratic majority in the House of Representatives approved legislation to fund the government and end the shutdown. I voted to pass legislation which had previously received overwhelming Republican support in the U.S. Senate. It’s now up to the Senate Republicans to act. Democrats are value the work of federal employees and the vital services they provide to keep our country safe, strong and successful. If President Trump refused to end the shutdown then Senate and House Republicans need to stop playing politics and stand united override a White House veto and re-open all federal agencies. It is time to act – NOW!
12.28.2018	Frequently Asked Questions from Constituents on the Trump Government ShutdownCourtesy of Speaker Nancy Pelosi Will my mail still arrive during the shutdown? Yes. The U.S. Postal Service is not affected by a government shutdown. The U.S. Postal Service is an independent entity that is funded through the sale of its products and services, and not by tax dollars. Will I continue to receive my Social Security checks? Yes. During a government shutdown, recipients continue to receive their Social Security checks. Will Medicare and Medicaid be interrupted? No. The operations of Medicare and Medicaid will operate normally during the shutdown. Can I get taxpayer assistance from IRS personnel during the shutdown? It will likely be difficult. If the Trump Shutdown goes into January, it will have a significant impact on the IRS. While the shutdown continues, 90 percent of the IRS staff is furloughed. IRS’s “tax filing season” is January-April. Beginning in January, some Americans will start thinking about filing their 2018 taxes, due April 15, 2019. This will be the first year when Americans are filing their taxes under the new GOP tax law, and many will have numerous questions. If the Trump Shutdown continues, the limited IRS staff will be unable to keep up with the questions coming in from taxpayers using the IRS customer service hotline. Can I get a passport during the shutdown? Perhaps, with it depending on where you live. The U.S. Passport Agency remains open during the shutdown and continues to issue passports. However, depending on where you live, the State Department could curtail issuing passports where those passport services are offered in buildings run by another agency that is shut down. Will I be able to continue visiting the national parks during the shutdown? The Trump Administration claims that the vast majority of national parks are “open” during the shutdown (on the grounds that barriers have not been put up at the parks to prevent entry.) However, the fact is that there are noservices for visitors to National Park Service sites during the shutdown. Services such as restrooms, visitors’ centers, campgrounds, information kiosks, trash removal, and interpretative programs are all closed during the shutdown. The vast majority of National Park Service employees are furloughed. Also, law enforcement staffing is sharply curtailed, so visitors’ safety will be put at risk. Will the Smithsonian Museums continue to be open during the shutdown? The Smithsonian has announced that it has prior-year funds that allow its museums to remain open through Tuesday, January 1. However, it appears that if the shutdown lasts beyond January 1, the museums will have to close. Will I be able to obtain a new flood insurance policy or renew my existing flood insurance policy during the shutdown? No. Just today, Dec. 27, the Trump Administration’s FEMA ruled to not renew the National Flood Insurance Program during the shutdown. The National Association of Realtors (NAR) has stated that today’s decision by FEMA “jeopardizes tens of thousands of home sales across America, as NAR estimates up to 40,000 closings are disrupted each month that the NFIP cannot issue flood insurance policies.” Which federal departments are affected by the Trump Shutdown? There are nine federal departments affected by the Trump Shutdown: Homeland Security, Treasury, Agriculture, Interior, HUD, Justice, Commerce, Transportation, and State. In addition, numerous critical smaller independent agencies, including EPA, the Small Business Administration, and NASA, are affected. (The six federal departments that are already fully funded for FY 2019 and are not affected by the Trump Shutdown are: Defense, Veterans Affairs, HHS, Education, Labor, and Energy.) How many federal employees have to work without pay during the Trump Shutdown? There are approximately 420,000 federal employees, deemed “essential,” including FBI agents, DEA agents, Secret Service agents, and Customs and Border Protection (CBP) agents, who are being required to work without pay during the Trump Shutdown. None of them will receive a paycheck until the shutdown is over and the government re-opens. The longer the Trump Shutdown lasts, the longer they are working without a paycheck, increasing their families’ financial difficulties. How many federal employees have been put on unpaid furlough during the Trump Shutdown?There are also approximately 380,000 federal employees who have been placed on unpaid furlough during the Trump Shutdown. They are also not receiving any pay during the Trump Shutdown. Will the 420,000 federal employees forced to work without pay during the shutdown receive the pay for their work when the shutdown is over? Yes. Under federal law, those federal employees forced to work without pay in the shutdown are guaranteed the pay they have earned when the government re-opens. Will the 380,000 federal employees who were placed on unpaid furlough during the shutdown receive back pay when the shutdown is over? That will be up to the Congress and the White House. Legislation would have to be enacted. The precedent has been that furloughed employees arelater paid, through legislation. Indeed, after every previous shutdown, Congress has passed legislation mandating that furloughed workers get paid. What is the impact of the Trump Shutdown on small businesses? A shutdown halts federal loans to small businesses. During a shutdown, the Small Business Administration stops approving applications for small businesses to obtain loans and guarantees, typically $1 billion per month. Indeed, on Dec. 22, SBA put a notice on Facebook simply stating, “Due to the lapse in government funding, SBA will remain inactive until further notice.” What is the impact on home mortgage applications? During the shutdown, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) will see significant delays in loan processing and approvals, due to the furloughing of most employees. Thousands of people trying to buy a new home or refinance a FHA-insured mortgage will likely be put on standby. What is the impact on FDA’s food safety activities? During the Trump Shutdown, the FDA will be unable to support a number of its food safety activities. FDA has furloughed 40 percent of its employees. As a result, it will have to reduce its routine inspections of domestic food facilities. For example, in the 16-day GOP shutdown in 2013, the FDA had to delay nearly 360 food safety inspections. Attachment: Frequently Asked Questions from Constituents on the Trump Government Shutdown Click here for information about the Minnesota Unemployment Insurance Program.
12.19.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL, MN-04), Lead Democrat of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service, and current Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Native American Caucus, released the following statement regarding the future leadership of the Caucus: "Last month, the American people elected the most diverse and representative Congress in the history of our nation. Our Democratic House Majority in the 116th Congress will include a record number of women and people of color, including the first two Native American women ever to serve in Congress. I am thrilled to have the opportunity to work alongside Congresswomen-elect Deb Haaland (NM-01; Pueblo of Laguna) and Sharice Davids (KS-03; Ho-Chunk Nation). These extraordinary women will bring their experience and leadership to bear for the good of their constituents, tribal nations, and our nation as a whole. For the first time in the 230 years of the United States Congress, Native American women will finally have voices and votes in our federal legislature. "For the past six years, I have been privileged to serve as the Democratic Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Native American Caucus. I am honored by the trust that tribal leaders throughout the nation have placed with me as we have worked together to meet the needs of Indian Country and to fulfill our federal trust and treaty obligations to their sovereign nations. With great respect and appreciation for that trust, I have decided that I will not be seeking re-election to lead the Caucus in the 116th Congress. I invite my fellow Democratic members of the Native American Caucus to join me in enthusiastically supporting our Native American sisters as they seek to lead the Caucus into a new era. "My work in support of the Native American Caucus will continue even as I step down from the Caucus leadership, and I look forward to working with the new Democratic Co-Chair and Republican Co-Chair Tom Cole (OK-04; Chickasaw Nation) to improve our government-to-government relationship with tribal nations.” "I extend my deep and lasting gratitude to my good friend, Native American Caucus Co-Chair Rep. Betty McCollum, for her steadfast and effective leadership in advocating for Indian Country,” said Rep.-elect Haaland. “Betty's unwavering commitment to Indian Country has been remarkable and has helped move the federal government forward in meeting its trust obligations to all native peoples. Betty has protected millions of dollars in critical federal funding for tribes, and she has fought hard to improve the health, safety, and welfare of our people. I look forward to continuing that work with Rep. McCollum and Rep.- Elect Sharice Davids in future Congresses. I am proud to have her blessing and will work hard to continue in her footsteps." "Congresswoman McCollum has been a leader on Native American issues and a friend to our community for years. I want to thank her for her dedication, her collaboration with tribal leaders and Native communities, and all she's done to stand up for the issues that are important to Indian Country. I look forward to working with her in the new Congress to build on the progress she's made." said Rep.-elect Davids. “I am tremendously grateful for Congresswoman Betty McCollum’s leadership on behalf of Indian Country,” said Congressman Cole. “Over the last several years, I have been fortunate to serve alongside her as co-chair of the Native American Caucus, and I am proud of all that we achieved together for tribal nations. In the days ahead, I look forward to continuing to work with her to further advance the conversation on issues of great importance to tribes. Indeed, her contributions remain vital to the cause.”
12.11.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Lead Democrat of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which provided $166 million in fiscal year 2018 for the operation of the National Gallery of Art, released the following statement on the selection of Kaywin Feldman of the Minneapolis Institute of Art as the institution’s incoming director: Kaywin Feldman is a strong, engaging, and innovative leader at the Minneapolis Institute of Art, and I am thrilled she has been selected to become the National Gallery’s next director. Her commitment to expanding the audience for historical and contemporary art, along with her passion for rethinking how we access and engage with museum collections will be a tremendous asset for the Gallery. The selection of a such a talented arts leader from Minnesota for this prominent position is also a tribute to the national and international leadership of the Minneapolis Institute of Art and our state’s art community. We Minnesotans know the value of arts and culture in strengthening our economy, enhancing our quality of life, and bringing together diverse communities. In the next Congress, I am eager to work together with Kaywin from my role on the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee to advance the National Gallery’s mission and sustain strong bipartisan congressional support. My subcommittee provides the funding to maintain and staff the Gallery, and I look forward to working with our new director – the first female director in the Gallery’s history – to welcome everyone to this treasure on the National Mall.
11.26.2018	On Monday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL – Minn.) visited an East Ridge High School engineering class to congratulate student Archit Das for winning the inaugural Fourth Congressional District App Challenge. The app, called Happy Weight!, was chosen by a panel of technology experts from the Fourth Congressional District. Designed to help users lead a healthier lifestyle, the app allows users to track their weight and measure their progress against their weight goals. Das was inspired to create Happy Weight! after learning about how much money Americans spend on treating obesity related illnesses. As winner of this year’s competition, Das will receive Amazon Web Service Credits and may have his entry featured in a display at the U.S. Capitol in Washington, DC. During her visit to East Ridge, Congresswoman McCollum also congratulated App Challenge finalist Raj Patel for his app titled DayCare, which helps people learn about and counter the effects of depression, anxiety, and stress. Other finalists include: Ryan Hill from Mounds View High School who created the app Server Side, which helps people who do not know how to code make their own servers, Grace and Cindy Su from Mounds View High School and Chippewa Middle School who created TutorMe, an app that could help students in need of tutors find and schedule appointments with tutors willing to help, and Chloe Narr from Hill Murray who created the app The Coffee Shoppe, which allows people to order coffee in advance and pick it up at a coffee shop in her community. “It is a pleasure to congratulate Archit Das as the winner of the inaugural Fourth Congressional District App Challenge, and recognize the other finalists! My office and our panel of judges were blown away with the creativity and quality of entries,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Students in Minnesota’s Fourth Congressional District excel in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics (STEAM), and that was apparent when viewing their impressive submissions. All students who entered should be extremely proud of their creativity and hard work. It is exciting to host this competition to foster the next generation of technology superstars.” Judges for the this year’s competition were Sharon Kennedy Vickers, Ted Kozlowski, Chad Poser and Steven Yetter. Sharon Kennedy Vickers is the Chief Information Officer for the City of Saint Paul. She has had leading roles in organizing technology conferences, hackathons, and other initiatives to make Minnesota the best place in the country to launch and grow technology products. Ted Kozlowski is the Mayor of the City of Stillwater and founder and president of the DemandQuest Marketing Institute. A Silicon Valley Veteran, Kozlowski is a seasoned technology sales and marketing executive. Steven Yetter and Chad Poser both work for 3M in Maplewood Minnesota. Yetter is 3M’s Mobile App Developer and Poser is a 3M Application Architect. The Congressional App Challenge is a nationwide STEAM competition where students create an application or “app” for desktop/PC, web, tablet, mobile, or other devices. Fourth Congressional District middle and high school students are encouraged to enter next year’s competition by submitting an app of their own creation by mid-September, 2019. Students are teachers can find more information about the competition at mccollum.house.gov.
11.11.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: On Veterans Day, we take time to honor the brave and selfless service of the women and men of the United States Armed Forces. We dedicate this day to the sacrifices made at home by their families and loved ones who do so much to support our heroes. This Veterans Day also marks a major milestone – the one hundredth anniversary of the Armistice on November 11, 1911. Beyond our gratitude and remembrance, our veterans and their families deserve the unyielding support of our government. From employment opportunities, to access to high-quality health care, to educational assistance, our nation stands ready to meet our obligations to our veterans. Yet there is still much to be done, and I look forward to working in the 116th Congress to serve our veterans and their families with the utmost respect and care.
10.24.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) issued the following statement in response to the recent attempted terror attacks against Democratic leaders and the press: Sending pipe bombs to Democratic leaders and CNN is an act of terrorism inspired by hate. While the perpetrator is unknown at this time, I have every confidence that the brave men and women of law enforcement and the U.S. Postal Service will keep us safe. We all know we are living in a divisive political climate in which dangerous rhetoric intended to incite extremism is all too common. The one voice in America that has inspired division, hate, and bigotry more than any other is the voice of President Donald Trump. Today, the president called for unity days after calling Democrats “evil,” the media “enemies of the people,” and laughing about a Republican congressman’s physical assault on a reporter. If President Trump wants to unify Americans then he can prove it by ending his campaign appearances and divisive rallies which are sowing the dangerous seeds of political extremism. He can start immediately by cancelling his rally tonight in Wisconsin.
10.01.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the House of Representatives passed a five-year reauthorization of the Global Food Security Act. On Friday, the House of Representatives passed by unanimous consent the Senate-passed Global Food Security Act (S. 2269), ensuring that the vital work being done through the Feed the Future Initiative will continue for five years through 2023. Congresswoman McCollum served as the lead Democrat on the House legislation (H.R. 5129), alongside Congressman Chris Smith (R-N.J.), with whom she introduced the Global Food Security Act that was signed into law in 2016. Reauthorizing the Global Food Security Act reaffirms the United States’ commitment to combatting hunger and poverty worldwide. With an authorized spending level of $1,000,600,000, the Global Food Security Act enables the Federal Government to partner with food-insecure countries to get on a path to self-sustainability by supporting agriculture-led economic growth, bolstering small-holder and women-owned farms, and improving maternal and child nutrition. Because of Feed the Future, 23.4 million more people live above the poverty line, 5.2 million more families no longer suffer from hunger, and 3.4 million more children live free from the devastating effects from stunting. In addition to strengthening local and regional economies in some of the world’s poorest countries, these programs are critical to national security. Food insecurity sets the stage for instability and violent extremism in regions that are already highly vulnerable. Feed the Future gives countries the tools they need to feed themselves without relying on food donations from other countries. “The Global Food Security Act has helped save millions of people fighting starvation, malnutrition, and poverty worldwide,” Rep. McCollum said. “Through strategic investments, more women have been empowered to take their livelihoods into their own hands and become self-sufficient.” “I am proud that my colleagues in the House and Senate were able to come together to pass this important legislation. This reauthorization will allow the United States to continue the great work being done to help fight hunger and support self-reliant communities around the world.”
09.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL—Minn.), Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which has oversight responsibility for the United States Chemical and Hazard Investigation Board, is leading a letter to request an interim public meeting for communities affected by the Husky Superior Refinery explosions earlier this year. Her cosigners on the letter include Senator Tammy Baldwin (D—WI.) Representative Rick Nolan (DFL—Minn.), Senator Amy Klobuchar (DFL—Minn.) and Senator Tina Smith (DFL—Minn.). On April 26, 2018, The Husky Superior Refinery was severely damaged in a catastrophic explosion that has raised serious questions about the safety of U.S. refineries using hydrogen fluoride (HF), and the need for safety improvements in these facilities. The accident involved numerous explosions and fires, leading to a 10-mile evacuation zone to the South and 3-mile evacuation zones to the East and West. The Board is currently investigating this incident, and Rep. McCollum and her colleagues are requesting a full public meeting to allow input from refinery communities about the scope of the Board’s investigation. This meeting would also provide an opportunity for public dialogue explaining the Board’s stated grave concerns about the use of HF in urban oil refineries. “Hydrogen fluoride poses a great public risk to the Twin Ports metropolitan area,” Rep. McCollum said in the letter. “Workers, residents, and local officials deserve the opportunity to participate in an interim public meeting to provide input into the Husky Refinery investigatory process.” “We urge you to engage the local community to share the Board’s interim findings regarding the Husky Superior Refinery incident and to discuss any systemic concerns that the Board has with the use of HF in the petrochemical industry.” A PDF copy of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter is available here.
09.21.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL–Minn.) introduced a five-year reauthorization of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) that reaffirms the U.S. commitment to combating HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria. McCollum’s bill, the PEPFAR and Protection for Orphans and Vulnerable Children Act of 2018 (H.R. 6856), extends current law, including the requirement that at least 10% of funds appropriated for PEPFAR to be directed to services for orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) affected by HIV/AIDS. The dedicated funding provision for OVC has been included in the PEPFAR law since 2003, but it is eliminated in the bipartisan PEPFAR reauthorization bill (H.R. 6651) currently moving through the U.S. House. The elimination of the “OVC set aside” is a major policy shift that effectively abandons millions of vulnerable children in the world’s poorest countries. More than 12 million children worldwide are missing one or both parents due HIV/AIDS, with at least 80% living in sub-Saharan Africa. OVC programs are critical to responding directly to the physical, emotional, and economic impacts HIV/AIDS has on vulnerable children. PEPFAR’s dedicated OVC funding guarantees children remain a priority in the global fight against HIV/AIDS. As of September 2017, PEPFAR provided care and support to more than 6.4 million orphans, vulnerable children, and their caregivers worldwide, according U.S. Department of State. In addition, OVC funding enabled 562,000 HIV infected children to receive life-saving drugs in nine sub-Saharan countries. “PEPFAR is saving lives, improving lives, and helping millions of orphans and vulnerable children escape lives of extreme poverty, exploitation, and suffering. My bill extends the current law that guarantees OVC funding, along with all other important elements of PEPFAR,” said McCollum. “Congress must reauthorize PEPFAR with all current provision intact – especially the dedicated funding for orphans and vulnerable children.” The PEPFAR provisions in H.R. 6856, including the OVC set aside, are also included in legislation (S. 3476) recently introduced in the U.S. Senate by Sen. Bob Corker (R-Tenn.) and Sen. Robert Menendez (D-N.J.). For more information on PEPFAR, please reference this factsheet.
09.14.2018	The bipartisan fiscal year 2019 Defense, Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act includes a provision offered by Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) that enables individuals who are diagnosed with cancer to defer payments on their public student loans while actively receiving lifesaving treatment. “We currently allow individuals to defer student loan payments for various qualifying reasons such as going back to school, joining the armed services, looking for a job, or becoming permanently disabled,” Representative McCollum said. “Unfortunately, for the more than 70,000 young adults diagnosed with cancer each year, cancer treatment has not qualified for deferment.” The amendment was modeled off of the Deferment for Active Cancer Treatment Act of 2017, H.R. 2796, introduced by Reps. Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-Fla.) and Ed Perlmutter (D-Colo.). “Cancer patients should not have to worry about their student loan payments while fighting for their lives. I’m so pleased that my colleague, Betty, was able to get this important bill included in the upcoming minibus where it will come to a vote by the full House,” Representative Ros-Lehtinen said. “Along with my colleague, Ed, we have fought to ensure that student loan payments don’t take precedence over health and I urge my colleagues to do the same.” “The hardships created for individuals and families dealing with a cancer diagnosis is only exacerbated by the financial burden of student loans when receiving treatment. This bipartisan provision is a no brainer and choosing between paying your medical bills or paying your student loans is a decision no person should be forced to make.” Representative Perlmutter said. Representative McCollum offered the amendment during the House Appropriations Committee markup of the Health and Human Services, Education and Related Agencies appropriations bill, which the Committee passed on a voice vote. The bipartisan conference committee report is expected to be considered by the Senate and the House in the coming weeks, before the fiscal year deadline. “I hope that without having to worry about making their student loan payments, these patients will be able to focus on what is most important—beating their disease and getting healthy,” Representative McCollum said. “I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, especially Subcommittee Chairman Tom Cole and Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro for working with me on this important amendment,” Representative McCollum said.
09.06.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Lead Democrat of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Department of the Interior and the U.S. Forest Service, released the following statement after U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue announced that the U.S. Forest Service will cancel the environmental review of the mining withdrawal of land adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area (BWCA): Last year, U.S. Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue testified on the record before the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, of which I am the Ranking Member. Secretary Perdue explicitly committed to completing the two-year environmental review of the mining withdrawal of Forest Service lands adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area (BWCA). The secretary said, “I’m not smart enough to know what to do without the facts base and the sound science and we are absolutely allowing that to proceed.” Today, Secretary Perdue broke his word, bending to political pressure from a foreign mining company and abandoning sound science to give a green light to toxic sulfide-ore mining in the watershed that feeds the BWCA. Like the President he serves, Sec. Perdue’s word cannot be trusted. The Trump Administration’s abandonment of the Rainy River Watershed mining withdrawal study is a politically-motivated and callous betrayal of their responsibility to care for our public lands. It completely disregards the scientific evidence that sulfide-ore mining in the watershed will cause irreparable harm to the pristine wilderness of the Boundary Waters. The Trump Administration is eliminating sound science from the equation in order to ram through a destructive giveaway to their friends at a foreign-owned mining corporation. Anyone in Congress or running for Congress who supports this action, Republican or Democrat, turns their back on sound science and the engagement of the American public in this study. And they are certainly betraying the BWCA – our national treasure. Secretary Perdue told me on the record that “the buck stops here. I am the U.S. Agricultural Secretary.” This attack on the most visited wilderness area in the U.S. rests with Sec. Perdue and an administration that is once again exploiting profits from our public lands Read the unofficial transcript of Sec. Perdue's congressional testimony on the Superior National Forest Mineral Withdrawal here.
07.26.2018	Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, is participating in a two day Congressional factfinding mission led by Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands focusing on post-hurricane Maria federal recovery efforts. “Almost one year after hurricane Maria ravaged Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the people residing in these U.S. territories are still trying to rebuild,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Significant work remains to be done in repairing the billions of dollars in damage caused by natural disasters. The fact is that our fellow American citizens continue to suffer.” “As the lead Democrat of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I am committed to ensuring these agencies have the funding they require and are held accountable for meeting the urgent needs of the people of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands.” Congresswoman McCollum said. The House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee has jurisdiction over the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Forest Service, all of which are responsible for conducting major recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Congresswoman McCollum, along with 13 other House Democrats, will meet with families, local officials and leaders, faith groups, faith groups, and community groups to discuss effective recovery efforts and what steps must be taken to ensure that every community receives the resources it needs to rebuild.
07.24.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after she voted against the Protect Medical Innovation Act of 2017 (H.R. 184): The medical device industry serves a vital role in Minnesota by supporting thousands of jobs and providing lifesaving technology. Nonetheless, repealing the medical device tax without a fiscal offset only intensifies the Republican sabotage of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). I represent 700,000 constituents and the majority have made it clear the ongoing attacks on the ACA and our healthcare system are intolerable. Therefore, I cannot support a tax cut on medical devices while the White House and Republicans in Congress continue to cut healthcare for millions of Americans, including stripping protections for individuals with preexisting conditions. The fiscal shortsightedness of this legislation is deeply troubling. Like most corporations, medical device companies received billions in tax cuts that were completely unpaid for in the recent Republican tax overhaul. Repealing the medical device tax would give another tax break in excess of $20 billion to these same medical device companies with devastating fiscal implications. Unfortunately, it has become clear that Republicans plan to cover the costs of these deficit-exploding tax measures by forcing drastic cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. It is simply unacceptable that these already cash-strapped programs will be forced to foot the bill for corporate tax cuts. Considering that the Republican tax bill eliminated healthcare coverage for 13 million people, we should be investing in earned benefit programs now that the need for them is greater than ever. Passing yet another unpaid tax break simply makes these pending cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security all the more likely. A bipartisan, responsible bill should be drafted that allows the medical device sector to continue to innovate and invest without this target tax, but any solution needs to be paid for and it should have broad support from Republicans and Democrats.
07.24.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in regards to her bill, the Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Detention of Palestinian Children Act, H.R. 4391. Video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks can be seen here. Congresswoman McCollum's full remarks are below: Mr. Speaker, over the past decade Congress has provided Israel with more than $30 billion in security assistance. Israel’s security is important. But according to UNICEF, Israel is the only country in the world that systematically uses its military to arrest, interrogate, and imprison children – Palestinian children – some as young as 12 years old. Countless cases of mistreatment, solitary confinement, and forced confessions have been documented by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, and our own State Department. We must ensure that no U.S. tax dollars are supporting the mistreatment and abuse of Palestinian children. I urge colleagues to co-sponsor H.R. 4391: a bill to prohibit U.S. funds from supporting Israel’s violent military detention and abuse of Palestinian children. This abuse must stop. Peace in the Middle East can only be achieved by respecting human rights, ensuring Israel’s security, and promoting equality and justice for Palestinians. I yield back.
07.19.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House approved the FY2019 Interior-Environment appropriations bill: Today, House Republicans passed an Interior-Environment appropriations bill that fails the American people. This bill cuts environmental protections; removes safeguards for our air, water, and endangered species; and allows rampant corruption at the Executive Branch to go unchecked. It was an honor to lead House Democrats over two days of debate in our efforts to improve the bill. Democrats were able to secure a few meaningful victories on the floor when we defeated amendments that attacked the Antiquities Act, grants for Environmental Justice, and the Land and Water Conservation Fund. However, the Republican majority made this bad bill even worse by adding toxic partisan riders and making deeper cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and the Fish and Wildlife Service. There were a few bright spots of bipartisan cooperation in this bill, including increases in funding for our National Parks; defending the arts and humanities; and continued support for Native American health, education and safety. But this is not enough to overcome the elements of this bill that put our environment and public health at risk. That is why Democrats were united in voting against this bill. We owe it to the American people to do better. I look forward to working with the Chairman and my colleagues in the Senate to bring a better bill back to the House Floor.
07.13.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in response to the announcement that the Army Futures Command will be headquartered in Austin, Texas. The Twin Cities metro region put together an incredible bid for the Army Futures Command headquarters. I want to thank Governor Dayton, the Minnesota Department of Employment and Economic Development, Greater MSP, the University of Minnesota, and every state and local official involved in the effort. The fact that the Twin Cities was a finalist out of fifteen regions shows that our metro area is filled with brilliant innovators, tremendous research capacity, and that we are able to compete against anyone. Congratulations to Austin, Texas on their successful bid.
07.12.2018	Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) yesterday offered an amendment during the Labor, Health and Human Services, Education appropriations bill markup that would permit individuals who are diagnosed with cancer to defer payments on their public student loans while they receive lifesaving treatment. This amendment was adopted by the House Appropriations Committee. “In certain circumstances such as going back to school, joining the armed services, and becoming permanently disabled, we allow individuals to defer their public student loan payments,” Representative McCollum said. “Unfortunately, for the more than 70,000 young adults diagnosed with cancer each year, cancer treatment does not qualify for deferment. These patients have enough problems to deal with and quite frankly, paying their student loans should not be one of them.” The amendment would allow individuals who are receiving cancer treatment to defer payments on their loans for up to 6 months after their treatment concludes. Additionally, the House Appropriations Committee adopted an amendment offered by Representative Katherine Clark (D-MA) and Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn) that would prevent the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) from medicating children taken into detention at the U.S.-Mexico border without parental consent or access to proper medical records. With thousands of unaccompanied children being separated from their parents under the Trump administration’s zero-tolerance policy, this amendment will provide protection from negligent medical treatment. “Not only is drugging frightened children outrageous and unacceptable, it is downright dangerous to the child’s health,” Representative McCollum said. “Here in the US, a school nurse can’t administer medicine to a young student without parental consent unless it is an absolute emergency. Administering these drugs without proper medical records and parental consent could lead to catastrophic health side effects.” The Clark-McCollum amendment would ensure that no ORR funds may be used to medicate unaccompanied children unless a proper medical evaluation is performed, or in the case of a medical emergency.
07.05.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the announcement of Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt’s resignation: This resignation is long overdue. Instead of fulfilling the EPA’s mission to protect human health and the environment, Mr. Pruitt used his office for personal enrichment and to promote an anti-science, pro-polluter agenda. The American people deserve better than the culture of corruption, cronyism, and incompetence that is pervasive in the Trump administration and embodied by Pruitt's time as Administrator of the EPA. In an administration plagued by ethical scandals, Mr. Pruitt was one of the most flagrant offenders. Congresswoman McCollum has repeatedly called for Mr. Pruitt’s resignation since his dishonest testimony in front of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee on April 26, 2018.
06.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court decision to uphold the Trump travel ban: Today’s Supreme Court decision to uphold President Trump’s executive order targeting refugees and Muslim immigrants will go down in history alongside Dred Scott v. Sandford and Korematsu v. United States as a ruling that Americans will look back on in shame. President Trump’s long record of bigoted remarks about Muslims clearly show that his travel ban is based on religious intolerance. For the Supreme Court to uphold this patently discriminatory religious ban is an appalling betrayal of American values.
06.25.2018	Each June, we celebrate LGBTQ Pride Month. This month is a time to celebrate the progress that the United States has made in LGBTQ equality and to recommit to the work that is still necessary to create a more inclusive society for everyone – regardless of who you are or whom you love. As we celebrate in Minnesota, we recognize the generations of activism and the decades of contributions made to our state and our nation by our vibrant LGBTQ community. Minnesota has long been a leader in LGBTQ equality, and in 1993 as a member of the Minnesota State House, I was proud to vote to ban workplace discrimination in our state. In 2012, Minnesotans voted to let love win and pass marriage equality, and Minnesotans can be proud that their activism helped pave the way for nationwide marriage equality. Yet there is still so much work to do, and Pride Month is also a call to redouble our commitment to ending the discrimination that LGBTQ Americans continue to face in all walks of life. As the Trump administration continues to implement a bigoted agenda that rolls back protections for the LGBTQ community, we must stand together and fight back for equality. Together, we will continue to build a nation where all Americans are treated with dignity and everyone can take pride in their future.
06.19.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor opposing the Trump Administration's harmful policy of separating families at the U.S.-Mexico border: I oppose President Trump’s outrageous policy of separating families on our southern border.Tearing children from the arms of their parents, confining them in cages with children caring for one another should never happen anywhere in the world. And it should never happen in America. The National Association of School Psychologists calls this - “emotional violence.” They go on to say - “Such trauma can have life-long consequences with respect to children’s mental and behavioral health.” This is a human rights violation committed by the Trump administration. And make no mistake – President Trump has the power to end this today. When the President says that he is required by law to enact this policy, or when he blames Democrats for the crisis he has created – Mr. President – you are not telling the truth. So tomorrow, you don’t need to campaign in Minnesota. You need to stay in Washington. Stop this heartless policy. The American people demand these children be given back to their parents. End this crisis – now. I yield back.
06.15.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s outrageous policy of separating families at the U.S. border with Mexico: The family separation policy directed by President Trump and Attorney General Sessions is literally tearing parents away from children on our border with Mexico. Confining children without their parents in detention centers should stun us, and the idea that any baby in America would be ripped from the arms of a breastfeeding mother should outrage us. Every American should call this what it is. A gross human rights violation committed by the Trump administration. Make no mistake, there is no law that requires this. The decision to impose these cruel family separation practices begins and ends with President Trump. Republican leadership in the House of Representatives must immediately bring to the floor legislation that Democrats will be introducing next week to end this horrific practice and reunite these families at once.
06.06.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today led House Democrats opposing the fiscal year 2019 Interior-Environment Appropriations bill during the Appropriations Committee’s mark-up of the legislation. House Republicans advanced their bill on a 25-20 vote with all Democrats voting in opposition. “The Interior-Environment bill funds important safeguards for clean air and clean water, conservation of our public lands and endangered species, and vital investments in Native health, education, and the safety of tribal communities,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This bill includes riders that undermine these efforts and makes unacceptable cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency.” Despite an increased cap for non-defense discretionary spending, the Interior-Environment bill is flat funded. Under this allocation House Republicans chose to cut funding for the EPA – which protects human health and the environment – by $100 million. Additionally, the Republican majority rejected numerous Democratic amendments during today’s markup that would have held administration officials accountable for their usage of taxpayer dollars. “If enacted, the cuts in this bill will further undermine the EPA’s ability to keep our families and communities healthy and to protect our environment for future generations,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Today Democrats attempted to remove partisan riders that put polluter profits above the health and wellbeing of the American people and our environment. We also tried to hold Trump administration officials like EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt accountable for their ethical lapses and reckless spending decisions. Republicans refused to stray from party lines and voted down these reasonable attempts to reign in corruption.” Congresswoman McCollum’s full opening statement at the House Appropriations Committee mark-up is available here.
06.06.2018	I would like to thank the Chairman and his staff for their work on another successful omnibus. The Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus sent a clear message that Congress rejects President Trump’s reckless budget proposals. I am pleased that we were able to pass a bipartisan omnibus appropriations bill that included vital funding for the important agencies under this subcommittee’s jurisdiction. It also removed many riders that made the bill too toxic for Democrats to support. I am also pleased this Committee successfully negotiated a wildfire funding fix by incorporating many of Chairman Simpson’s ideas. Unfortunately, this fix will not take effect until 2020, so we are still seeing the impacts of rising fire costs in this year’s bill. Turning to the bill before us this morning, the Interior and Environment subcommittee allocation is $35 billion, equal to the Fiscal Year 2018 enacted level. While Democrats would have written some things differently, the Chairman’s bill maintains many of the investments. I am pleased that funding for health care, education, and criminal justice needs in Indian Country continues to be a nonpartisan priority for this subcommittee. The bill also continues last year’s efforts to address the backlog of deferred maintenance on federal lands, and continues funding for important grant programs within the Historic Preservation Fund. Yet, once again, the Majority proposing to cut the Environmental Protection Agency. While the proposed reduction is not as bad as in years past, a $100 million cut is unacceptable. These cuts target air and water quality programs, and reduce funding to enforce the law against polluters. If enacted, they will undermine the EPA’s ability to keep our families and communities healthy, and to protect our environment for future generations. I must also express my opposition to the $14 million provided in this bill for the Department of the Interior to begin carrying out Secretary Zinke’s massive and ill-conceived reorganization. To be clear, I am not opposed to the idea of reorganization at the Department of the Interior. But this committee has a responsibility to ensure that there is proper planning and meaningful consultation. During the testimony of more than 80 tribal leaders, we heard repeated concerns about the lack of consultation and opposition to the reorganization as currently proposed. We should not allow the Department to begin implementation of this major undertaking when there has not been sufficient input from all stakeholders, or a complete explanation to this Committee of the details and associated costs. Members should also be concerned that the Department is failing to obligate the funds we appropriate in a timely manner. In February, Congress appropriated $516 million to Interior for recovery from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. As of the week of May 14th, $3 million was obligated – which means the Department had withheld $513 million. This is unacceptable when hurricane season begins this month. The Department, until May 21st was also withholding the Bureaus’ Fiscal Year 2018 spend plans. Intense Congressional pressure got the funds moving, but these bureaucratic delays have real consequences, such as nearly closing several National Heritage Areas. We clearly need additional controls in this bill to ensure that the Department does not delay disbursement of funds that Congress has appropriated. The Environmental Protection Agency is also in desperate need of this Committee’s oversight. Last month, the Government Accountability Office determined that EPA violated Section 710 of the Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, and the Anti-deficiency Act. EPA failed to notify this Committee of the purchase of a $43,000 soundproof privacy booth in Administrator Pruitt’s office. EPA has yet to provide the Committee with the report required by law regarding this violation. This is not an isolated case of financial abuse by EPA leadership. Currently, there are at least 14 federal investigations examining Administrator Pruitt’s spending and management practices. Frankly, I am shocked that Administrator Pruitt has not been removed from President Trump’s cabinet when other Cabinet members were removed for far less egregious abuses. If the Agency’s leadership does not have a moral compass, and President Trump refuses to exercise control, then Congress must step in and protect taxpayers from Administrator Pruitt’s wasteful spending. Finally, I must also voice my objection to the fourteen policy riders included in this bill. They would undermine clean air and clean water standards, put the health and safety of American families at risk, and roll back protections for endangered species. With Republican control of the Congress and the White House, it is long past time for the Majority to stop imposing riders like these on the appropriations process. The authorizers should do their work in their Committees. Mr. Chairman, I see the effort you have put into this bill and I commit to working with you throughout the fiscal year 2019 process. In the meantime, because of the poison pill riders in this bill and the failure to provide the needed allocation for the agencies, I must oppose this bill. Of course, that might change if we can pass some of the Democratic amendments today, Mr. Chair! Thank you and, I yield back.
06.01.2018	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump's announcement to impose tariffs on U.S. allies: President Trump’s decision to launch a trade war with America’s closest allies and trading partners, Canada, the European Union, and Mexico by citing national security concerns is a betrayal of our friends and shames our nation. How President Trump could think that Canada poses a national security risk to the United States is simply incomprehensible. Canadian soldiers fought and died to defend freedom alongside their American brothers and sisters in World War II. In the aftermath of 9/11, Canadians sheltered Americans stranded by the shutdown of air traffic over North America for days. Simply put, America has no closer economic partner, national security ally, or friend than Canada. Alarmingly, the decision to impose harmful tariffs on these nations fits a pattern. Since he took office, President Trump has continued to create opportunity for America’s adversaries, while undermining alliances and U.S. global leadership. Recently he pledged to help protect the Chinese tech firm ZTE, a company that U.S. intelligence officials have highlighted as a cybersecurity risk to our country. He has continuously refused to implement Congressionally mandated sanctions against Russia after they interfered in the 2016 election. And now, as he negotiates with the dictator in North Korea, President Trump goes out of his way to unilaterally start a trade war and alienate our closest allies. The truth is that these actions are detrimental to global peace and security. Day by day, President Trump continues to isolate America from our partners, damage U.S. relationships around the world, and put the security of the American people at risk.
05.24.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in observance of Memorial Day: “This Memorial Day, we remember and reflect upon those who have lost their lives protecting our nation and defending freedom at home and abroad. Since the Civil War, Americans have set aside the last Monday in May as a sacred day to commemorate our fallen heroes and reflect on their sacrifices." "As we observe Memorial Day, we also remember the families, loved ones, and friends that they left behind, and we recognize all those who volunteer to serve today in our Armed Forces. As always, we remain thankful for your selfless devotion to the United States."
05.22.2018	At a recent event for family, educators, and area service academy representatives, Congresswoman Betty McCollum recognized eight Fourth District individuals who will attend U.S. Service Academies this fall. Congresswoman McCollum nominated each of the eight Fourth District residents to their respective U.S. Service Academies. Each received and accepted an appointment to attend. The individuals are: Joseph Becker of Dellwood (Hill-Murray School) – U.S. Military Academy Calvin Ciganik of Roseville (Mounds View H.S.) – U.S. Air Force Academy Bjorn Holm of Saint Paul (The Blake School) – U.S. Air Force Academy Spc. Benjamin Lundquist, U.S. Army of Oakdale (Tartan H.S.) – U.S. Military Academy Anastasia Sawyer of Woodbury (East Ridge H.S.) – U.S. Naval Academy Katherine Sawyer of Woodbury (East Ridge H.S.) – U.S. Air Force Academy Connor Schellenbach of Woodbury (Woodbury H.S.) – U.S. Naval Academy Lucas Smith of Woodbury (Hill-Murray School) – U.S. Air Force Academy “I am inspired by what these students have already achieved here in the Fourth District and I am very proud to support their ongoing commitment to serve our country,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am delighted that they will all be attending U.S. Service Academies this fall.”
05.17.2018	The House Appropriations Committee today adopted an amendment offered by Representatives Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and Tom Cole (R-Okla.) that protects tribal nations across the country from a drastic cut to the supports and services they are developing to help survivors of violent crime. “Congress has an obligation to meet the safety and justice needs of tribal nations. This amendment restores dedicated funding for tribal nations to build the networks of crisis centers, shelters, and other services that support survivors of violence,” Representative McCollum said. “I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, especially my Congressional Native American Caucus Co-Chair Representative Tom Cole, for working with me on this important amendment.” The McCollum-Cole Amendment, which modifies the Commerce-Justice-Science (CJS) appropriations bill, passed on a voice vote. “Unfortunately, Indian country has some of the highest crime rates in America‎. This amendment ensures that the federal government and the Justice Department do more to fulfill their responsibility to combat crime and protect victims in Indian country,” Representative Cole said. “I’d like to thank my colleague and fellow Native American Caucus Co-Chair Representative McCollum for helping lead the passage of this critical amendment so that tribal communities retain the right to have quality law enforcement and judicial protection.” The McCollum-Cole amendment allocates five percent of the disbursements from the Crime Victims Fund (CVF) to tribal governments. The National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence submitted a letter to the Chairman and the Ranking Member of the CJS Subcommittee supporting this five percent set-aside, showing the broad support among victims advocate groups for allowing tribal nations to continue to access the high-quality, life-saving services the CVF builds.
05.16.2018	Before I turn to the bill before us, I would like to thank the Chairman and his staff for their collaboration on another successful omnibus. The Fiscal Year 2018 Omnibus sent a clear message that Congress rejects Trump’s reckless whims, which would exploit our natural resources, desecrate our environment, and jeopardize the health of millions of Americans. We were able to come together and pass a bipartisan appropriations bill that stripped out dozens of ridersand provided vital funding for the important agencies under this subcommittee’s purview. The foundation for our success was laid in February, when Congress passed a bipartisan budget agreement to increase non-defense discretionary spending for two years. I am frustrated that even though the topline 302(a) spending level is set in law, the Majority is once again carrying out a secretive, piecemeal approach to the subcommittees’ 302(b) allocations. This lack of transparency places the entire Committee at a disadvantage and undermines our work. This year, the Interior and Environment subcommittee allocation is $35 billion and is equal to the Fiscal Year 2018 enacted level. While I would have written some things differently, the Chairman’s bill maintains many of the investments that we made in the fiscal year 2018 omnibus. I am pleased that funding for health care, education, and criminal justice needs in Indian country continue to be a nonpartisan priority for this subcommittee. The bill also continues last year’s efforts to address the backlog of deferred maintenance on federal lands, and continues funding for important grant programs within the National Park Service’s Historic Preservation Fund. Unfortunately, once again the majority proposes to slash the EPA. Even though the proposed reduction is far more restrained than in past years, a $100 million cut is untenable. The cuts target air and water quality programs, and reduce funding to enforce against polluters. If enacted, they will undermine the EPA’s ability to keep our families and communities healthy, and to protect our environment for future generations. I must also express my opposition to the $18 million provided in this bill for the Department of the Interior to begin carrying out Secretary Zinke’s massive and ill-conceived reorganization. As I have said many times in this Subcommittee, I am not opposed to the idea of reorganization at the Department. But we should not be rushing to fund this major undertaking when there has not been sufficient input from stakeholders, or a complete explanation to this Committee of the details and associated costs. Just last week, our subcommittee listened to the testimony of more than 80 tribes. Not one tribe supported the reorganization. The overwhelming majority strongly opposed it, because it is not well thought out and it runs roughshod over our treaty obligation to conduct consultation. I fear that the reorganization, as currently imagined, will have long-term harmful effects on the ability of the Department to fulfill its mission. I truly believe that this committee has a responsibility to ensure that the Department does proper planning and conducts meaningful consultation. Until this is done, we should not allow the Department to begin implementation. I am also disappointed that the bill fails to address, or even acknowledge, that EPA leadership is deficient in meeting its fiduciary responsibilities. Last month, the Government Accountability Office determined that EPA violated Section 710 of the Fiscal Year 2017 Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, and the Anti-deficiency Act. These violations stem from EPA’s failure to notify this Committee of the purchase of a $43,000 soundproof privacy booth in Administrator Pruitt’s office. EPA has yet to provide the Committee with the statutorily-required Anti-deficiency Act report regarding this violation. This is not an isolated case of financial abuse by EPA leadership. Currently, there are 11 federal investigations examining Administrator Pruitt’s spending and management practices. His sweetheart deals with lobbyists and his extravagant travel on the taxpayer’s dime are appalling. I am profoundly disturbed by reports that while in Italy, on a trip that cost more than $120,000 of federal funds, Administrator Pruitt knowingly dined with a Cardinal who is facing sexual abuse charges, and then took steps to hide the dinner from the public. Frankly, I am furious that Administrator Pruitt still has a place on President Trump’s cabinet. EPA desperately needs our oversight. If the Agency’s leadership does not have a moral compass, we must step in and be the back-stop to protect taxpayers from Administrator Pruitt’s wasteful spending. Finally, I must also voice my objection to the dozen policy riders included in this bill. They would undermine clean air and clean water standards, put the health and safety of American families at risk, and roll back protections for endangered species. With Republican control of the White House and both chambers, I do not understand why the Majority continues to impose riders like these on the appropriations process. Mr. Chairman, I see the effort you have put into this bill and I commit to working with you throughout the fiscal year 2019 process. For two years in a row, this Committee has shown that when we come together in a bipartisan fashion, we are able to negotiate an omnibus that is in the best interest of the American people. I hope we can continue this track record. Thank you, I yield back.
05.03.2018	In his testimony before the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee last month, I asked Secretary Zinke about the threat of sulfide-ore copper mining in the watershed of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. Secretary Zinke affirmed that some places are too precious to mine, but it seems as though the watershed of the BWCA does not qualify. Yesterday, the Bureau of Land Management officially reinstated two foreign-owned mining leases on the doorstep of the BWCA, along a river that flows directly into the wilderness. This decision is an attack on our treasured public lands and opens the door for toxic mining to cause irreparable damage to the watershed. Studies have shown that 92 percent of sulfide-ore copper mines operating in the United States have experienced failures that impact water quality. The environmental and economic consequences would be devastating if acid mine drainage polluted the BWCA’s waterways, aquatic life, and forests. The Trump administration has shown time and again that they put the profits of mining and fossil fuel companies before the preservation of the American people’s natural treasures. This decision is a betrayal of every Minnesotan and American who believes in conservation and preserving our natural resources for the benefit of future generations.
05.02.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today announced the winners of her 2018 Congressional Art Competition. Catherine Jackson of Roseville Area High School took first place for her artwork entitled "Old Habits." Kaocheneng Yang of North High School finished in second place, while Nhu Nguyen of Roseville Area High School finished third. The winning and runner-up entries can be viewed here. "The Fourth District has incredible artistic talent and I am proud to help showcase it through the Congressional Art Competition," Congresswoman McCollum said. “My office was truly blown away by the incredible talent of these young artists.” Beginning in June, the winning entry will be displayed as part of a national exhibit in the U.S. Capitol. In addition, Runners-up will be displayed in Congresswoman McCollum's offices in Saint Paul and in Washington, D.C. The competition was open to Fourth District high school students and attracted dozens of entries.
04.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency Inspector General’s office confirmed that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt misled her and Congress: “The Inspector General office’s statement this afternoon confirms that EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt intentionally misled Congress today about the justifications for his lavish first-class travel and outrageous security spending. When I called him on his false statements, he doubled down. He was lying both times. “Administrator Pruitt’s pattern of deception is exactly why I called for his resignation after listening to him today. Instead of coming clean, he deceived Congress while constantly blaming his actions on others. A Cabinet member must be honest and trustworthy, but Administrator Pruitt has shown he is neither. He has lost all credibility and it is time for him to go.”
04.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following opening remarks at the Subcommittee's hearing with Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt on April 26, 2018: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Administrator Pruitt, thank you for being here today. The fiscal year 2019 EPA budget is reckless, irresponsible, and unrealistic. Two months ago, Congress passed a bipartisan budget agreement to increase non-defense discretionary spending for two years. A month ago, in a show of bipartisanship, the fiscal year 2018 omnibus was enacted into law. We soundly rejected President Trump’s reckless proposals that would desecrate our environment, starve federal agencies of the funding needed to meet critical missions, and jeopardize the health of millions of Americans. President Trump’s first year in office has damaged our environment, public health, and natural resources. Today we will discuss many of these damaging policies and your role in turning back regulations that protect our environment. But that is not our only concern with your performance as EPA Administrator. All of us, whether elected or appointed, have a responsibility to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars. In just one year as EPA Administrator, you have violated the public trust by abusing EPA resources and taxpayer dollars. Your decisions and actions have displayed a disregard for the ethical standards to which all public officials should adhere. Administrator Pruitt, you are letting down the American people and your agency. Your actions are distracting EPA from its core mission and creating a toxic work environment that has demoralized your staff. One significant action that has proven to be not only unnecessary, but also unethical and unlawful, was your use of $43,000 to construct a privacy booth in your office. The Government Accountability Office found that you violated the Anti-Deficiency Act and another appropriations law by your failure to notify the Committee prior to the use of those funds. This is just one example of the poor judgment that continues to plague you. I also have concerns about your work that extend far beyond your ethical lapses, and which undercut the mission of EPA. Thankfully, our government is built upon the principle of checks and balances, and the courts are striking down much of the substandard work done by you and your political team. The courts have already ruled that EPA acted illegally in its efforts to undermine the Methane and Ozone rules. Based on your pattern of hasty and careless work, I expect that the courts will continue to rule against your reckless roll backs. Administrator Pruitt, let me remind you, the law requires that the delay of a regulation or issuance of a new rule be based on solid science. You cannot just ignore the requirements of the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, or other bedrock environmental laws. But even though your work is turning out to be ineffective, we cannot ignore the danger that your policies pose for the American people. Climate change is the greatest environmental threat our planet faces, and your actions jeopardize our future, our national security, and the health of our communities. Withdrawing from the Paris Climate Accord or watering down fuel efficiency standards will harm the health of our children and grandchildren. Rolling back regulations that limit emissions will mean more cases of asthma in children. Keeping harmful pesticides on the market will damage children’s brain development. Your approach is bad for the environment, bad for public health, and bad for business. Furthermore, it is a waste of taxpayer’s money to develop regulations that ultimately will be overruled by the courts. You are falling short, and you are failing all Americans and your own agency by not achieving the mission of the EPA to protect human health and the environment. The recently-passed fiscal year 2018 omnibus clearly shows that Congress values a healthy environment. We will not support President Trump’s budget or your efforts to cripple the EPA with draconian cuts. Mr. Chairman, I pledge to work with you and our colleagues in Congress to maintain funding levels that allow EPA to continue to protect our environment. No matter what Administrator Pruitt may do to prioritize the profits of fossil fuel and chemical corporations, it falls to Congress to ensure that the air we breathe and the water we drink is safe for the American people. Thank you Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
04.25.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) took third place in today’s Minnesota Delegation Hotdish Competition with her entry “SPAM Good Hotdish.” The eighth annual competition, hosted for the first time by Senator Tina Smith (DFL-Minn.), featured entries of Minnesota’s signature dish from every member of the state’s Congressional delegation. “Nothing brings Minnesotans together like hotdish. I’m pleased that Senator Smith has continued this friendly competition with our state’s favorite comfort food,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Congratulations to Rep. Tom Emmer on winning today, and thanks again to my colleagues for sharing their favorite hotdish recipes with all of us.” Congresswoman McCollum’s recipe for “SPAM Good Hotdish” is below: SPAM Good Hotdish 1 12 oz. package of egg noodles 1 12 oz. can Spam 2 tbsp. olive oil 1 cup diced yellow onion 1 cup diced green pepper 2 tbsp. butter 1 10.5oz can condensed cream of mushroom soup 1 cup light cream 4 oz. can diced pimentos 1 tsp. salt 1 tsp. pepper Pinch paprika Enough fried onions to cover 2 oz. can diced pimentos 1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley Cook noodles in a large stockpot according to the package instructions. While the noodles are cooking, use a skillet to fry the diced spam in olive oil on medium heat until warm throughout. Drain noodles, return to stockpot, and fold in the warmed Spam. Keep mixture on medium-low heat. In a saucepan, sauté the diced onion and pepper in butter until tender. Fold diced vegetables into the stockpot with the noodles-Spam mixture and keep on low heat. In separate pot, combine cream of mushroom soup and cream. Cook until warm. Add warm, combined soup to stockpot, stirring well to mix. Add 4 oz. can of pimentos and spices to stockpot and fully combine. Transfer mix to greased casserole dish, top with fried onions and the 2 oz. can of pimentos, and bake uncovered at 350 degrees for 30 minutes. Garnish with parsley before serving.
04.20.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on Earth Day, which will be celebrated on Sunday: “Earth Day is a time to reflect on our stewardship of the air we breathe, the water we drink, and this precious planet we all call home. It calls us to celebrate our natural treasures and renew our commitment to protecting the Earth for future generations. “Once upon a time, Republicans and Democrats came together to establish the Environmental Protection Agency and tackle the real issue of climate change. Sadly, the Trump White House and Congressional Republicans have turned their backs on that commitment. “We have come too far to turn back now to the bad old days of noxious smog in our major cities, rivers so polluted that they catch fire, and toxic waste sites that spread cancer in our communities. Today, we recommit ourselves to fighting for clean air, clean water, protected public lands, and action on climate change. Our Earth hangs in the balance. It is up to us to act to protect our planet for ourselves and for future generations.”
04.16.2018	The Government Accountability Office today responded to a request from U.S. Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-N.M.) with a finding that the Environmental Protection Agency violated federal law by purchasing a $43,000 phone booth for Administrator Scott Pruitt’s office – and then hiding that purchase from Congress. In its report, the GAO found: “The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) violated section 710 when it failed to notify the appropriations committees prior to obligating in excess of $5,000 for the installation of a soundproof privacy booth for the office of the Administrator during the period of his appointment. Because EPA used its appropriations in a manner specifically prohibited by law, EPA violated the Antideficiency Act and should report a violation as required by 31 U.S.C. § 1351.” “Today’s GAO report is the latest proof of the rampant corruption and misconduct at the Environmental Protection Agency under Administrator Pruitt. There are few greater examples of government waste than a $43,000 phone booth. Now we know that the purchase wasn’t just unnecessary and wasteful, but actually illegal. Worse still, this is part of a pattern of abuse of power, ethics violations, and disrespect for the rule of law by Administrator Pruitt. The American people deserve so much better than the culture of corruption, cronyism, and incompetence that is pervasive at Administrator Pruitt’s EPA. If President Trump won’t hold Administrator Pruitt accountable, Congress must,” U.S. Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), ranking member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies. “Scott Pruitt likes to talk about returning the EPA to the rule of law, but it turns out he’s better at breaking it than following it. The GAO has found that the EPA and Scott Pruitt violated federal law by hiding the purchase of the $43,000 ‘privacy booth’ built in Administrator Pruitt’s office. This is just one more example of how Scott Pruitt is blatantly breaking laws and ethics rules that protect taxpayers from government waste, fraud and abuse in order to help himself to perks and special favors – and taking deliberate steps to hide everything from Congress and taxpayers. An illegal privacy booth to conduct secret discussions with his polluter friends does nothing to help our health or environment. Scott Pruitt is behaving like Swamp emperor rather than EPA administrator – he has shown a shocking lack of regard for public health and safety, ethics and fairness, and the list of ways he has abused his office just keeps getting longer,” U.S. Senator Tom Udall (D-NM), ranking member of the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies. The GAO report found that the Environmental Protection Agency violated Section 710 of the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2017 (section 710) prohibits an agency from obligating an amount in excess of $5,000 to furnish, redecorate, purchase furniture for, or make improvements for the office of a presidential appointee during the period of appointment without prior notification to the appropriations committees of Congress. The statutory language of section 710 requires notification not only for the purchase of furniture and for aesthetic changes, but also for supplying the office with other equipment.
04.13.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today applauded Senators Susan Collins (R-Maine) and Amy Klobuchar (DFL-Minn.) for introducing the Senate companion to Congresswoman McCollum’s Community Action Opioid Response Act. “The opioid epidemic has ravaged cities, suburbs, and tribal nations in Minnesota and across the United States. My bipartisan bill helps communities respond to the needs of low-income people and families in crisis because of the opioid epidemic and I am very appreciative that Senators Collins and Klobuchar are introducing companion legislation in the Senate,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Working together, we can make a real difference for people affected by this public health emergency.” In February, Congresswoman McCollum and Congressman Lloyd Smucker (R-Pa.) introduced the Community Action Opioid Response Act, H.R. 5124. The legislation establishes a competitive grant program to expand and support effective community efforts to identify and respond to the causes and consequences of opioid misuse and addiction experienced by low-income individuals, families, and communities. Uniquely positioned to address these needs, Community Action Agencies would compete for three-year grants ranging from $50,000 to $1 million per year. Grants under the Community Action Opioid Response Act could support a wide range of activities designed to prevent and treat addiction, stabilize the lives of addicted individuals, and support their children and families. Grant applicants would undergo rigorous screening by a 15-member review panel under the Department of Health and Human Services. There are more than 1,000 Community Action Agencies across the country, each governed by a board that represents all sectors of the local community, including its low-income residents. Funded through the Community Services Block Grant, they have well-established and wide-ranging networks of private and public partners, including health care providers, social service organizations, the judicial system, local governments, and thousands of local volunteers.
04.11.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following opening remarks at the Subcommittee's hearing with Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on April 11, 2018: Thank you Mr. Chairman. Secretary Zinke, thank you for being with us this morning. We’re here to discuss President Trump’s second budget but, sadly, it is just as out of touch as the first one. Just two months ago, Congress passed a bipartisan budget agreement to increase non-defense discretionary spending for two years. And, three weeks ago, in another admirable show of bipartisanship, the fiscal year 2018 omnibus was enacted into law. The omnibus sent a clear message that Congress rejects President Trump’s reckless proposals, which would exploit our natural resources, starve federal agencies of the funding needed to meet their critical missions, and jeopardize the legacy we leave future generations. To be fair, this budget was released before the omnibus was enacted. However, it does take into account the new budget caps that were agreed to by the Congress and the President. So the proposed reduction of $2.5 billion for Interior is staggering, and indicates a deliberate disregard for that agreement. It will be interesting to hear your justification for why President Trump is doubling down on cuts that Congress broadly rejected last year. It is disappointing, but not surprising that the worthwhile investments that we made across the bureaus, including the highest funding levels in years to address the maintenance backlogs in our National Parks and on other federal lands, are being undone. Unfortunately, the President’s disregard for the intent of Congress, or the well-being of the American people seems to extend far beyond just his budget proposal. President Trump’s first year in office has been remarkably damaging to our environment, public health, and natural resources. Today we will discuss many of those damaging policies. The dramatic shrinking of National Monuments through a biased review, the rush to open up drilling in the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge, and your proposal to advance oil and gas leasing on nearly the entire U.S. Outer Continental Shelf all leave no doubt that the Trump agenda puts the profits of oil and gas companies above the public good. The national monuments review has proven to be a sham with preconceptions that benefit the fossil fuels industry. Last year you said, “Bears Ears isn’t really about oil and gas.” However, that has turned out to be untrue – and investigative reporting by The New York Times found that gaining access to oil, natural gas, and uranium reserves played a central role in shrinking Bears Ears by nearly 85 percent. Your staff also developed projections on coal deposits to justify reducing the Grand Staircase monument by 47 percent. These priceless National Monuments are not the only casualty of this reckless Polluter’s First agenda that you and the President are pursuing. The pristine and diverse ecosystem protected in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is threatened by a relentless and hasty push for drilling. This irresponsible proposal was pushed through in the Republican tax scam as yet another one of the bill’s giveaways to big corporations and billionaires. And even as the tax scam explodes the federal debt by nearly $2 trillion, the revenue claimed from drilling ANWR is totally unsupported by the data. The reckless push to mine and drill our public lands is also hitting my home state, where sulfide-ore mining poses a critical risk to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and Voyageur’s National Park. This network of pristine lakes and streams is a national treasure, and the federal government is responsible for protecting it. But officials at the Interior Department recently abandoned that responsibility to grant a Chilean mining company a “non-discretionary right” to renew two mining leases on the doorstep of our country’s most visited national wilderness. And I am not even going to get into your flawed rollout of your five year offshore leasing plan and how you have promised to remove areas before the comment period is closed. Although the outcry over these policies has been great, the harm done by the Trump Administration extends beyond drilling and mining issues and has impacted the integrity of science, access to our parks, and now threatens to disrupt the entire Interior Department as you propose to create a new organizational model with no foundational analysis. The Department’s science programs provide data and tools to inform sound decision making to address complex challenges, such as drought, natural hazards, and climate change. Scientific integrity is essential to assure there is no bias or preconceived agenda in any information issued by the Department, and I am particularly concerned that senior leadership at the Department requested that the U.S. Geological Survey violate its policies regarding unpublished USGS data. Furthermore, The Center for Investigative Reporting found that the National Park Service deleted every mention of climate change from drafts of a long awaited report on sea level rise and storm surge. These findings contradict your March testimony before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in which you stated there was no incident when DOI changed even a comma in a report. You challenged any member to find an altered document, and now we have that proof. This clear, interference from political leadership is forcing employees to violate their scientific integrity policies– and it must stop. Additionally I am very disappointed in the way you rolled out your proposal to dramatically increase fees at 17 national parks with little analysis or consideration of public accessibility. Tens of thousands of Americans voiced their opposition through the public comment process and thankfully, so far, you have listened. The national parks are America’s crown jewels and access to them should not be exclusively for the wealthy. You have stated you want to reorganize the Department for the next 100 years and are proposing to establish 13 new regions. I have serious concerns that you: Are not able to share any analysis on the effects of this proposal; Have had no formal public input; Have not solicited comments from other agencies; and You have not conducted meaningful tribal consultation. On this last point, I am particularly concerned because I have been told that tribal leaders feel you presented this plan to them as a completed idea and only asked tribal nations to decide if they wanted to be a part of it or not. Mr. Secretary, that is not true consultation.You need to do better. A Department that serves the American public, that tells the story of America, should reflect its diversity and should never marginalize minorities. In June, when you reassigned 33 career senior executives, almost half of them were minorities. Specifically, over 40% were women and 30% were Native Americans. This apparent discrimination is just wrong, and I am disturbed by reports that you have said repeatedly that you believe diversity isn’t important in the Interior Department. Mr. Secretary, your task is to protect, preserve, and use resources wisely for the benefit of the American people today, and for future generations. Right now I don’t feel you are meeting your mission. For the record, I believe there is a place for responsible resource development on our public lands, but it must be balanced and sustainable. What I find alarming is that this Administration continues to prioritize “energy dominance” and profits for the fossil fuel industry over the protection of our national treasures, the conservation of our natural habitats, and our responsibilities to the American people. This budget is unacceptable. Mr. Chairman, I am pledging to work with you to ensure that the Department of the Interior has the necessary funding so that all Americans can continue to enjoy our Nation’s natural and cultural resources and that our actions today protect the planet we leave for future generations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
04.11.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wisc.) announced he will not run for re-election: “While I disagree with Speaker Ryan on many policy issues, I have personally found him to be a good man with a kind heart. Speaker Ryan has led the House of Representatives with dignity and honor. I wish Paul and his family all the best as he transitions to private life. “Today’s retirement announcement is yet another sign of the disarray that President Donald Trump’s corruption and incompetence is causing for Congressional Republicans. When the House elects its next Speaker in January, I fully expect it will be someone who will stand up to President Trump and fight for A Better Deal for working families.”
04.10.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump labeled the FBI raid on his personal attorney’s office an “attack on our country”: “After yesterday’s FBI raid targeting his personal attorney, President Donald Trump is clearly rattled. And he should be: the Special Counsel and the Department of Justice have uncovered illegal activity at the top of the Trump businesses, the Trump campaign, and the Trump-Pence White House. But the President’s fear of criminal exposure is no excuse for his comments labeling the criminal investigation of his attorney as an ‘attack on our country.’ That sort of rhetoric from the Commander-in-Chief in front of our military leadership is yet another abuse of power. “Instead of silence as President Trump works to obstruct justice, Congressional Republicans must pass legislation I have co-sponsored that protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller from being fired without cause. Doing anything less sends the unmistakable message that Congressional Republicans will willingly let President Trump plunge our country into a Constitutional crisis.”
04.03.2018	On Tuesday, April 17, 2018, Congresswoman Betty McCollum’s office will host an informational event to discuss the nomination process and application requirements for admission to a U.S. Service Academy. WHO: Guest speakers will include representatives from: U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland WHAT: Information session about U.S. Service Academy educational opportunities, application and nomination process. WHEN: Tuesday, April 17, 2018, 6:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. WHERE: Mounds View High School, The Forum, 1900 Lake Valentine Road, Arden Hills, MN 55112 Every year Members of Congress nominate qualified individuals as candidates from the districts they represent. Final appointment selections are made by each service academy. Congresswoman McCollum will begin accepting applications Monday, August 1, 2018 for nominations to the academies from interested students from the Fourth Congressional District. The application deadline is Monday, November 5, 2018. During Academy Information Night, students will have an opportunity to ask questions, discuss the application process, and learn more about the programs, opportunities, and life at the academies. Materials and nomination forms will be available to interested individuals at the information session. The information session is open to anyone interested in attending a U.S. Service Academy. However, Congresswoman McCollum can only nominate individuals from the Fourth Congressional District. Other Congressional offices have been invited to outline the nomination processes in their respective offices and information will be available to determine the congressional district where you reside, and how to contact other offices. In addition, the nomination requirements and application form are available here. Questions about this event may be directed to Connie Haddeland, Academy Coordinator, Office of Congresswoman McCollum, 651-224-9191.
04.02.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, wrote to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt on April 2 to demand answers after numerous media outlets reported that the EPA reimbursed a property owner to replace a door that was destroyed by his security detail after he failed to respond to them in a timely manner. A PDF copy of the letter is available here. The full text is below: Dear Administrator Pruitt, I write to seek answers about an apparent payment made by the Environmental Protection Agency to replace a door that was broken down by law enforcement and your EPA security detail when you did not respond to them during an incident at your residence on March 29, 2017. As I believe you know, I own the condo directly below the unit that you rented from Vicki Hart. I personally witnessed the March 29 incident where you did not respond to your security detail, necessitating the dispatch of both Capitol Police and District of Columbia law enforcement and ultimately requiring the breaking down of a wooden and glass door to access your unit. I have been shocked by recent press reports that the Environmental Protection Agency reimbursed the property owner for the cost of the broken door and would like to verify if the information contained in these reports is correct. As the Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Environmental Protection Agency, I know that Congress appropriates money for the EPA to protect human health and the environment — not for repairs to the Administrator’s residence. I respectfully request that you answer the following questions by April 16, 2018: Were appropriated funds used to reimburse Ms. Hart or the Court Condominium Association for the replacement of the door? If so, what program areas did the funds come from? If appropriated funds were used to reimburse Ms. Hart or the Court Condominium Association for the replacement of the door, what was the justification for the use of these appropriated funds? Have you personally reimbursed the Environmental Protection Agency for the cost of the door replacement? The American people deserve to know if and why their tax dollars have been spent repairing damage to your residence caused by your failure to respond to your security detail in a timely manner. Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. Sincerely, /s/ Betty McCollum Member of Congress
03.28.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on Vice President Mike Pence’s visit to Minnesota: “The sunny vision of the Trump administration that Vice President Mike Pence told Minnesotans today is completely at odds with the stormy reality. In its first year in office, the Trump-Pence administration has sabotaged Americans’ health care, raised taxes on middle class Minnesotans to pay for tax giveaways to billionaires, and presided over the most corrupt White House in history. And contrary to Vice President Pence’s rhetoric, eliminating environmental safeguards and implementing bigoted, discriminatory immigration policies makes America weaker, not greater. “Instead of the backwards Trump-Pence agenda and the Cover-Up Republican Congress, Minnesotans and Americans deserve a Congress that stands up to the President, holds this out-of-control White House accountable, and gives the American people A Better Deal than they’re getting now.”
03.27.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, is traveling to Puerto Rico this week to conduct oversight of recovery efforts in the wake of Hurricane Maria. More than six months after the storm, power has still not been restored to more than 100,000 Americans and dozens of schools and health centers. Permanent work projects to rebuild the U.S. territory’s infrastructure have yet to begin, and the significant damage to public lands is still being assessed and repaired. “As Ranking Member, I am working to ensure that federal agencies have the resources they need to help our fellow Americans in Puerto Rico. With significant disaster relief funding now appropriated, it’s important to ensure that our federal dollars are being used effectively and efficiently to help Puerto Rico recover,” Congresswoman McCollum said. The House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee is responsible for funding the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Forest Service, all of which are conducting major recovery efforts in Puerto Rico following the hurricane. Congresswoman McCollum is expected to visit El Yunque National Forest, San Juan National Historic Park, and Vieques National Wildlife Refuge, all sites where reconstruction is underway. She will also tour areas where the Environmental Protection Agency is working to prevent and remediate environmental concerns.
03.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today formally requested that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee open an investigation into hush money paid by an attorney for then-presidential candidate Donald Trump to adult film actress Stephanie Clifford, known professionally as Stormy Daniels, to influence the outcome of the 2016 presidential election. “I respectfully request that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee immediately open an investigation into the payment to Ms. Clifford, the source of the funds for the payment, and the Trump campaign’s failure to properly account for or disclose the payment,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote in a letter to House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Trey Gowdy. According to Ms. Clifford, Michael Cohen — who served as Executive Vice President of The Trump Organization — arranged for a payment of $130,000 from Essential Consultants LLC, a Delaware corporation Mr. Cohen formed on October 17, 2016, to Ms. Clifford in exchange for her silence about her relationship with Mr. Trump. The timing of the payment from Mr. Cohen and Ms. Clifford, coming just 12 days before the 2016 presidential election, and the nature of the agreement, limiting Ms. Clifford’s ability to share derogatory information about Mr. Trump, make it obvious that the purpose of the agreement was to influence the 2016 election for President of the United States. Under the Federal Election Campaign Act, campaigns must report in-kind contributions and coordinated expenditures. They are also prohibited from accepting contributions from individuals in excess of $2,700 per election and from accepting any corporate contributions. However, Mr. Trump’s campaign — Donald J. Trump for President — did not report the payment to Ms. Clifford to the Federal Election Commission. The Trump campaign also did not report the source of the money to make the payment to Ms. Clifford. Moreover, if the money paid to Ms. Clifford came from The Trump Organization or Mr. Cohen’s personal funds, either the prohibition on corporate contributions or the legal limit on individual contributions may have been violated. Taken together, there appears to be substantial reason to believe that the payment to Ms. Clifford violated the Federal Election Campaign Act and Federal Election Commission regulations. “There are few matters as consequential to the health of our democracy as upholding campaign finance laws that protect the integrity of our elections. The American people deserve to know if the President of the United States violated federal campaign finance law in order to silence an adult film actress with whom he had an extramarital affair,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. A PDF copy of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter to Chairman Gowdy is available here. The full text is below: Dear Chairman Gowdy: Last night, the American people heard directly from adult film actress Stephanie Clifford, known professionally as Stormy Daniels, about a payment she received in October 2016 from a representative of then-presidential candidate Donald Trump in exchange for her silence about a sexual encounter she had with Mr. Trump in 2006. According to Ms. Clifford, Michael Cohen — then Executive Vice President of The Trump Organization, Mr. Trump’s business — arranged for a payment of $130,000 from Essential Consultants LLC, a Delaware corporation Mr. Cohen formed in October 2016, to Ms. Clifford in exchange for a so-called “hush agreement” with Mr. Trump. Under the Federal Election Campaign Act, campaigns must report in-kind contributions and coordinated expenditures. They are also prohibited from accepting contributions from individuals in excess of $2,700 per election and from accepting any corporate contributions. Contributions are defined as “any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value made by any person for the purpose of influencing any election for federal office” (emphasis added). The timing of the payment from Mr. Cohen and Ms. Clifford, coming just 12 days before the 2016 presidential election, and the nature of the agreement, limiting Ms. Clifford’s ability to share derogatory information about Mr. Trump, make it obvious that the purpose of the agreement was to influence the 2016 election for President of the United States. However, Mr. Trump’s campaign — Donald J. Trump for President — did not report the payment to Ms. Clifford to the Federal Election Commission. The Trump campaign also did not report the source of the money to make the payment to Ms. Clifford. Moreover, if the money paid to Ms. Clifford came from The Trump Organization or Mr. Cohen’s personal funds, either the prohibition on corporate contributions or the legal limit on individual contributions may have been violated. Taken together, there appears to be substantial reason to believe that the payment to Ms. Clifford violated the Federal Election Campaign Act and Federal Election Commission regulations. As you know, the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform has authority to conduct oversight on behalf of the House of Representatives, including the power to conduct investigations of “any matter.” This broad jurisdiction includes oversight of a likely improper payoff of an adult film actress to prevent an explosive sex scandal from consuming the Trump campaign just days before being the 2016 presidential election. There are few matters as consequential to the health of our democracy as upholding campaign finance laws that protect the integrity of our elections. The American people deserve to know if the President of the United States violated federal campaign finance law in order to silence an adult film actress with whom he had an extramarital affair. I respectfully request that the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee immediately open an investigation into the payment to Ms. Clifford, the source of the funds for the payment, and the Trump campaign’s failure to properly account for or disclose the payment. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely, /s/
03.22.2018	The bipartisan fiscal year 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which the U.S. House passed today, includes a provision that for the first time provides direct access for tribal governments to the Crime Victims Fund (CVF). "As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to meet the safety and justice needs of Indian Country. I am proud that we are taking a big step forward today by allowing tribal nations, whose communities suffer from the highest rates of victimization in the country, to directly access the Crime Victims Fund and build a better network of support and services for survivors," Representative Betty McCollum, Democratic co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus said. “It’s unfortunate that Indian country has some of the highest crime rates in America‎. I am pleased that this provision was included in the Fiscal Year 2018 omnibus so that the federal government and the Justice Department can do more to fulfill their responsibility to combat crime and protect victims in Native communities. This provision allows for a three percent directive of the Crime Victims Fund to ensure tribal members receive quality support in crime recovery,” Representative Tom Cole, Republican co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, said. “I’m proud to work with my colleague Representative McCollum to safeguard our tribal communities and defend their right to have quality law enforcement and judicial protection.” Representatives McCollum and Cole offered a bipartisan amendment to establish a CVF set-aside for tribal nations during the House Appropriations Committee markup of the Commerce-Justice-Science Appropriations bill, which the Committee passed on a voice vote. The omnibus provision is modeled on that amendment, and allocates three percent of the CVF to ensure that tribal nations can provide their communities with the high-quality recovery service that the CVF supports across our nation. "Native families and communities will benefit tremendously from the supports that this funding will provide. I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, especially my Congressional Native American Caucus co-chair Representative Tom Cole, for working with me to include this vital provision in the final spending deal,” Representative McCollum said.
03.22.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after voting for the $1.3 trillion fiscal year 2018 omnibus appropriations bill which the U.S. House passed today: “The Omnibus Appropriations Act is a significant victory for Minnesotans and Americans. By investing in critical priorities like education, election integrity, housing, infrastructure, public safety, opioid abuse prevention and treatment, and veterans’ health care, this legislation keeps Minnesota and our entire country safe, strong, and moving forward. “As Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Subcommittee, my focus has been protecting our environment, upholding our commitments to Native Americans, and preserving our natural resources and cultural treasures. This omnibus meets that test. It rejects President Donald Trump's devastating cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. It improves education, health, and public safety in Indian Country. And it includes new resources to repair our National Parks and increases funding for the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities. Moreover, we removed many Republican riders that attacked endangered species, undermined environmental safeguards, and jeopardized public health. “While today’s omnibus is a positive step in the right direction, President Trump’s fiscal year 2019 budget would undo much of the progress we have made. In the months ahead, I will continue to work with my colleagues to once against reject the President’s backwards budget priorities and instead make smart investments in America’s future.”
03.22.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following remarks in support of the fiscal year 2018 omnibus appropriations bill that the U.S. House considered on March 22, 2018: I rise today in strong support of the Omnibus Appropriations Act. While this is not the bill that I would have written, it is nonetheless a significant victory for Minnesotans and Americans. By investing in critical priorities like education, election integrity, housing, infrastructure, public safety, opioid abuse prevention and treatment, and veterans’ health care, this legislation keeps Minnesota and our entire country safe, strong, and moving forward. As Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Subcommittee, my focus has been protecting our environment, upholding our commitments to Native Americans, and preserving our natural resources and cultural treasures. This omnibus rejects President Trump's devastating cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and in fact provides $700 million to improve water infrastructure to ensure that America's water is clean and safe. It improves education, health and public safety in Indian Country by providing a combined $700 million increase for the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service. And the omnibus includes new resources to address the maintenance backlog at our National Parks, it supports the Smithsonian Institution, and it increases funding for the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities. Moreover, we have removed many Republican riders that attacked endangered species, undermined environmental safeguards, and jeopardized public health. In addition, this bill ensures that the federal government will treat wildfires as the natural disasters they are and stop the ridiculous practice of forcing the Forest Service and Department of the Interior to borrow from other priorities to pay for wildfire suppression. I appreciate the hard work of all my colleagues, especially Mr. Simpson, in forging this bipartisan compromise. Mr. Speaker, the omnibus represents a major accomplishment on behalf of the American people. I thank Ranking Member Lowey, Chairman Frelinghuysen, Chairman Calvert and all of our staff for their hard work on this legislation. I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this bipartisan bill.
03.22.2018	A PDF version of this fact sheet is available here. Today, Congress passed a $1.3 trillion omnibus spending bill to fund the government through September 30, 2018. The bill provides $35.25 billion for functions under the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “As Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Subcommittee, my focus has been protecting our environment, upholding our commitments to Native Americans, and preserving our natural resources and cultural treasures. This omnibus meets that test. It rejects President Donald Trump's cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. It improves education, health, and safety in Indian Country. It includes resources to repair our National Parks and increases funding for the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities,” Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) said. “Because House and Senate Democrats stood strong, this bill is a significant victory for Minnesotans and Americans.” Protecting Our Environment The FY2018 omnibus bill provides $8.821 billion for the Environmental Protection Agency, an increase of $763 million over FY2017. The bill includes $2.856 billion for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, both of which promote public health in our communities through improved water infrastructure. The bill provides $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which funds vital investments to clean up and protect the largest surface freshwater system in the world. Dozens of harmful policy provisions pushed by House Republicans were removed, including those that would have delisted endangered species, rescinded environmental protections, and chipped away at our public lands. Keeping Our Commitments to Native Americans The FY2018 omnibus bill provides $3.064 billion for the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of Indian Education, an increase of $204 million over FY2017. This includes a $100 million increase to repair and replace dilapidated school buildings. The bill includes a $25 million increase for public safety in Indian Country. The bill includes $5.537 billion for the Indian Health Service, $498 million more than in FY2017, to help meet critical health care needs throughout Indian Country. This includes a $300 million increase for construction and maintenance of health facilities. Safeguarding Our Natural and Cultural Heritage The FY2018 omnibus bill funds the National Park Service at $3.202 billion, an increase of $270 million from FY2017. This includes a $132 million increase for construction to address the maintenance backlog. It provides $425 million for the Land and Water Conservation Fund, including $4 million to begin the purchase of Minnesota School Trust lands within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. The bill provides $153 million each for the National Endowments for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities, vital cultural organizations that President Trump has repeatedly proposed eliminating. The bill includes $13 million for Save America’s Treasures, a top priority for Congresswoman McCollum which preserves art, buildings, collections, and documents critical to the cultural identity and character of the American people.
03.13.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s nomination of CIA Director Mike Pompeo to be Secretary of State: “I served in the House with Mike Pompeo and I can think of few people more ill-suited to be Secretary of State. “Mr. Pompeo has opposed international engagement, undermined the Iran nuclear agreement, and advocated for torture. He was a ringleader wasting millions of dollars on the Benghazi witch hunt and he has shown his ultimate loyalty is to President Trump by downplaying his own Intelligence Community’s findings that Russia attacked our democracy to help then-candidate Trump. “After the debacle of Secretary Rex Tillerson’s tenure, we desperately need a fresh start with an experienced, respected leader to be our nation’s top diplomat. Mike Pompeo is not that person, and I urge the Senate to reject his nomination.”
03.09.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, delivered the following remarks at testimony she hosted on March 9 to hear from Minnesota community and nonprofit leaders about their fiscal year 2019 budget and appropriations priorities: Good morning. Thank you for joining me to discuss President Trump’s 2019 proposed federal budget and how it impacts the priorities of the Minnesotans we all work for and serve. As you may know, I serve on the House Appropriations Committee and as the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. The Appropriations Committee remains the rare House committee where Republicans and Democrats work together very closely. We certainly have our policy disagreements, but we work to resolve them with a spirit of compromise. For most of on the committee it is still about making our government work effectively for the good of our nation and the American people. Unfortunately, the White House and the Republican-controlled Congress have not prioritized the work of the Appropriations Committee. The federal government limps along, continuing resolution to continuing resolution, because a partisan agenda of repealing the Affordable Care Act and passing massive, unaffordable tax cuts took priority over responsibly funding the U.S. government. As you know, the President proposes the budget, but it is Congress that disposes. We appropriate the funds. But the actions of this President and Congress will have long term fiscal impacts on the federal government’s ability to address the priorities of the American people. The recent law passed to cut taxes for corporations and the wealthy has thrown a major wrench into future spending decisions, because it causes annual budget deficits to soon approach $2 trillion. Yes, $2 trillion in unsustainable annual deficits. House Speaker Paul Ryan is already using these higher deficits to demand Congress Medicare into a voucher program and sharply curtail nutrition assistance for low-income children, families, and seniors. I have no doubt that they will target Social Security offset their deficits. Congress is now operating under its fifth continuing resolution, depriving Minnesota families, businesses, and communities of the certainty you deserve. That is no way to govern responsibly. Fortunately, a bipartisan budget agreement was reached in late February. This agreement lifted budget caps that blocked investments in education, environmental protection, and public safety. The bipartisan agreement devoted new resources to the opioid epidemic and veterans’ health care and reauthorized the Children’s Health Insurance Program and our community health centers. I strongly believed that this budget agreement was the best deal we could reach to advance the priorities of Minnesota families. With the agreement in place, we have been able to get to work finalizing the fiscal year 2018 appropriations bills – nearly six months past the start of the fiscal year. Negotiations are proceeding – and I expect a final omnibus appropriations bill will provide substantial new resources to support our health care system, enhance public safety, and make some needed infrastructure investments. I very much hope that we will pass an omnibus bill by the March 23 deadline. Once we finish that, we will dive head first into the appropriations process for fiscal year 2019. Last month, President Trump presented his $4.4 trillion budget proposal for the upcoming fiscal year. I will not mince words: it is a disturbing vision that, if enacted, will hurt families, businesses, and communities in Minnesota and across the United States. The Trump budget whacks education, by eliminating grants for after-school learning programs, professional development for our teachers, and literacy initiatives. It attacks higher education by cutting $203 billion from student loan programs, eliminating the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program, slashing the work-study program, and freezing Pell Grants for low-income students. And the Trump budget weakens vital workforce development efforts by reducing grants for Job Corps programs, slashing the YouthBuild program, and cutting retraining programs for adults who have lost their jobs and need help gaining new skills. The Trump budget also makes our communities less safe by cutting funding for activities like the COPS program, meaning fewer police officers on our streets. Our local governments will also have less money to invest in community development because the Trump budget eliminates the Community Development Block Grant. As Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I know just how damaging the Trump budget’s cuts to environmental protection really are. Slashing help for states to enforce clean air and clean water laws will lead to sicker families and polluted communities. Cutting the funding for EPA’s Office of Science and Technology by 37 percent will devastate the research necessary to protect our nation from environmental threats. Eliminating grants to address climate change leaves our planet more vulnerable to the catastrophic impacts of global warming. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative – a $300 million annual program that has strong bipartisan support is cut by 90 percent to $30 million. The National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities also fall under my Subcommittee, and once again President Trump has proposed to eliminate both of these cultural organizations. You don’t need me to tell you that the effect of eliminating these organizations on our community’s vibrant arts scene would be severe. Last, but certainly not least, the Trump budget shreds our social safety net. It cuts Medicaid by hundreds of billions of dollars, ends the Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expansion, and cuts subsidies that help low-income people buy health coverage. The budget cuts SNAP, food stamps, by more than $200 billion, and means more people would go hungry. It exacerbates our affordable housing crisis by taking away funding for Housing Choice Vouchers, which help low-income families find a safe and decent place to live. Finally, of special concern in weeks like this one in Minnesota, the Trump budget eliminates the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program – LIHEAP. LIHEAP is a lifeline for Minnesota families and its elimination literally leaves children and seniors out in the cold. With all these cuts to our social safety net, Trump’s budget hits poor Americans the hardest. This year’s budget also included an infrastructure proposal that President Trump claimed would lead to trillions of dollars in investment in roads, bridges, and transit. But in reality, that’s another of the Trump administration’s alternative facts. The Trump budget proposes huge cuts to infrastructure investments like the TIGER and New Starts grant programs. And the infrastructure plan shifts costs from the federal government to cash-strapped state and local governments. When all is said and done, the Trump infrastructure plan puts no additional money into our country’s infrastructure. In addition to the many cuts in the Trump budget, I’m very concerned by the misguided decisions the Trump budget makes about where to spend money. It includes $18 billion to construct an unnecessary, divisive wall on the U.S.-Mexico border, a wall that President Trump promised during his campaign that Mexico would pay for. With his budget, he’s admitting that Mexicans won’t pay for his wall but Minnesotans will. And, even as the Trump budget targets critical domestic programs, it demonstrates complete fiscal irresponsibility with unwarranted growth in defense spending while doing nothing to curb inefficiencies in a bloated Pentagon budget. Now here’s the good news: my Republican colleagues have already declared the Trump budget dead on arrival. In the months ahead, we will have the opportunity to craft better appropriations bills. That’s where you come in. I want to hear from you today about your budget and appropriations priorities. As Minnesota’s only Appropriator, I look forward to working with you to meet the needs of the people you represent and fight for the priorities of Minnesotans in Washington. Making smart investments in our families, communities, and security will pay far bigger returns than making dumb cuts that result in pain, divestment, and lost opportunities. Together we can make critical investments that help every Minnesotan and American contribute and succeed. Thank you again for joining us. I look forward to your testimony.
03.06.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum today invited high school students in Minnesota’s Fourth Congressional District to participate in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, “An Artistic Discovery.” Submissions are due Friday, April 13, 2018 by 5:00 p.m. “Minnesota is a national arts leader, and I am thrilled to recognize the creativity and talent of our young artists through the Congressional Arts Competition,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I hope that many students will participate in this year’s competition and I look forward to seeing the winner’s work displayed in the U.S. Capitol.” The contest is open to all high school students either attending school or residing in the Fourth Congressional District. In addition to the display of their artwork in the U.S. Capitol, the winner will also receive two free airline tickets to Washington, D. C. to attend the exhibit opening in June. Runners-up will be displayed in Congresswoman McCollum’s offices in Saint Paul and in Washington, D. C. Entries may be mailed to or dropped off at Congresswoman McCollum’s Saint Paul office, located at 661 LaSalle Street, Suite 110, Saint Paul, MN 55114. Entries must be received by Friday, April 13, 2018 by 5:00 p.m. Only one submission per student is allowed. As part of this year’s competition, the artwork of all students participating in the Congressional Art Competition will be displayed as part of the 2018 Spring Saint Paul Art Crawl presented by the Saint Paul Art Collective! The Congressional Art Competition show will run April 27-29 in the Pig’s Eye Gallery of the Schmidt Artist Lofts, 900 7th Street West, Saint Paul, MN 55102. To learn more, view the complete rules, and download entry forms, please visit https://mccollum.house.gov/services/art-competition. Teachers and students are encouraged to contact Congresswoman McCollum’s office at 651-224-9191 with any questions.
03.06.2018	Representatives Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and Chris Smith (R-N.J.) introduced a three-year reauthorization of their Global Food Security Act, reaffirming the United States’ commitment to fighting hunger and poverty worldwide. The bipartisan Global Food Security Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 5129) ensures that the vital Feed the Future Initiative continues through 2021. This new bipartisan legislation builds upon Representatives Smith and McCollum’s Global Food Security Act of 2016, which formally codified the Feed the Future Initiative and was signed into law in July 2016. Feed the Future combats global food insecurity by investing in agriculture development and building resiliency in developing countries. By equipping communities with the tools they need to help feed themselves, Feed the Future has increased food and nutrition security for millions of people through improved agriculture production, market access, business development, private sector competitiveness, and nutrition interventions. “The life-saving programs carried out through Feed the Future have helped millions of people lift themselves out of poverty, reduced the number of children suffering from stunting by nearly two million, and strengthened local and regional economies in some of the world’s poorest countries,” said Representative McCollum. “I look forward to working with Representative Smith to get this good bipartisan legislation passed and signed into law.” “The Global Food Security Act has saved the lives of millions, fighting starvation and malnutrition on a massive scale and it has helped lift families out of poverty through promoting the right agricultural practices,” said Rep. Smith. “Congress should pass this reauthorization to solidify the great progress made to date and ensure it continues into the future.” Original co-sponsors of the Global Food Security Reauthorization Act of 2018 include Representatives Ed Royce (R-Calif.), Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.), Austin Scott (R-Ga.), Karen Bass (D-Calif.), Jeff Fortenberry (R-Neb.), Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), Erik Paulsen (R-Minn.), Rosa DeLauro (D-Conn.), Dave Reichert (R-Wash.), Adam Smith (D-Wash.), and David Cicilline (D-R.I.). “We’re encouraged by the bipartisan support for reauthorization of the Global Food Security Act,” said Sam Worthington, CEO of InterAction, an alliance of nearly 200 U.S.-based international nonprofit organizations. “Reauthorization will allow us to continue the great work being done to help fight hunger and support self-reliant and sustainable communities around the world.” The Global Food Security Act requires the federal government to: Develop a whole-of-government strategy to promote global food security that puts food-insecure countries on a path to self-sustainability Support agriculture-led economic growth, bolster smallholder and women farmers, build resilience to food shocks, and improve maternal and child nutrition Effectively use taxpayer dollars, establish measurable goals, rigorously monitor and evaluate results, and align the food security strategy with broader national goals
02.28.2018	Representatives Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and Lloyd Smucker (R-Pa.) today introduced bipartisan legislation to authorize $250 million in federal funding over five years to help communities respond to the needs of low-income people and families in crisis because of the opioid epidemic. The Community Action Opioid Response Act, H.R. 5124, establishes a competitive grant program to expand and support effective community efforts to identify and respond to the causes and consequences of opioid misuse and addiction experienced by low-income individuals, families, and communities. Uniquely positioned to address these needs, Community Action Agencies would compete for three-year grants ranging from $50,000 to $1 million per year. “The opioid epidemic has devastated communities and torn apart families across our country. Working on the ground, our Community Action Agencies are ready to respond and this bipartisan bill provides them with the resources they need to do so,” Representative McCollum said. “I appreciate working across the aisle with Rep. Smucker on this important legislation to address the opioid epidemic.” “Now more than ever we must prioritize federal funding to combat the opioid epidemic that has swept across Pennsylvania and the nation,” Representative Smucker said. “Everyone in the community has a role to play in this fight, ranging from law enforcement, pharmacies, physicians, insurers, and community groups. Community action agencies have an existing infrastructure we can harness to reach families and individuals at risk or struggling with opioid addiction. These funds are critical to saving lives, and I am glad to work with Rep. McCollum to increase the federal government’s response in the wake of this public health crisis.” Grants under the Community Action Opioid Response Act could support a wide range of activities designed to prevent and treat addiction, stabilize the lives of addicted individuals and their families, and support the children of addicted individuals. Grant applicants would undergo rigorous screening by a 15-member review panel under the Department of Health and Human Services. There are more than 1,000 Community Action Agencies across the country, each governed by a board that represents all sectors of the local community, including its low-income residents. Funded through the Community Services Block Grant, they have well-established and wide-ranging networks of private and public partners, including health care providers, social service organizations, the judicial system, local governments, and thousands of local volunteers.
02.28.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement commemorating Black History Month: “Each February, our country recognizes the contributions and the accomplishments of African Americans. We remember dedicated activists who marched for justice, including Minnesota civil rights leaders Roy Wilkins, Matthew Little, and Nellie Stone Johnson. We celebrate cultural icons, like Minnesota’s own August Wilson and Prince. And we honor current leaders like Saint Paul Mayor Melvin Carter III who made history this year as the first African American to be elected leader of Minnesota’s capital city, and the youngest mayor in decades. “We mark Black History Month not just to remember the past, but to recommit ourselves to a better future. The African American experience in the United States has often been marked by a harsh legacy of injustice and a continued struggle for equality. This past year, we have seen President Donald Trump and his administration turn back the clock on so many national priorities — with disproportionate impacts on communities of color. “All Americans must reject these attacks. We must defend civil and voting rights. We must work together for a more inclusive economy and expanded educational opportunities. And we must continue to heal our country’s divides. As Black History Month draws to a close, we honor the immense contributions of African Americans and we rededicate ourselves to fighting for equality and justice.”
02.27.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today joined 150 House Democrats introducing legislation under the Congressional Review Act to overturn the Federal Communications Commission’s repeal of net neutrality rules. “Net neutrality is essential to a free and open internet. Repealing net neutrality pads the pockets of big corporations at the expense of consumers and small businesses,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Congress has the power to overturn the FCC’s disastrous decision and we should do so now.” In December, the Republican majority on the FCC repealed net neutrality rules on a partisan vote. Without these rules, Internet Service Providers will have the ability to slow down, block, or charge consumers more money to access websites they visit on a daily basis. This could create a tiered internet system, with “fast lanes,” for companies willing to pay ISPs more money, and “slow lanes” for small businesses or start-ups who do not have the resources to pay for faster access. “I urge my Republican colleagues to join me in blocking the FCC’s decision, preserve net neutrality and save the Internet as we know it,” Congresswoman McCollum said.
02.27.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined Reps. David Cicilline (D-R.I.), Ted Deutch (D-Fla.), and more than 150 House Democrats to introduce legislation to ban assault weapons and take dangerous weapons of war off Americans streets. McCollum is an original co-sponsor of the bill. “Semi-automatic weapons and high-capacity magazines were designed to inflict maximum carnage on the battlefield. They do not belong in our communities,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “It is time for Congress to say enough is enough and act to keep our children and families safe by banning assault weapons.” The Assault Weapons Ban of 2018 prohibits the sale, transfer, production, and importation of: Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a military-style feature that can accept a detachable magazine; Semi-automatic rifles and handguns with a fixed magazine that can hold more than 10 rounds; Semi-automatic shotguns with a military-style feature; Any ammunition feeding device that can hold more than 10 rounds; and 205 specifically-named and listed firearms. Assault weapons have become the weapon of choice for mass shooters. They were used in the recent attacks on the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Florida and the Route 91 Harvest music festival in Las Vegas, as well as the mass murders at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn. and a movie theatre in Aurora, Colorado. “The survivors of the Parkland school shooting have courageously come forward and demanded that Congress act to ensure a tragedy like that never happens again. It is time for Congressional Republicans to show some courage of their own, stand up to the gun lobby, and save lives by banning assault weapons,” Congresswoman McCollum said.
02.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on the House Floor on Feb. 26 urging the immediate release of two Reuters journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo, who have been imprisoned in Burma. Video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is available here. Congresswoman McCollum's extended remarks are below: Mr. Speaker, I rise to urge the immediate release of two Reuters journalists — Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo — who have been imprisoned Burma for their fearless reporting on the atrocities being perpetrated against the Rohingya. The ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya has shocked the conscience of the world, in part because of the important public testimony gathered by these two journalists. In December, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo were invited to meet with police officers in Yangon, were handed documents by two police officers they had never met before, and then were immediately arrested for allegedly breaching Burma's Official Secrets Act, a little-used colonial era law on government secrecy. The arrest of these journalists and the Burmese government's refusal to grant them bail is highly irregular. It seems obvious that the only purpose of their continued detention is to chill the independent media in Burma. I visited Burma and Bangladesh as part of a Congressional delegation in November, and it was clear to me that the urgent humanitarian crisis in the region needs more attention from the media and the public — not less. Despite their ongoing detention, the two detained journalists agreed to Reuters publication this month of their special report detailing the role of the military and Rakhine Buddhists in these atrocities. I salute these journalists for their willingness to bravely support the truth despite the personal risks to them. Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo are both ethnic Buddhists who grew up in Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine state. Their work on the ethnic cleansing and humanitarian crisis has won a joint honorable mention from the Society of Publishers in Asia. Additionally, Wa Lone has written an acclaimed children’s book and co-founded a charity that promotes tolerance between different ethnic groups. Government officials, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley have called for the journalists’ release. Top United Nations officials, as well as the leaders of many nations — including Canada and the United Kingdom — have also called for the release of these two journalists. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Speaker, I rise to urge the immediate release of two Reuters journalists — Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo — who have been imprisoned Burma for their fearless reporting on the atrocities being perpetrated against the Rohingya. The ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya has shocked the conscience of the world, in part because of the important public testimony gathered by these two journalists. In December, Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo were invited to meet with police officers in Yangon, were handed documents by two police officers they had never met before, and then were immediately arrested for allegedly breaching Burma's Official Secrets Act, a little-used colonial era law on government secrecy. The arrest of these journalists and the Burmese government's refusal to grant them bail is highly irregular. It seems obvious that the only purpose of their continued detention is to chill the independent media in Burma. I visited Burma and Bangladesh as part of a Congressional delegation in November, and it was clear to me that the urgent humanitarian crisis in the region needs more attention from the media and the public — not less. Despite their ongoing detention, the two detained journalists agreed to Reuters publication this month of their special report detailing the role of the military and Rakhine Buddhists in these atrocities. I salute these journalists for their willingness to bravely support the truth despite the personal risks to them. Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo are both ethnic Buddhists who grew up in Sittwe, the capital of Rakhine state. Their work on the ethnic cleansing and humanitarian crisis has won a joint honorable mention from the Society of Publishers in Asia. Additionally, Wa Lone has written an acclaimed children’s book and co-founded a charity that promotes tolerance between different ethnic groups. Government officials, including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson and United Nations Ambassador Nikki Haley have called for the journalists’ release. Top United Nations officials, as well as the leaders of many nations — including Canada and the United Kingdom — have also called for the release of these two journalists. Mr. Speaker, a free press is essential to a democratic society. I join the State Department and governments around the world urging Burma to release Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo immediately and allow them to reunite with their families and resume their vital work.
02.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks at Amnesty International's Lobby Day in Washington on Feb. 26, 2018: Thank you for welcoming me this morning and thank you for being here in our nation’s capital today to speak up and speak out for human rights! I am proud to be with a room of human rights activists. And, I am honored to stand with Amnesty International in support of prisoners of conscience, human rights, and the right of all people to live lives of dignity and hope. I’m especially proud to see so many people from Minnesota in this room, including Paul Bloom – whose tireless advocacy for human rights in the Philippines deserves our appreciation. In Minnesota, we take our responsibility to advance human rights seriously. We embrace refugees and we work around the world through Minnesota based organizations like the Center for Victims of Torture, Minnesota Advocates for Human Rights, and the American Refugee Committee. Throughout my career in Congress I have felt an obligation to speak out and advance policies that reflect the best of American leadership in the world. From fighting HIV/AIDS, to improving food security for the world’s poorest, to efforts to prevent teenage girls into forced marriages, I have worked to improve lives around the world. That is why I traveled last November to Burma and Bangladesh with several of my House and Senate colleagues to see the crisis for ourselves and to send a message. We saw firsthand the trauma and the tragedy from the ongoing ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya in Rakhine State. We spoke with parents who had lost children, with victims of horrific violence, and with people who are struggling to rebuild their lives in refugee camps in Bangladesh. We saw international aid groups like the United Nations Population Fund working tirelessly to help these survivors. This visit was an important reminder of the vital role of the United States must play in defending human rights and aiding the vulnerable around the world. But tragically, America’s role in the world has entered a new and disturbing era. President Donald Trump has abandoned traditional, bipartisan American leadership. He glorifies torture. He celebrates dictators and human rights abusers. And, he is proud of Guantanamo Bay – which in my opinion is an American disgrace that should be closed immediately. The Trump administration is intent on taking American leadership backwards. Under President Trump, America has given up the high ground, turning his back on refugees, abandoning Dreamers, and ignoring the victims of war, violence, and persecution. That is why Congress – Democrats and Republicans – must temper the worst excesses of the Trump administration’s agenda. But we need your help and your voice, and that’s why I’m so glad you’re here today. I want to spotlight a few issues where your voices can help shape what’s being debated in the Capitol right now. Let’s start with robust funding for foreign affairs and assistance. I serve on the House Appropriations Committee. Right now, we are in the midst of making very important budget decisions for fiscal year 2018, as well as starting our consideration of the fiscal year 2019 appropriations bills. As you know, President Trump has proposed deep cuts the State Department and U.S. foreign assistance around the world. These cuts are short-sighted and deeply harmful. If enacted, they will cause deep suffering for millions of people, while leaving our country even more isolated on the global stage. Today, you can make clear to your Representatives and Senators that you strongly support funding for American diplomacy and humanitarian assistance, and you understand the value of these investments in building a more peaceful, just, and prosperous world. You can also make a difference today on the situation in Burma. The House has already passed a non-binding resolution, H. Con. Res. 90, which condemns the ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya. But we need to do more. The BURMA Act, H.R. 4223, imposes new sanctions on the Burmese military in response to the ongoing ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya. This bill gives the federal government the tools it needs to help end the ethnic cleansing, support investigations that lead to prosecution of war criminals, and forge a better path forward for Burma. During our travels to Bangladesh and Burma, we also met with human rights defenders on the ground working to document and end the ethnic cleansing. That includes the journalists who are covering the atrocities against the Rohingya, it includes the teachers and doctors who are working in refugee camps, and it includes the civil society leaders who are speaking up throughout the region. Symbolism is critical in defending human rights and I strongly support the bipartisan resolution that support human rights defenders, as well as the forthcoming resolution that will defend prisoners of conscience. I’d also like to discuss another issue that is very close to my heart. Late last year, I introduced H.R. 4391, the Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of Palestinian Children Act. Hundreds of Palestinian children have been detained by Israeli security forces and prosecuted in the Israeli military court system each year. Right now 300 to 500 Palestinian children are in Israeli military detention, including a Ahed Tamimi, a girl who just celebrated her 17th birthday in an Israeli military prison. Ahed, like all of these children, are victims and political prisioners of a 50 year military occupation. Independent monitors have documented that these children are subject to abuse and, in some cases, torture — specifically citing the use of chokeholds, beatings, and coercive interrogation on children between the ages of 11 and 15. Given that the Israeli government receives billions of dollars in security assistance from the United States, Congress must work to ensure that American taxpayer dollars never support the Israeli military’s detention or abuse of Palestinian children. My bill requires that the Secretary of State certify that American funds do not support Israel’s military detention, interrogation, abuse, or ill-treatment of Palestinian children. Amnesty International has been a critical partner in this legislative effort and I am proud to have Amnesty’s endorsement on this bill! Now we need more co-sponsors! I urge you to ask your Representatives to co-sponsor H.R. 4391 and promote human rights for Palestinian children. Of course, I’m realistic that this bill will not pass this Congress. Working on human rights issues in Washington is daunting. It often feels like for every step we take forward, we take two steps back. And when it comes to dealing with an administration that seems willing to trash democratic norms and cozy up to despots at every turn, you can almost feel like giving up. But because of groups like Amnesty International we are making progress! And now is not the time to give up the fight. People around the world, from imprisoned journalists in Burma to children in the Palestinian territories, are counting on us to stand up and speak out for their rights — and ours. We need your voices now more than ever. As Amnesty’s motto says, it is better to light a candle than curse the darkness. Thank you for being here today, thank you for the work you’re doing every day, and best of luck with today!
02.23.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today asked the Department of the Interior’s Inspector General to investigate the Trump administration’s actions that apparently undermined U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) policy to gain advanced access to research data about oil and gas deposits in Alaska. On Wednesday, Mother Jones reported that Deputy Interior Secretary David Bernhardt requested USGS provide the sensitive Alaskan energy data to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke several days prior to its public release in December and the USGS granted the request in contradiction to its Fundamental Science Practices. In protest, USGS Associate Director for Energy and Minerals Murray Hitzman tendered his resignation on December 17. “Congress and the American people deserve a full explanation of how, why, and at whose direction the Trump administration disregarded the fundamental science practices that prior administrations have adhered to and that citizens count on,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. The Fundamental Science Practices exist to ensure the integrity of the USGS’ scientific research and protect scientists from any pressure to release data in advance of its release to the public. The Trump administration’s decision to upend this process threatens unbiased, reliable USGS data and creates the possibility of a real or perceived unfair advantage to individuals or groups who have access to the material in advance. “I request that you review this action and determine whether there were any violations of policy by Department of Interior leadership in requesting and obtaining this information in advance of its public release. This includes a determination of any ethical violations, as well as a review of how this action may jeopardize the scientific integrity and objectivity of USGS,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. A PDF copy of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter is available here. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter is below: Dear Deputy Inspector General Kendall: The Fundamental Science Practices of the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) are in place to safeguard unpublished USGS data, information and associated scientific materials. These guidelines are designed to ensure the integrity of the agency’s scientific research and protect scientists from any pressure to release data in advance of its release to the public. This process ensures that unbiased, reliable USGS data and information are released to the whole public and avoids any unfair advantage, or perceived advantage, to the benefit of any interest or particular group, corporation, individual, or other entity. On December 15, 2017, a request was made by Deputy Secretary David Bernhardt to the USGS to disclose information from the first National Petroleum Reserve report, an energy assessment of the National Petroleum Reserve Alaska, containing sensitive information on oil deposits, to Secretary Ryan Zinke prior to its publication on December 22, 2017. In contradiction of the USGS fundamental science policy, USGS granted Deputy Secretary Bernhardt’s request, and proffered the information to the Secretary of Interior several days in advance of the information’s public release. As a result, Associate Director for Energy and Minerals Murray Hitzman tendered his resignation on December 17, 2017. I request that you review this action and determine whether there were any violations of policy by Department of Interior leadership in requesting and obtaining this information in advance of its public release. This includes a determination of any ethical violations, as well as a review of how this action may jeopardize the scientific integrity and objectivity of USGS. Congress and the American people deserve a full explanation of how, why, and at whose direction the Trump administration disregarded the fundamental science practices that have been adhered to in prior administrations and that citizens count on. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Sincerely,
02.15.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 620, a Republican bill that weakens the Americans with Disabilities Act: “Weakening the Americans with Disabilities Act is yet another Republican attack on our family, friends, neighbors, and co-workers with disabilities. Just as they did with cuts to Medicaid for people with disabilities, Republicans are once again demonstrating the cruelty of their backwards agenda. “The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) is a vital piece of civil rights legislation, passed nearly three decades ago to fully include people with disabilities in American society. It has been a monumental success story. But instead of building on that success, this Republican bill makes it harder for people with disabilities to protect their right to access public accommodations. “I have heard from countless people with disabilities in Minnesota who are unified in their opposition to this Republican bill. I stand with them, and numerous groups representing people with disabilities, seniors, and veterans, opposing this harmful legislation that rolls back the ADA and Americans’ civil rights.”
02.15.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on the House Floor in opposition to President Donald Trump's budget and infrastructure proposal, both of which undermine bedrock environmental protections. Video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is available here. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is below: "As Americans, we have a responsibility to protect our environment and our public lands for today and for tomorrow. That’s why we passed clean air and clean water laws and why we protected our public lands and treasured spaces. But President Trump has a different set of priorities. "With his Dirty Budget and his infrastructure scam, President Trump is attacking basic environmental safeguards. The Trump budget cuts vital environmental protections and makes it impossible for the EPA to keep American families safe and healthy. The Trump budget stops essential research on climate change, slashes clean energy development, and threatens endangered species. And the Trump infrastructure scam repeals basic environmental rules and sells off our public lands to Big Oil. "Once again, President Trump is putting polluters and their profits first and putting the health of American families last. Our air, our water, and our lands should never be a partisan issue. Congress must reject this Dirty Budget and infrastructure scam and work to protect our environment not destroy it."
02.12.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s infrastructure proposal: “The Trump administration’s infrastructure proposal is wholly inadequate to the task of rebuilding and modernizing our crumbling roads, bridges, waterways, and energy systems. This proposal provides only modest increases in infrastructure spending, offsets those new resources with deep cuts to national priorities, and pushes most of the cost of new infrastructure onto states and local governments. “Taken as a whole, the Trump proposal is full of giveaways to corporate special interests. It weakens essential safeguards that allow for public input and protect our air, water, land, and history. And it falls far short when it comes to Buy America rules and labor protections. “If Congressional Republicans are serious about fixing our infrastructure, they will reject President Trump’s partisan proposal and instead work with Democrats on a meaningful, responsible infrastructure plan that will invest federal funds to boost local economies and create good-paying jobs.”
02.12.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s fiscal year 2019 budget: “President Trump’s budget is emblematic of his Polluters First agenda, with a devastating 24 percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency that will make it impossible for the Agency to fulfill its mission to protect human health and our environment. Slashing help for states to enforce clean air and clean water laws will lead to sicker families and polluted communities. Cutting the funding for EPA’s Office of Science and Technology by 37 percent will devastate the research necessary to protect our nation from environmental threats. Eliminating grants to address climate change leaves our planet more vulnerable to the catastrophic impacts of global warming. “Beyond environmental devastation, the Trump budget slashes protection of our natural resources and public lands by cutting the Department of the Interior by 13 percent and eliminating new acquisitions under the Land and Water Conservation Fund. President Trump is also turning his back on federal support for our cultural heritage by terminating both the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities. These are short-sighted decisions that harm local economies and weaken our communities. “Congress rejected similar cuts in President Trump’s budget last year — and I expect the same result this year. As Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I look forward to working across the aisle to provide robust funding to protect our environment and preserve our natural resources and cultural heritage.”
02.12.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s fiscal year 2019 budget: “President Donald Trump’s budget reflects his warped values by offsetting Republicans’ deficit-busting tax cuts for the rich with attacks on many of the critical investments that keep Minnesota and our entire nation safe, strong, and moving forward. “Eliminating heating assistance for low-income seniors and families, cutting support for public schools and college students, slashing funds to hire police officers, and zeroing out the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities hurts our families and weakens our communities. Even as the Trump budget targets critical domestic programs for cuts, it demonstrates complete fiscal irresponsibility with unwarranted growth in defense spending while doing nothing to curb inefficiencies in a bloated Pentagon budget. “The good news is that much of the Trump budget is dead on arrival in Congress. As we move forward with the appropriations process, I will use my role as Minnesota’s only member of the Appropriations Committee to fight for a better deal that gives middle class Americans and people struggling to join the middle class the opportunity to contribute and succeed.”
02.09.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement rejecting President Donald Trump’s comments about White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter and calling on President Trump to immediately fire White House Chief of Staff John Kelly for his domestic abuse cover-up: “President Donald Trump’s comments today defending White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter demonstrate that the Trump-Pence White House is an environment that lacks any shred of decency and is completely at odds with the values of the American people, especially the women of this country. With his outspoken endorsement and support of accused child molester Roy Moore and now his sympathetic defense of a violent domestic abuser, it is clear that President Trump is willing to excuse the vilest forms of abuse. “The severity of the Porter scandal demands President Trump immediately fire White House Chief of Staff John Kelly. Mr. Kelly has jeopardized national security by allowing his subordinate, White House Staff Secretary Rob Porter — who was never granted a permanent security clearance — to control the President of the United States’ most highly classified documents. To be clear, Mr. Kelly empowered and defended a domestic abuser in a highly sensitive role despite evidence from the FBI that he could not receive a security clearance. “Mr. Kelly must go, but that is not enough. The reckless conduct of the inner circle in the White House with classified national security documents demands a thorough Congressional investigation. The House Oversight and Government Reform Committee should immediately hold hearings on Mr. Porter’s role at the White House, which White House staff were aware of his repeated domestic violence, and why Mr. Kelly allowed him to handle classified information. Instead of a Cover-Up Congress, we need full accountability.”
02.09.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on Representative Rick Nolan’s retirement announcement: “Representative Rick Nolan has been a tireless champion for Minnesota and I have been proud to work with him on many issues. Rick is a dear friend and I will miss serving with him in the House.” “Representative Nolan will spend the rest of the year continuing to fight for Minnesota and our nation. Rick and his family have my very best wishes.”
02.09.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the Bipartisan Budget Act passed by Congress overnight: “My job in Congress is to responsibly fund the federal government, not shut it down. The Bipartisan Budget Act ends four months of Republican negligence and stalling that has hurt our military and prevented federal agencies from meeting the needs of the American people. My vote last night supports education, environmental protection, and public safety, prevents layoffs at our Community Health Centers, extends the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and devotes new resources to the opioid epidemic and veterans’ health care. As a Member of the House Appropriations Committee, I strongly believe that this is the best budget agreement Democrats could have reached to advance the priorities of the Minnesota families I represent. “President Donald Trump’s decision to put Dreamers at risk of deportation has been linked to the federal budget process, largely by Democrats. I disagree with this approach, a lose-lose strategy that only hurts Dreamers and millions of Americans who count on a fully functioning federal government. President Trump is responsible for taking Dreamers hostage and House Speaker Paul Ryan has an obligation to allow Congress a vote to protect them. I am committed to protecting all immigrants – Dreamers, Temporary Protected Status recipients, and refugees – from the Trump administration’s cruel and bigoted actions. “My vote for the Bipartisan Budget Act reflects my commitment to critical investments in the priorities of the Minnesota families that I represent and, at the same time, to fight President Trump’s destructive immigration policies.”
02.06.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on the House Floor on Feb. 6, 2018 in opposition to H.R. 1892, House Republicans' latest short-term, stopgap spending bill. Video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is available here. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is below: Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this legislation, a misguided bill that ignores the urgent needs of the American people. The federal government’s fiscal year started October 1, 2017 — 128 days ago. Instead of using that time to get their work done, Republicans have focused solely on partisan politics. But when it comes to the essential responsibility of funding the federal government, Republicans can’t be bothered. Now, we are asked to vote for a bill that funds the Pentagon for the rest of the year, while funding our schools and our hospitals for just 43 days. Mr. Speaker, our national security begins at home — with investments in the future that keep our families and communities safe, strong, and moving forward. This bill ignores those needs. It provides no certainty for our law enforcement professionals, no long-term funding for urgent repairs to our crumbling infrastructure, and no confidence for investments in lifesaving medical research. It doesn’t even provide a full year of funding for veterans’ health care. While it is encouraging that Republicans are finally reauthorizing vital health care programs like our Community Health Centers, paying for these programs with cuts to the CDC’s Prevention and Public Health Fund - which is providing lifesaving vaccines in this severe flu season - is the height of irresponsibility. Discord and delay is no way to run a government. But under total Republican control, that’s exactly what we are getting. Unlike the President, I don’t want a government shutdown. We need a budget agreement that keeps our government open, protects our national security, and meets our commitments to hardworking families. Let’s stop the games and get to work now.
01.30.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “President Trump’s speech was long on campaign rhetoric and filled with empty promises of a Republican agenda that continues to divide America. Instead of solutions that unite our nation, the first year of the Trump presidency has been defined by chaos, dysfunction, and scandal. “With House Republicans’ enthusiastic support, President Trump has sabotaged health care for millions of Americans, rolled back essential environmental safeguards, and pursued a reckless and cruel immigration policy. President Trump’s signature law, the Republican tax scam, will raise taxes on many middle class Minnesotans while slashing tax rates for billionaires and big corporations. “The unspoken reality tonight is that President Trump is mired in a criminal investigation and appears to have obstructed justice. His backwards agenda, his administration’s incompetence, and the dark cloud over his White House demands a Congress that pursues accountability — not one that conspires with and covers up for this failing President.” Minnesota Senator Richard Cohen (DFL-SD64), Congresswoman McCollum’s guest to the State of the Union, released the following statement on President Trump’s State of the Union Address: “For the past eight years, Minnesota has succeeded in building a more equitable tax structure that supports the middle class and responsibly taxes Minnesotans with the most resources. I have been proud to work with Governor Dayton on this effort. “Unfortunately, the Republican tax legislation that President Trump spent so much time touting tonight upends this careful work and takes Minnesota backwards. While 83 percent of the benefits from the tax bill go to the top 1 percent, Republican Congressional leaders already appear to be using the deficits the bill created to justify cuts to Social Security, Medicare, and other safety net programs. All Minnesotans should be concerned about the squeeze this legislation will put on our state and our citizens.”
01.30.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered remarks on the House Floor on Jan. 30, 2018 in opposition to H.R. 695, a Republican show vote that wastes valuable time needed to negotiate a long-term budget deal. Video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is here. The full text is below: Mr. Speaker, here we are again. For four months the federal government has been operating under a series of short-term continuing resolutions. And as we approach yet another deadline to fund the government next week, the Republican majority is spending time on the floor today voting a third time on a defense appropriations bill that they know will not pass the Senate. The most basic fundamental responsibility of Congress is to provide adequate and timely funding for the entire federal government – both our national defense and our domestic priorities – for a full fiscal year. The fact that this bill is on the floor for a third time highlights the absolute failure of the Republican majority to advance a responsible budget process. Mr. Speaker, voting on the same bill three times is the very definition of playing political games. The American people deserve better than this continuing Republican chaos. Democrats and Republicans agree that defense spending is vitally important. But so is funding education, transportation, healthcare, and all the other federal programs that all Americans – our military and their families included – depend on. And if anyone doubts the harmful impacts of endless stopgap spending bills, perhaps they should listen to our Secretary of Defense. I quote: “For too long we have asked our military to stoically carry out a success at any cost attitude, as they work tirelessly to accomplish the mission with now inadequate and misaligned resources, simply because the Congress could not maintain regular order.” If Republicans are serious about supporting our military, they should heed the Secretary’s warning and work with Democrats on a bipartisan budget agreement to fund the entire government for the rest of this fiscal year. I have been ready, Democrats have been ready for months to work across the aisle to advance this process – it is long past time that Republicans join us. I yield back.
01.29.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) sent the following letter to constituents on Jan. 30, 2018 after she co-sponsored articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump: Dear Neighbor: For my constituents and for history, I want to be on the record supporting an open, transparent process of Congressional investigations, subpoenas, and impeachment proceedings to hold President Trump accountable for actions that are corrupting the Presidency and damaging our nation. To that end, I am co-sponsoring H. Res. 621, Articles of Impeachment Against President Donald Trump. Congress has the Constitutional obligation to examine the mounting evidence that President Trump has repeatedly obstructed the criminal investigation into Russia’s state-sponsored effort to influence the 2016 presidential election. The recent revelation that the president attempted to fire the lead investigator, Special Counsel Robert Mueller, further underscores the President’s obstruction of justice. The investigation into acts of collusion or conspiracy between the Trump campaign and Russia is legitimate and has resulted in two campaign officials, including President Trump’s former National Security Advisor, pleading guilty to federal crimes. President Trump’s numerous attempts to prevent, obstruct, or impede justice demand action by Congress to hold him accountable. In addition to his obstruction of justice, President Trump’s use of his office to profit personally from outside business interests should be unacceptable to all Americans. President Trump continues to own and influence a global empire of properties and brands for personal profit in direct violation of the Constitution’s Foreign and Domestic Emoluments Clauses. The scope and scale of President Trump’s family business dealings and foreign entanglements is unknown, demanding a thorough examination. Unlike other recent presidents, President Trump has refused to publically release his tax returns or place his business holdings in blind trust. Never before in the history of our nation has a President created a potential for such profound and rampant corruption. It is obvious that Congress must investigate a president who repeatedly obstructs a criminal investigation and appears to be personally profiting from the Presidency. Unfortunately, the Republican-controlled Congress is more interested in covering up for President Trump and protecting itself politically than in conducting a meaningful investigation that provides real accountability for the American people. As a Member of Congress, I must uphold the Constitution. My support for impeachment is rooted in a belief that no president is above the law. Impeachment is the appropriate Constitutional mechanism available to Congress in the event of extreme actions by the President that violate the Constitution, flout our laws, and undermine the trust of Americans. President Trump is the only person responsible for the predicament that he has brought on himself and our country. But it will take action on the part of Congress and the American people to stop the damage that he is causing and to begin to heal our country. My co-sponsorship of H. Res. 621 is a critical step in that effort. Sincerely, Betty McCollum
01.29.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today co-sponsored of articles of impeachment against President Donald Trump. Congresswoman McCollum is the first Minnesota legislator to co-sponsor articles of impeachment. “President Trump has repeatedly and willfully flouted the Constitution and our country’s laws,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “We cannot continue to pretend that President Trump’s conduct is normal, acceptable, or even legal. It is time for Congress to exercise its constitutional responsibility to investigate, issue subpoenas, and commence impeachment hearings to hold President Trump accountable for actions that are corrupting the Presidency and damaging our nation.” The articles — originally introduced by Congressman Steve Cohen (D-Tenn.) — charge President Trump with obstruction of justice and violation of the Constitution’s Emoluments Clauses. Specifically, the articles charge that President Trump has: Obstructed justice, through his repeated attempts to interfere with the investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election — including his firing of FBI Director James Comey; Violated the Constitution’s Foreign Emoluments Clause, by accepting, without permission from Congress, payments from foreign governments; and Violated the Constitution’s Domestic Emoluments Clause, by causing the United States government to spend money at businesses he owns. “The evidence against President Trump is overwhelming and building daily. It is obvious that we need formal Congressional proceedings guided by the Constitution to evaluate these charges and determine in a transparent manner whether Congress should impeach President Trump,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “While this Republican Congress is more interested in covering up for President Trump than fulfilling its constitutional duties, I am convinced the American people will make holding this President accountable for obstructing justice and personally profiting from his office an absolute priority for this Congress and the next.”
01.26.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Washington Post reported that the U.S. Forest Service will cancel the Environmental Impact Statement on the withdrawal of lands from mining in the Superior National Forest adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and instead conduct a less-stringent abbreviated Environmental Assessment: “The U.S. Forest Service has the absolute responsibility to protect the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. That responsibility drove their commitment to conduct a thorough review of whether mining in the Superior National Forest threatens the BWCA’s 1.1 million acres and 1,000 pristine lakes. Unfortunately, the Trump administration's decision to abandon a comprehensive and public Environment Impact Statement appears to demonstrate that an Interior Department hell-bent on advancing toxic mining is calling the shots about the future of this untouched wilderness. “Given his recent actions, it is apparent that Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke cares more about helping mining conglomerates than about protecting the BWCA. Today’s decision is yet another part of the Trump-Zinke agenda to turn our public lands and natural treasures into industrial wastelands for private profit."
01.25.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today announced that Minnesota Senator Richard Cohen (DFL-SD64) will be her guest to the 2018 State of the Union Address, to be delivered by President Trump on Tuesday, January 30. “The Trump administration’s first year has targeted our communities and taken Minnesota backwards through destructive policies like Trumpcare and the Trump-GOP tax scam,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Federal, state, and local officials all have a role to play in standing up to the damaging Republican agenda, and I am pleased to be joined for the State of the Union by Minnesota Senator Dick Cohen, a distinguished legislator and a champion for the arts, our environment, and human rights.” Minnesota Senator Richard Cohen has represented St. Paul in the Minnesota Senate since 1987, where he is the immediate past chair of the Finance Committee. Before his election to the Minnesota Senate, Senator Cohen served in the Minnesota House of Representatives starting in 1977. In addition to his service in state government, Senator Cohen was appointed by President Barack Obama to the President’s Committee on the Arts and Humanities, where he served from 2009 to 2017. Congresswoman McCollum previously announced that she will be wearing black to the State of the Union, in solidarity with women across the country who are bravely speaking up as part of the “Me Too” movement and saying that Time’s Up on the days when sexual harassment and discrimination is tolerated in America’s workplaces.
01.22.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will host a town hall meeting on Thursday, February 1 from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. at North High School in North St. Paul. “The first year of President Trump’s administration has been filled with chaos and a Republican Congress more interested in covering up White House dysfunction than governing our country responsibly,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I want to hear directly from my constituents and share my perspective on how the actions taken by President Trump and the Republicans are impacting Fourth District families and communities. Bring a friend or neighbor and join us on February 1.” WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum WHAT: A Fourth District town hall meeting WHERE: North High School, Auditorium, 2416 11th Avenue, North Saint Paul, MN 55109 WHEN: Thursday, February 1 from 7:00 to 8:00 p.m. The town hall meeting is free and open to the public. No RSVP is required. Media wishing to attend with cameras should email mccollumpress@mail.house.gov to ensure space is available.
01.22.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after voting no on a 17-day continuing resolution funding the federal government through Feb. 8: “Minnesotans get absolutely nothing from this 17-day stopgap spending bill that papers over the abject failure of President Trump and the Republican Congress to agree on a budget and pass appropriations bills. The Republican strategy of lurching from one continuing resolution to the next will continue to cause serious damage to our national security and erode the vital services that families, businesses, and communities depend upon. “While Republicans have finally stopped blocking reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program, this legislation still fails Minnesota children and families. It does nothing to extend Community Health Centers, which will now be forced to lay off staff and limit services. Until Republicans are serious about negotiating with Democrats on a budget agreement, the continuing resolution passed today will simply yield another continuing resolution — or shutdown — next month. That is a terrible deal for Minnesota. “For the past year, President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans have wasted time on Trumpcare and their tax scam instead of working on a long-term budget deal and action on urgent national priorities. They now have until Feb. 8 to reach an agreement with Democrats on a long-term budget deal and other national priorities. With the Trump-GOP shutdown over, it is time for Republicans to end the chaos and begin to negotiate in good faith. “As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will continue to speak out against President Trump and the Republicans’ failure to govern responsibly. And I will continue to vote against further delay on a real budget that meets the needs of our military and upholds our commitments to the American people.”
01.22.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on Jan. 22, 2018 at a press conference with House Democrats about her legislation, the Pay Our Military Act, that ensures our servicewomen and men are paid during a government shutdown. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is below: Thamk you. I am an appropriator and I serve on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. I hear directly from our military leaders on a regular basis about the damaging effects that operating under short-term continuing resolutions have on our military. The reason we are in this shutdown is because Republicans in Congress and President Trump have not worked in good faith on a long-term budget agreement for our national security and our domestic priorities. They wasted an entire year on their disastrous Trumpcare that took away health care from millions of Americans and on their tax scam giveaways to billionaires. That was the Republican priority, not funding our government. Now, as President Trump himself has acknowledged, our active duty military will be among the millions of federal employees working without pay. I grew up in a military family – and I understand the sacrifices that our service members and their families make, while they are deployed and after they come home. It doesn’t matter if you are a Democrat or a Republican, we can all agree that it is wrong to ask our women and men in uniform to put their lives on the line without pay. That’s why I introduced the Pay Our Military Act of 2018. This bill provides both pay and death benefits for our service members during this government shutdown. It includes pay and support for the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, and Coast Guard. And, should one of our servicewomen or men make the ultimate sacrifice during the shutdown, this bill ensures that their family will be taken care of promptly by our country. That is the least we can do. It’s also what we’ve done in the past. In 2013, Democrats and Republicans came together to pass similar legislation unanimously. Unfortunately, when I offered a motion to bring up this bill on Saturday, Republicans defeated it on a party-line vote. In the Senate, Leader McConnell prevented Senator McCaskill from offering the same bill. Today we are entering the first weekday of the Trump Shutdown. We are beginning to feel the real effects that this Republican-inflicted shutdown will have on the American people. It is time for President Trump and the Republicans to stop the political games, end the chaos, and work in good faith across the aisle on an agreement that provides long-term budget certainty and addresses our urgent priorities. I hope that Republicans will do that. But even if they won’t, they should at least work with us now to ensure that our women and men in uniform, active duty, reservists and the National Guard, are not punished for their failure to govern responsibly. Let’s pay our troops, get an agreed upon top line budget number, reopen the government, and get our work done!
01.20.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on the House Floor on January 20, 2018 to introduce the Pay Our Military Act of 2018, which ensures that pay and death benefits for our service members continue during the Trump-Republican shutdown. Video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is available here. Congresswoman McCollum's full remarks are below: Mr. Speaker, the failure of President Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress to do their work on time and in good faith has serious consequences for our country and our national security. The Republican approach of governing by short-term continuing resolution deprives our military of the long-term budget certainty they need to keep our country safe. President Trump’s Secretary of Defense has warned of the severe harm that operating under continuing resolutions has done to our military readiness. Mr. Speaker, it is time for the President and the Republicans to end this chaos and work with us on a long-term budget deal that reopens our government, adequately funds our military, and upholds our commitments here at home. Sadly, the Trump Shutdown that began at midnight means that hundreds of thousands of government employees who serve in critical roles keeping us safe will now be forced to work without pay. And we thank them for their service. As the President himself has acknowledged, this Republican-inflicted shutdown will mean that our active duty military will not get paid, causing serious repercussions for their families. I grew up in a military family and I understand the sacrifices that our service members and their families make. I know that all of us - Democrats and Republicans - agree that it is just plain wrong to ask our men and women in uniform to put their lives on the line without pay. That’s why I’ve introduced the Pay Our Military Act of 2018. This bill provides both pay and death benefits for our servicemen and women during this government shutdown. It includes pay and support for the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, and Coast Guard. This bill ensures that our military is able to perform their duties during any shutdown this fiscal year without worrying about the financial security of their families. Should one of our servicemen or women make the ultimate sacrifice, this bill ensures that their family will be taken care of by our country. That is the least we can do. There is a strong precedent for this bill, and the House passed similar legislation unanimously during the last government shutdown in 2013. This morning, President Trump tweeted that our country needs to be “even better to our military.” The Pay Our Military Act fulfills that mission. I urge a NO vote on the previous question so we can bring up this bill and pay our troops! Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
01.20.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), a senior member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, today introduced the Pay Our Military Act of 2018, H.R. 4871. This legislation provides pay to our servicemen and women, and death gratuities to the families of fallen heroes, during the Trump-Republican government shutdown. “I grew up in a military family and I understand the sacrifices that our servicemembers and their families make. It is just plain wrong to ask our men and women in uniform to go without pay while they put their lives on the line for us,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “The Pay Our Military Act ensures that our military is able to perform their duties during a shutdown without worrying about the financial security of their families.” The Pay Our Military Act provides appropriations for pay and support for the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, and Coast Guard during the current shutdown and any potential future government shutdowns in fiscal year 2018. The House passed similar legislation on votes of 423-0 and 425-0 during the last shutdown in 2013, and both bills were enacted into law. Funding for the federal government expired at midnight on Jan. 20 after President Donald Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress failed to do their work on time and in good faith. The shutdown follows a series of short-term continuing resolutions that have deprived our military of the long-term budget certainty they need to keep our country safe. “It is time for President Trump and the Republicans to end this chaos and work with us on a long-term budget deal that reopens our government, adequately funds our military, and upholds our commitments here at home,” Congresswoman McCollum said.
01.20.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump and the Republican-controlled Congress failed to pass appropriations legislation and shut down the federal government: “President Donald Trump and the Republicans have total control of Washington, but have consistently refused to work with Democrats to fund the federal government or address a long list of urgent national priorities. As we reach the one-year anniversary of the Trump presidency, tonight's government shutdown demonstrates the real consequences of the chaos emanating from an incompetent White House and of Congressional Republicans’ complete failure to govern. “Instead of negotiating a budget agreement with Democrats to fund the government, President Trump and the Republicans wasted all of 2017 on disastrous Trumpcare bills, tax scam legislation, and near constant trips to the President’s private golf clubs. Republicans have lurched from one continuing resolution to the next, imperiling our military readiness, making government less efficient, and depriving families, communities, and businesses of the certainty they deserve. “It is my hope that Republicans will finally sit down with Democrats and negotiate honestly. They must end their political games so important budget and policy agreements can be reached that will end the shutdown, responsibly fund the government for the remainder of 2018, and address pressing issues including disaster relief, expiring health care programs, struggling pension plans, the opioid epidemic, and the DREAM Act.”
01.18.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today delivered remarks on the House Floor in opposition to H.R. 195, the Republicans’ continuing resolution that kicks the can down the road on government funding while ignoring the urgent priorities of Minnesotans and Americans. Video of Congresswoman McCollum’s remarks is available here. The full text of the remarks is below: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this legislation, which ignores the urgent needs of the American people. The federal government’s fiscal year started October 1st of last year. But instead of fulfilling their responsibility to fund our government, President Trump and Republicans spent months working to pass their tax scam. Now, because they didn’t do their jobs, Republicans are asking us to vote to kick the can down the road again. That is no way to run a government. “The American people deserve immediate action on critical issues that matter to our country. We need a budget agreement that keeps our government open, protects our national security, and meets our commitments to hardworking families. We need to protect workers’ pensions by enacting responsible reform that will save struggling pension plans. We need to provide disaster relief to our fellow Americans who were hit hard by hurricanes and wildfires last year. We need to reauthorize the Special Diabetes Program, which funds treatment and prevention programs for Native Americans. And, yes, we need to pass the DREAM Act, which protects children from President Trump’s cruel termination of DACA. “Americans overwhelmingly support action on these priorities. But you won’t find them in this bill. Instead, Republicans have turned this CR into a tax bill for provisions that didn’t make the cut in their tax scam. And while this legislation finally reauthorizes the Children’s Health Insurance Program — which Republicans spent months blocking — it abandons our Community Health Centers, where many children receive their care. Make no mistake: this bill will cause layoffs at clinics and means that fewer people in my district and throughout Minnesota will get the care they need. “Mr. Speaker, the Republican Party has total control in Washington. But instead of working for the American people, President Trump and his allies in Congress are ignoring them. Minnesotans and Americans deserve A Better Deal than we are getting from this Republican Congress. It is time for President Trump and the Republicans to end the chaos and work across the aisle to responsibly fund the government and address our national priorities.”
01.18.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Congressman Collin Peterson (DFL-Minn.), Congressman Keith Ellison (DFL-Minn.), Congressman Tim Walz (DFL-Minn.), and Congressman Rick Nolan (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the proposed continuing resolution being considered today: “Contrary to claims made by some Republicans, the continuing resolution that the U.S. House will consider today does not do nearly enough to address Minnesota’s urgent health care needs. “While we are encouraged that the legislation includes a six-year reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), we are disappointed that the Republican majority did not include a 10-year reauthorization, which would actually reduce annual deficits. By refusing to agree to a 10-year reauthorization, Republicans are denying Minnesota families the certainty they need and leaving billions of dollars in cost savings on the table. “Worse still, the legislation does nothing to reauthorize our community health centers, which provide health care to more than 50,000 Minnesotans. We have heard directly from our community health centers that they will now be forced to lay off employees, meaning care will be rationed for Minnesota’s most vulnerable people, including expecting mothers and senior citizens. “Finally, we are disappointed that the Republican majority has not used this legislation to address Medicaid DSH payments, cuts to which are imperiling the financial stability of Minnesota hospitals. And we object to continued stalling on a reauthorization for the Special Diabetes Program, which funds successful diabetes treatment and prevention programs for Native Americans.”
01.17.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor on January 17, 2018 in opposition to Republican plans to introduce another continuing resolution for federal spending (video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is available here): Mr. Speaker, the Republican Party has total control of Washington. Yet instead of fulfilling their responsibility to fund the government, President Trump and the Republicans wasted the last four months on their tax scam. Because they haven’t done their jobs, Republicans now tell us that we need to kick the can down the road again. Minnesotans and Americans deserve better. We need a budget deal that keeps our government open, protects our national security, and meets our commitments to hardworking families. We need to reauthorize our Community Health Centers, which otherwise will be forced to lay off health care workers. We need to protect workers’ retirement by enacting responsible pension reform. And yes, we must pass the DREAM Act. There is bipartisan support for these priorities. The only thing standing in the way is Republicans’ failure to govern responsibly. Mr. Speaker, it is time for President Trump and the Republicans to end the chaos and instead work across the aisle to meet the urgent needs of the American people.
01.12.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in commemoration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day, which will be observed on Monday, January 15: “This weekend, we take time to reflect on the life and legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. In his 39 years, Dr. King dedicated his life to furthering equality and broadening opportunity for all Americans. Dr. King and his wife Coretta fought for civil rights, defended civil liberties, sought expanded voting rights, demanded health care for all, advocated living wages and union representation, spoke up for women’s reproductive rights, and marched for a more peaceful and just foreign policy. “Today, Dr. King’s legacy and the causes to which he dedicated his life are under direct attack from the Trump-Pence White House and the complicit silence of Congressional Republicans. President Trump openly uses racist rhetoric as his administration rolls back the progress our country has made in living up to Dr. King’s dream. Now, more than ever, Americans must emulate the civic engagement and moral leadership of Dr. King’s movement. In the year ahead, we must redouble our efforts to defend civil rights, speak out against bigotry and discrimination in all forms, and pursue equality and justice for all.”
01.05.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, and Democratic leaders of the Energy and Commerce and Transportation and Infrastructure committees sent a letter to Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator Scott Pruitt today expressing their serious concerns regarding a no-bid contract awarded by EPA to Definers Public Affairs. The Democrats voiced concerns that the $120,000 contract – recently terminated by Definers after press reports brought the contract to light – was awarded without full and open competition to a company with no apparent experience in providing these services to a Federal agency. The Democratic leaders also wrote that they were “deeply troubled” by Definers staffers’ involvement in an apparent witch hunt against EPA employees who may have publicly or privately expressed concerns about the agency or its leadership. In addition to McCollum, the letter was signed by Energy and Commerce Ranking Member Frank Pallone, Jr. (D-NJ), Transportation and Infrastructure Ranking Member Peter DeFazio (D-OR), E&C Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Paul Tonko (D-NY), and T&I Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Grace Napolitano (D-CA). “We have become increasingly concerned about the secrecy and lack of transparency from your administration, and this latest report is an alarming new development,” the Democratic Committee leaders wrote to Administrator Pruitt. “Hiring a firm that offers services attacking the press and surveilling your employees threatens the functioning of your agency and potentially the freedom of the press guaranteed by our Constitution.” As part of their inquiry, the Democrats are requesting answers to a series of questions and additional information from Administrator Pruitt, including: What was Pruitt’s role in selecting Definers for this award? In addition to Pruitt, which EPA political appointees were involved in selecting Definers? Were Pruitt or other EPA political appointees aware of Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests filed by Definers employees against individual agency employees before the contract was awarded? Was Definers, America Rising, or any of their agents involved in creating or funding the website ConfirmPruitt.com? Were Pruitt, his agents, or any current EPA employees involved in generating or reviewing the content of the website ConfirmPruitt.com, or providing or raising funds for the site? What work did Definers perform for EPA pursuant to the contract? What was the total amount of taxpayer funds EPA paid Definers during the duration of the contract? On December 10, The New York Times published an article identifying an alarming decrease in enforcement actions brought by the EPA under Pruitt’s leadership. EPA issued an unusual press release in response, which has since been removed from the agency website but continues to be cited by conservative media sources. What role did Definers play in the agency’s response to the December 10th article? Provide any correspondence between EPA and any representative of Definers, America Rising, America Rising Squared, and the Need to Know Network regarding the December 10th article. What firewalls were in place in the contract with Definers Corp to ensure that Definers firewalled the media monitoring services provided under the Contract from its services that would violate the Publicity or Propaganda Prohibition and Anti-Lobbying provisions? Please provide a copy of the contract between EPA and Definers Corp. including any statement of work. The letter to Administrator Pruitt is available HERE.
01.04.2018	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the Trump administration's decision to expand offshore oil and gas drilling off all U.S. coasts: "The Trump administration's decision to allow offshore drilling off all U.S. coasts— including protected areas of the Acrtic and the Atlantic — threatens the safety of American communities and the health of our environment. It fits the pattern of this administration’s reckless approach to drilling and mining. President Donald Trump and Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke are clearly determined to pad the profits of Big Oil and extractive industries, while putting natural treasures like the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and Minnesota’s own Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness at risk of destruction. "In May, I joined a bipartisan group of House members urging Secretary Zinke to maintain existing policies that protect the Atlantic and Pacific coasts from oil and gas exploration. Now, I plan to work with across the aisle with my colleagues and with concerned Americans to overturn Secretary Zinke’s disastrous decision and protect our coasts from dangerous drilling."
12.22.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the Interior Department’s decision to reverse itself and reinstate leases for dangerous sulfide-ore copper mining on federal lands adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness: “I spoke with the Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke on the phone yesterday and he reiterated to me directly just how precious the waters of the Boundary Waters Canoe Wilderness Area are and the need for ongoing environmental study. Twenty-four hours later, he broke his word and issued mining leases footsteps from the BWCA to a foreign-owned mining company. Clearly, the numerous assurances I received from Secretary Zinke about protecting the BWCA were worthless and deceitful.” “The Trump administration is blatantly dishonest and cannot be trusted. They are determined to sell, exploit, and destroy the American people’s natural treasures like Bears Ears National Monument, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, and now our own Boundary Waters and Voyageurs National Park. For every Minnesotan and American who believes in conservation and values our national resources, the battle lines are drawn.”
12.21.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following remarks in opposition to House Republicans’ irresponsible three-week continuing resolution, which includes provisions that waive fiscal responsibility measures triggered by the Trump-GOP tax scam: “Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this continuing resolution. The federal government’s fiscal year started three months ago. This Republican Congress still hasn’t passed a full-year of federal funding. Rather than protecting our nation and meeting the needs of the American people, we are now debating a third continuing resolution to kick the can into January. “Republicans control this House, the Senate, and the White House. Clearly they do not take their responsibility to fund the federal government seriously. Frankly, they should be embarrassed. For the past three months, Democrats have sought to work with Republicans to secure a budget agreement and responsibly pass appropriations bills. But Republicans have been too busy to meet this basic responsibility. “Instead, they have spent months working in secret on their deficit-busting tax scam. And let’s be clear: the Republican tax scam is part of this CR as well. This CR contains language to exempt the Republicans’ lavish tax cuts for big corporations and billionaires from the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act. Republicans passed their tax scam knowing that it was fiscally irresponsible and would trigger huge cuts to Medicare and other vital programs. Now they are asking Democrats to help bail them out. “I didn’t vote for the Republican tax scam, and I’m not going to paper over their mistakes so President Trump can sign it into law. “But here is what I will do. As the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I know Republican appropriators are as frustrated as I am. And I want to work with them to find common ground and responsibly fund our government. It’s time for appropriators to do our job – Republicans and Democrats together. It’s time to get back to work.
12.19.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed the final version of the Trump-GOP tax scam: “Today House Republicans voted to raise taxes on middle class Minnesotans to pay for a deficit-exploding giveaway to big corporations and billionaires. With its rollback of the state and local tax deduction and its dismantling of key parts of the Affordable Care Act, this bill is especially harmful to Minnesota. “The Trump-GOP tax bill was written in secret and loaded up with special interest provisions, including a kickback to wealthy real estate investors like President Donald Trump and a Big Oil-backed plan to turn parts of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge into an industrial oil field. The trillions of dollars in giveaways to the wealthy and well-connected in this bill will explode annual deficits and trigger cuts to vital programs like Medicare, Medicaid, nutrition assistance, veterans’ benefits, and even Social Security. “In my 17 years in the U.S. House, I have seen few pieces of legislation as devastating as this tax scam. In the year ahead, I look forward to joining millions of Minnesotans and Americans holding the Republicans who voted for this bill accountable.”
12.14.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today condemned the Federal Communications Commission’s decision to repeal net neutrality rules and announced her intention to co-sponsor new legislation to overturn the FCC’s decision. “Net neutrality is a cornerstone of a free and open internet. The FCC’s partisan decision to end this basic principle is yet another example of how Republicans are padding the pockets of big corporations at the expense of consumers and small businesses,” Congresswoman McCollum said. Congresswoman McCollum also announced her intention to join Congressman Mike Doyle (D-Pa.) and other House Democrats on legislation to use the Congressional Review Act to overturn the FCC’s decision and restore net neutrality. “Congress has the power to overturn the FCC’s terrible decision, and we should use it,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud to join House Democrats in support of commonsense legislation to nullify this decision, preserve net neutrality, and save the internet.”
12.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on Governor Mark Dayton’s appointment of Lieutenant Governor Tina Smith to serve in the United States Senate: “Lieutenant Governor Tina Smith is an outstanding choice to be Minnesota’s next United States Senator. I have worked with Tina for years — she is a good friend, an incredibly hard worker, and a woman who is totally committed to our state. “Tina will be a fierce advocate for families, work for good jobs, and fight to protect health care for all Minnesotans. I look forward to working with her in Congress to continue building a country where everyone has the opportunity to contribute and succeed.”
12.12.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) wrote in The Nation about her legislation — the Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of Palestinian Children Act, H.R. 4391 — that prevents United States tax dollars from supporting the Israeli military’s ongoing detention and mistreatment of Palestinian children. "The Israeli-Palestinian conflict has persisted for decades, including 50 years of Israeli military occupation of Palestinian lands. To help sustain the occupation, Israel’s military and police forces have arrested, interrogated, and imprisoned thousands of Palestinian children, mostly for throwing stones. Israel’s military court and detention system is unique in the world in its systematic incarceration of children, in this case Palestinian children. It is a system that denies basic due-process rights and is cruel, inhumane, and degrading. "It should not require tremendous moral courage to stand up for the human rights of children. Sadly, the exception appears to be when those children are Palestinian. I firmly believe that Palestinian children deserve to be treated with the same humanity, dignity, and human rights as any child anywhere, including children in the United States or Israel. "For Israel, this means honoring its international commitments and ending the widespread and systematic cruel and inhumane treatment of Palestinian children. For the United States, it means prohibiting American funds from being used to support Israel’s abusive military detention of children and requiring the State Department to certify Israel’s compliance. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum's op-ed can be found here. Resources on H.R. 4391 and the Congresswomna's work to promote human rights for Palestinian children can be found here.
12.07.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the resignation of Senator Al Franken: “Today is a sad day for Minnesota. Senator Al Franken has been more than a colleague — he has been a friend and an ally on the issues that are most important to Minnesota families. Al’s voice and vote were instrumental in extending health care to millions of Americans, helping our students succeed, and upholding our commitments to tribal nations. “As we move forward, I know that Governor Mark Dayton will appoint a qualified person to serve Minnesotans in the Senate. I look forward to working with our new Senator to help Minnesota families and stand up to President Trump and the Republicans’ divisive agenda.”
12.06.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on Senator Al Franken: “The allegations against Senator Al Franken make it impossible for him to be an effective Senator for Minnesota. When he makes his announcement tomorrow, I have every confidence that he will do the right thing for Minnesota and our country.”
12.06.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after it was reported that President Donald Trump will recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and begin the process of relocating the U.S. Embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem: “President Donald Trump’s decision to extend American recognition to Jerusalem as the capital of Israel is an unnecessary and irresponsible act designed solely to appease the most extreme ideologues in Israel and the United States. The President is willfully abdicating the United States’ role as a peacemaker in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, ending any hope of a two-state solution with East Jerusalem as the capital of a Palestinian state. “President Trump’s decision sabotages relations with the Palestinians, threatens to stoke even more conflict in the Middle East, and further embarrasses the United States in the world.”
12.05.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in support of H. Con. Res. 90, which condemns the ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya in Burma and calls for an end to the attacks in and an immediate restoration of humanitarian access to the state of Rakhine in Burma. Congresswoman McCollum visited Burma and Bangladesh on a Congressional fact-finding mission last month. Video of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is here. Congresswoman McCollum's full remarks are below: "Mr. Speaker, last month I visited Burma and Bangladesh on a Congressional fact-finding mission. Our visits to refugee camps and our conversations with survivors made it clear that the persecution of the Rohingya people in Burma's Rakhine State is a severe humanitarian crisis that demands robust American leadership. "This resolution is an important first step in demonstrating that Congress will not tolerate human rights abuses against Rohingyas. As our delegation saw, there is a path forward. The Burmese government and military must fully implement the recommendations of former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan's advisory commission. "Burma must work with Bangladesh and the UN for the voluntary repatriation of Rohingya refugees with guarantees of a safe return. A fair process to allow Rohingyas to apply for and secure citizenship must be established. "Finally, there must be an independent investigation to ensure accountability for the atrocities and abuses that have taken place. "Mr. Speaker, I saw people suffering in both Burma and Bangladesh. They are crying out for action. The United States and the international community must help them secure justice."
12.04.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee and Democratic co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, released the following statement after President Donald Trump signed an executive order to divide and dramatically shrink the Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monuments: “President Donald Trump has put Native American sacred sites and some of our nation’s most iconic places in the crosshairs of corporations who want to drill and mine on America’s public lands. Once again, President Trump is putting extractive industries before the best interests of the American people. “I am particularly outraged by the elimination of the Bears Ears National Monument. This monument was established with the support of the Zuni, Ute, Ute Mountain Ute, Navajo, and Hopi tribal nations, who petitioned our government to protect more than 100,000 cultural artifacts, sacred sites, and traditional tribal practices by creating this Monument. It is simply unconscionable to open these places that mean so much to our Native American brothers and sisters to oil drilling and uranium mining. “The preservation of places like Bears Ears and Grand Staircase-Escalante is the reason the Antiquities Act was established by Congress. President Trump’s decision to strip protections from more than two million acres of public lands is not just wrong — it is almost certainly illegal. I strongly support efforts to challenge President Trump’s abuse of power in court. Americans must keep working to safeguard our public lands and save America’s treasures.”
12.01.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s National Security Adviser Michael Flynn pled guilty to lying to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the Trump-Russia scandal: “Today’s guilty plea confirms that collusion with Russia reached the highest levels of the White House. The extent of criminal activity and corruption in the Trump-Pence campaign, transition, and administration is becoming increasingly clear. “Every American should be outraged by the fact President Trump’s top advisor was colluding with Russia. No matter where this investigation leads, the Trump-Pence White House cannot wiggle out of responsibility for Flynn’s crimes: President Trump empowered Flynn despite warnings from both President Obama and his own transition team. “Given the Flynn plea, Congress must take action to both protect Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III from White House interference and to establish a bipartisan, independent commission to examine Russia’s interference in our democracy and Russia’s collusion with the Trump-Pence apparatus.”
11.30.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after it was reported that the State Department warned the White House that President Donald Trump’s anti-Muslim Tweets put the safety of Americans at risk around the world: “Yesterday, President Donald Trump used his Twitter account to spew bigoted, racist, and vile propaganda produced by the hate group Britain First. I condemn President Trump’s dangerous actions, which put Americans at risk, undermine our relationships with allies like the United Kingdom, and embolden our adversaries. Increasingly, it appears that President Trump’s erratic behavior and irrational decision making is jeopardizing our national security. “When the President of the United States embraces and emboldens hate groups, at home or abroad, Congress must formally examine his fitness for office and his ability to continue to lead this great nation. President Trump must be held to account for his actions and his words.”
11.30.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the U.S. House of Representatives passed legislation paving the way for toxic sulfide-ore copper mining on the doorstep of Minnesota’s Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness: “The polluters won today, but the fight is not over. I am deeply disappointed that the U.S. House of Representatives is now on the record supporting toxic sulfide-ore copper mining on the doorstep of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, which would destroy this pristine wilderness forever. “However, the vote was close and showed the broad, bipartisan opposition to a foreign conglomerate threatening our Boundary Waters with toxic mining. I am very appreciative that 22 Republicans broke ranks and joined 182 Democrats voting against this destructive bill. “This close vote sends a clear message to the Senate that this legislation is politically toxic and should not even be considered, much less passed. Minnesotans and Americans must not give up: We must keep making our voices heard and urging our Senators to save the Boundary Waters.”
11.29.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) made the following remarks on the House Floor in strong opposition to H.R. 3905, legislation that paves the way for toxic sulfide-ore copper mining on the doorstep of Minnesota’s Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness: Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to this destructive bill. This bill undermines bedrock environmental and public land management laws in order to create perpetual leases for a foreign-owned, toxic mine. This mine will be on the doorstep of one of our country’s last truly wild places—The Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. The Boundary Waters contains 1.1 million acres of unspoiled woodlands and more than 1,000 pristine lakes. This water wilderness is beloved by adventurers, canoers, and sportsmen and women from across the United States and around the world. To safeguard this natural treasure, Congress has prohibited logging, mining, and even the use of most motorized vehicles on this federal land. This has made the Boundary Waters a haven for birds and other wildlife, and the most-visited wilderness area in the United States. These visitors—over 250,000 annually—have helped the economy and created jobs in northern Minnesota. But the bill we are debating today puts all that at risk. It paves the way for a massive sulfide-ore copper mine just a few miles from the Boundary Waters wilderness. Sulfide-ore mining is the most toxic industry in the United States. Sulfide mines pollute waterways with acid drainage that contains arsenic, mercury and lead. This type of mining is particularly risky in the vast, interconnected watershed that flows north through the Boundary Waters, into Voyageurs National Park, and across the border into a Canadian Provincial Park. Supporters of H.R. 3905 claim that the bill still protects the Boundary Waters, because the mines will be located outside the wilderness area. Mr. Speaker, this is simply not the case. Let me show you where this mining would take place. This is the site of the proposed mine, on the edge of the wilderness area. The river that you see flows through the Boundary Waters. This area contains popular Forest Service campgrounds and entry points to the wilderness. It is a base for scouting and veterans’ outdoor recreation trips. Some of the Superior National Forest’s most popular fishing lakes and hunting grounds are in this area, as are hundreds of homes and businesses. If this bill passes, it will create an industrial wasteland along this chain of lakes and rivers, which so many people and businesses depend on. This bill poses an unacceptable risk of irreparable damage to a pristine wilderness. A 2012 study of American sulfide-ore mines found that ALL of them had leaked, and 92 percent had experienced failures that negatively affected the local water quality. Even state-of-the-art sulfide-ore copper mines consistently pollute their surrounding environments. For example, in August 2014, a copper mine in British Columbia released a toxic slurry— 10 billion liters of wastewater and 5 billion liters of tailings—that created a polluted dystopia of dead trees and a contaminated salmon spawning area. Because of the risk involved with these mines, the Forest Service has begun a two-year environmental review. It will determine if the Boundary Waters is an appropriate place for dangerous sulfide-ore copper mining, or if a 20-year withdrawal of mining rights in the watershed is appropriate. This review is the process that Congress established, under the Federal Land Policy and Management Act, for considering a mineral withdrawal. The review is supported by Minnesota’s Governor, tribal governments, and 79 percent of all Minnesotans. But the bill we are considering today stops this established, scientific review process from going forward. Instead, it creates a loophole for the benefit of a foreign mining interest. It automatically reinstates two expired and denied mining leases, which date back to 1966—before modern environmental protection laws like the Clean Water Act. It allows permanent mining leases on National Forest land— our nation’s public land— removing scientific safeguards, environmental considerations, and public input from the renewal process. It exempts the federal forests in Minnesota from the protections of the landmark Antiquities Act. This sets a dangerous precedent that will have consequences across our country. There is simply no justification for Congress to rewrite the rules for our federal forests in Minnesota. But that’s exactly what this piece of legislation does. In short, this proposal is a giveaway of public resources to private interests — with one of our nation’s last wild places as the collateral damage. Good people of both parties— all across Minnesota and throughout our country— know the importance of protecting this pristine wilderness. That is why so many of them have submitted letters to Congress in opposition to H.R. 3905. I will be entering into the record just a few of those letters from: Minnesota’s Governor Mark Dayton; Three tribal nations—the Fond du Lac, Grand Portage, and White Earth Bands of the Minnesota Chippewa; The Theodore Roosevelt Conservation Partnership, the National Wildlife Federation, and other sporting groups. The Girl Scouts of Minnesota and Wisconsin; Veterans for the Boundary Waters; and a coalition of dozens of national organizations that advocate for clean water, public lands, and conservation. I urge all of my colleagues to join me, and to join them, in opposing this bill. I yield back the balance of my time. Fond du Lac Grand Portage White Earth
11.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in opposition to H.R. 3115, the Superior National Forest Land Exchange Act of 2017, which mandates an exchange of more than 6,600 acres in the Superior National Forest to expedite construction of the Polymet mine: Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to H.R. 3115, the Superior National Forest Land Exchange Act of 2017. This bill mandates the exchange of more than 6,600 acres in the Superior National Forest for the construction of a massive open pit sulfide-ore copper and nickel mine. This project is very controversial, and a majority of Minnesotans oppose toxic sulfide-ore mining because it is a threat to water quality, public lands, and outdoor recreation in our state. This legislation also raises serious due process concerns. There are four pending lawsuits challenging the land exchange based on existing environmental laws and concerns about appropriate appraisal values. Federal courts are still considering these lawsuits, but this legislation undermines proper judicial review to expedite construction of the Polymet mine. Finally, this bill ignores the treaty rights of the Fond du Lac Band of Lake Superior Chippewa, a federally recognized tribal nation. The Fond du Lac Reservation is downstream from the proposed mine site. As the Tribal Chairman has told Congress, this mine will “pose a direct threat to the water, and the fish, game and wild rice on which the Tribe depends.” The National Congress of American Indians also strongly opposes this legislation. H.R. 3115 undermines legal due process, environmental safeguards, and the treaty rights of our Native American brothers and sisters. I urge my colleagues to vote no on H.R. 3115.
11.22.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in commemoration of National Native American Heritage Month, which is proclaimed each November: "National Native American Heritage Month is a celebration of the contributions of the First Americans. November is a time to honor the 11 Ojibwe and Dakota nations in Minnesota and the 567 diverse federally recognized tribal nations across the country. We remember their vital and often difficult role in our national history, and celebrate how tribal nations make our communities and our country stronger today. "Despite centuries of violent discrimination and abusive policies, our country’s Native American cultures and nations have endured. Tribal governments and Native communities have made monumental progress. Our federal trust relationship with tribal nations has grown stronger in the current era of self-governance among Native American tribes. This proud accomplishment requires the federal government’s full and respectful engagement, and there can be no backsliding. "As a co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus and the Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I have met with hundreds of tribal leaders to discuss the needs of Indian Country. Working together, we have succeeded in making substantial progress on education, health, and criminal justice issues. Across party lines, we have rejected proposals to cut services for Native Americans and instead worked to increase the federal resources flowing to Indian Country. "Despite these steps, we have much more work to do to address disparities and empower all Native Americans – especially our Native youth. As we honor the achievements and resilience of our First Americans, I will continue working to ensure that our Native American brothers and sisters have every opportunity to succeed."
11.22.2017	As horrifying acts against the Burmese Rohingya minority and the related refugee crisis continue, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and a Congressional delegation led by Senator Jeff Merkley (D-Ore.) has completed a fact-finding mission to Burma and Bangladesh. Congresswoman McCollum and her colleagues visited refugee camps in Bangladesh and Rohingya communities in Burma and saw firsthand the impact of the humanitarian crisis and the urgent need for international action to end the violence and repatriate the Rohingya who are currently in refugee camps in Bangladesh. The delegation also met with government officials and international organizations in both countries. “The persecution of Rohingya in Burma is a humanitarian crisis that has shocked the world and demands robust American leadership,” said McCollum. “The message of our trip is clear: we must not tolerate violence, discrimination, and human rights abuses anywhere in the world. We are also insisting that the United States must do our part to assist the refugees who have fled Burma as they work to rebuild their lives.” The delegation called on Burma to address the root causes of the conflict and address the plight of the 600,000 Rohingya refugees. Specifically, Congresswoman McCollum and the delegation called on the government of Burma to take the following steps: Full implementation of the recommendations of former United Nations (UN) Secretary General Kofi Annan’s advisory commission on the Rakhine state. Full access for humanitarian organizations. Currently only the International Committee of the Red Cross has access. Freedom of movement and a path to ending discrimination. A fair path to securing full citizenship rights. Work with Bangladesh and the UN for voluntary and safe repatriation of Rohingya refugees, who should have the ability to go back to their villages and farms, with guarantees of safety. The delegation also called for refugees to receive assistance rebuilding homes and community facilities that have been burned. A full investigation and accountability for the atrocities that have taken place. McCollum and Merkley were joined on the delegation by Senator Dick Durbin (D-Ill.) and Representatives Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.) and David Cicilline (D-R.I.).
11.21.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on House and Senate Republicans' tax bills and their serious detrimental effects on affordable housing for Minnesotans and Americans: “Minnesotans and Americans have an urgent need for more affordable housing, yet President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans seem intent on taking us in the wrong direction with their tax legislation. When it comes to housing, the House-passed tax bill renders much of the Low Income Housing Tax Credit useless and repeals the Historic Tax Credit entirely. It threatens affordable housing for thousands of Minnesotans and it means that more families find it harder to make ends meet. “The legislative process is not over, and we must keep working to defeat this bill. Last Thursday, Democrats were joined by 13 Republicans in voting against the Trump-GOP tax scam. While it wasn’t enough, if Minnesotans and Americans keep standing up and speaking out, we can stop this bill and protect affordable housing for our children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities.”
11.17.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the Trump administration’s third emergency supplemental funding request for relief and recovery from Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria: “The Trump administration’s latest supplemental request is woefully inadequate. I am appalled that the Trump administration wants to make people suffering in Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands wait even longer to rebuild their homes and lives. The request also fails Florida, Texas, and those impacted by the wildfires in California. Our fellow Americans deserve better. “It is deeply disappointing that the Trump administration is proposing to offset this emergency assistance by attacking other programs, including reckless cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. Slashing critical investments in our country’s water infrastructure as millions of Americans in Puerto Rico are dealing with a public health crisis from sewage spills and contaminated water is shameful. And all Americans should be offended that the Trump administration is using this emergency request to advance its anti-environment agenda and impose more debilitating cuts on the EPA’s operating account.”
11.16.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the House passed Republicans’ tax bill, which raises taxes on middle class Minnesotans while giving new tax breaks to big corporations and billionaires: “Just as they did with their cruel Trumpcare health care bill, House Republicans have shown their true colors by passing a tax bill that raises taxes on middle class Minnesotans while giving tax cuts to big corporations and billionaires. “The Trump-GOP tax scam singles out Minnesotans for higher taxes by ending the state and local tax deduction, punishes people with high medical bills by eliminating the medical expense deduction, and even makes it harder for students and families to pay for college. This bill will explode the federal debt, guaranteeing that Republicans will move forward with cuts to Medicare, Medicaid, and eventually Social Security. “This fight for the middle class is far from over, and Minnesotans and Americans must keep standing up and speaking out to defeat the Trump-GOP tax scam as it proceeds through the legislative process. In the long run, I have no doubt that Minnesotans and Americans will hold the legislators who voted for this scam accountable in 2018.”
11.16.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the allegations against Senator Al Franken: “The Senate Ethics Committee should conduct a formal inquiry into the disturbing allegations made against Senator Franken. The account and photo released today can only be described as completely inappropriate.”
11.14.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today introduced legislation— the Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of Palestinian Children Act, H.R. 4391 — to prevent United States tax dollars from supporting the Israeli military’s ongoing detention and mistreatment of Palestinian children. The full text of the bill can be found here. An estimated 10,000 Palestinian children have been detained by Israeli security forces and prosecuted in the Israeli military court system since 2000. Independent monitors such as Human Rights Watch have documented that these children are subject to abuse and, in some cases, torture — specifically citing the use of chokeholds, beatings, and coercive interrogation on children between the ages of 11 and 15. In addition, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has found that Palestinian children are frequently held for extended periods without access to either their parents or attorneys. “This legislation highlights Israel’s system of military detention of Palestinian children and ensures that no American assistance to Israel supports human rights violations,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Peace can only be achieved by respecting human rights, especially the rights of children. Congress must not turn a blind eye the unjust and ongoing mistreatment of Palestinian children living under Israeli occupation.” The Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of Palestinian Children Act requires that the Secretary of State certify that American funds do not support Israel’s military detention, interrogation, abuse, or ill-treatment of Palestinian children. Given that the Israeli government receives billions of dollars in assistance from the United States, Congress must work to ensure that American taxpayer dollars never support the Israeli military’s detention or abuse of Palestinian children. Joining Congresswoman McCollum as original co-sponsors of the Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of Palestinian Children Act are Representatives Mark Pocan, Earl Blumenauer, André Carson, John Conyers, Jr., Danny K. Davis, Peter A. DeFazio, Raul Grijalva, Luis V. Gutiérrez, and Chellie Pingree. The legislation has been endorsed by the American Friends Service Committee, Amnesty International USA, Center for Constitutional Rights, Churches for Middle East Peace, Defense for Children International - Palestine, Friends Committee on National Legislation, Global Ministries of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) and United Church of Christ, Jewish Voice for Peace, Mennonite Central Committee, Presbyterian Church (USA), the U.S. Campaign for Palestinian Rights, United Methodists for Kairos Response (UMKR), and United Methodist General Board of Church and Society. “Churches for Middle East Peace (CMEP) strongly endorses Rep. Betty McCollum's Promoting Human Rights by Ending Israeli Military Detention of Palestinian Children Act. In order for the U.S. to play a constructive role in bringing about a comprehensive and sustainable end to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we must ensure we are not supporting the continued trauma inflicted on Palestinian youth entangled in the Israeli Military Detention system,” Churches for Middle East Peace said in a statement. "Jewish tradition teaches that each and every single person has inherent dignity and worth and must be treated accordingly. This legislation recognizes and acts upon the inherent dignity and worth of Palestinian children and sends the message that the United States is committed to a future with freedom, safety, and equality for both Palestinians and Israelis,” Jewish Voices for Peace said in a statement.
11.09.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in observance of Veterans Day: “On Veterans Day, we set aside time to honor the service of the courageous women and men who have served as soldiers, sailors, Airmen, Marines, Coast Guardsmen and in the Merchant Marine. At the same time, we reflect on the tremendous sacrifices made by their family and loved ones. “More than just our gratitude, veterans and their families deserve the support of a grateful nation when they return home. Minnesota’s 400,000 veterans need good jobs, high-quality health care, the benefits they are due and deserve, and robust educational and housing opportunities. I am proud of how far we have come to meet these obligations, but I know that we have much more work to do. “This Veterans Day, let us renew our commitment to our veterans and their families. Let us ensure that they receive the gratitude and support that they have earned. And let us honor the commitment that, just as we leave no soldier behind in battle, we will leave no veteran behind when they come home.”
11.08.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered remarks on the House Floor today in strong opposition to House Republicans’ tax bill, which increases taxes on many middle class families to provide giveaways to big corporations and billionaires. Video of Congresswoman McCollum’s remarks is available here. The full text is below: Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong opposition to Republicans’ tax scam. The middle class receives virtually no benefit from this bill. In fact, many of my constituents will actually see a tax increase. This bill hits middle class Minnesotans especially hard by dismantling the state and local tax deduction. It increases costs for college students and their families, it abandons adoptive parents, and it punishes people with high medical bills. Why does this bill hurt hard-working families? So President Trump and Republicans can pay for a giveaway to the wealthiest Americans. Big corporations and billionaires will see their taxes slashed. Wealthy heirs and heiresses will be allowed to dodge taxes entirely. While the top 1 percent of Americans receives nearly half the tax cuts, 99 percent of us will be stuck with a federal debt that will explode by trillions of dollars. Mr. Speaker, this Republican bill is not tax reform. It's not a good deal for the middle class. It’s a scam, plain and simple. I oppose it. We must defeat it.
11.07.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today urged her colleagues to oppose House Republicans’ tax bill that makes higher education more expensive for students and working families in Minnesota and across the United States. According to their own estimates, House Republicans’ bill will increase the cost of higher education to American students and their families by at least $65 billion over the next 10 years. “I hear every day from Minnesota families who are already struggling to pay the cost of college and job training. Unbelievably, my Republican colleagues now want to make it even harder to afford higher education,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Minnesotans should be outraged by this terrible proposal, especially because the higher costs forced on students and families are being used to give tax cuts to big corporations and billionaires.” House Republicans’ bill ends the student loan interest deduction, adding to the costs that students face in paying their student loans. It also dramatically hikes taxes on graduate students, eliminates incentives for companies to offer tuition assistance to their workers, and increases costs for nontraditional students by ending the Lifetime Learning Tax Credit. Colleges and universities across the country have joined Congresswoman McCollum and House Democrats opposing these damaging provisions. In a letter to Congresswoman McCollum yesterday, the Minnesota Private College Council strongly opposed the Republican bill’s higher education-related provisions. “We ask you to oppose this tax bill in its present form and work to shape a tax bill that protects the investments the federal government makes in students, families, and higher education institutions through the federal tax code,” the letter said.
11.02.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans formally unveiled their tax legislation, the so-called “Tax Cuts and Jobs Act”: “As expected, House Republicans’ idea of tax reform is to force working families in Minnesota and across the United States to pay for a massive giveaway to billionaires, CEOs, and big corporations. Their bill hands the wealthiest Americans hundreds of thousands of dollars each year, slashes taxes on big corporations, and helps heirs and heiresses dodge taxes entirely. “For working families in Minnesota, this Republican bill is a raw deal, not reform. Most middle class families will see virtually no tax benefit, while many Minnesotans will actually see their taxes increase because of the elimination of the state and local tax deduction. Worse still, this Republican bill explodes the federal deficit and adds trillions to the federal debt, threatening the investments that keep our families and communities healthy and strong. “Middle class Americans must come first with a real, bipartisan tax reform plan. This Republican bill fails Minnesota families. I oppose it.”
10.30.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) issued the following statement after a federal grand jury indicted President Donald Trump’s former campaign chairman Paul Manafort and deputy campaign chairman Rick Gates in the ongoing special counsel investigation of President Trump and Russia: “The criminal charges against President Donald Trump’s top campaign aides confirm that illegal activity and unethical behavior proliferated in the President’s inner circle. Our worst fears about President Trump and his associates’ poor judgment and bad intentions have once again been confirmed. “Going forward, Congress must protect Special Counsel Robert Mueller III from interference by President Trump and establish an independent commission to publicly examine Russia’s meddling in our election and the involvement of Trump officials. “Unfortunately, Congressional Republicans seem more interested in covering up for President Trump than following the facts wherever they lead. If Republicans keep refusing to do their jobs, I have every confidence that the American people will hold them accountable alongside President Trump.”
10.26.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the House adopted House Republicans’ budget resolution, which expedites consideration of the Trump-Ryan-McConnell tax framework: “House Republicans’ budget reflects their priorities: it fast tracks lavish tax breaks for billionaires and big corporations, slashes health care for families, guts investments in America’s future, and forces working families to pay for it all. “Minnesotans should understand exactly what this budget vote means: it will allow expedited action on the Trump-Ryan-McConnell tax plan, which gives the top 1 percent of wealthy Americans 80 percent of the benefits. By eliminating the state and local tax deduction that helps middle class Minnesotans, it actually raises taxes on working families in our state. “Make no mistake: every Republican who voted for the budget today voted to raise taxes on working Minnesotans to fund a giveaway to the wealthiest Americans.”
10.19.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered remarks at the 50th anniversary celebration for the Open Cities Health Center, held on October 19, 2017: Good morning! I am thrilled to be with you all. Let me start by saying … Happy Birthday Open Cities! For 50 years Open Cities has been dedicated to meeting the healthcare needs of our community. And for that, all I can say is thank you! Thank you to the amazing healthcare professionals and office staff who have been served patients with quality care, respect, and dignity for five decades. Thank you to the leadership of board members, community members, and CEO Jim Platten – for building and sustaining a community health center that is trusted, valued, and critical to the well-being of thousands of Minnesotans. Thank you for remarkable people like Dr. Fred and Gwen Lewis! I have a fundamental belief when it comes to healthcare. I believe healthcare should be a right for all Americans! I believe accessing quality healthcare makes us all healthier, makes families more successful, and makes America a stronger nation. Whenever I visit the Dunlap Clinic or the North End Clinic – I see Open Cities’ staff not only improving a patient’s quality of life, but providing care with respect and dignity that elevates all of our humanity. I believe in your work. Your work is essential. And, as you well know, our community depends on your success. But we live in strange times. We are watching the White House and Congress are doing everything in their power to take healthcare coverage away from people. All of our shared success at expending coverage, containing costs, improving access, providing quality care, and changing lives for the better – it is all under attack! Primary care and preventive screenings are not a luxury – they are essential to keeping people healthy! The ACA – Obamacare – is not a dirty word – it is a policy I voted for, I support, and I am going to keep fighting to protect because it has changed lives and saved lives. Friends, we have our hands full. I want you all to focus on keeping people healthy. Yes, that is a top priority. But I also need active, engaged citizens who are willing to have their voices heard across this country. I need your help because we need to protect our community health centers, we need to protect Medicaid, we need to protect CHIP, and we need to protect and fight for healthcare for millions of Americans who will get sicker and sicker unless we stop the Trump Administration and this Congress from destroying Obamacare. Congress still has not extended funding for community health centers to avoid what is known as the primary care cliff. Federal funding expired at the end of September and instead of funding this critical initiative, Congress left town without getting its work done. You need to know I am 100-percent committed to fighting to fully fund our community health centers! Open Cities is not only a success story, it is truly a national model of quality, integrated care. I am honored to be here to celebrate the remarkable achievements of the past 50 years. And, as we look forward, I know we shall overcome the trials and tribulations of the current political environment. We look forward to improvements, efficiencies, and even higher quality care – but, in the Open Cities tradition, it will always be rooted in compassion, respect, and the needs of the community. Thank you and I wish Open Cities all the best as you start the next 50 years of remarkable service to our community.
10.17.2017	U.S. Representatives Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Rick Nolan, Collin Peterson, and Tim Walz wrote to House Speaker Paul Ryan and House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady today urging them to reject proposals to eliminate the state and local tax (SALT) deduction. “As Minnesotans, we write to express our strong concerns about recent proposals to eliminate the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction,” the lawmakers wrote. “We strongly urge you to reject this misguided proposal that would harm our state.” Since the Revenue Act of 1913, federal law has acknowledged that the taxes citizens pay to state and local government are not disposable income and should not be taxed as such. The SALT deduction also recognizes that the state and local taxes Minnesotans pay are supporting a healthy and competitive state, strong communities, and excellent schools. Of the 948,000 Minnesota households that itemized their federal tax deductions in 2015, 99.8 percent — 35 percent of all of Minnesota’s filing households — claimed a deduction for state and local taxes. The vast majority of households claiming the SALT deduction are middle class, and the average SALT benefit in Minnesota was $12,954. “Enacting tax hikes on our middle class constituents is the wrong way to approach reform. Eroding our ability to continue the public investments that are helping our state thrive is a backwards approach,” the lawmakers wrote. “Asking our hard-working constituents to consent to double-taxation when large companies are excused from the same obligation is unfair.” A PDF copy of the letter is available here. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Speaker Ryan and Chairman Brady, As Minnesotans, we write to express our strong concerns about recent proposals to eliminate the State and Local Tax (SALT) deduction. While all of us would like to see a simpler and fairer tax system that helps our families and businesses thrive, we were dismayed to learn that the Republican tax framework would repeal most itemized deductions, tacitly including the state and local tax provision. We strongly urge you to reject this misguided proposal that would harm our state. The SALT deduction has been a bedrock component of our federal tax system for more than a century, and it remains critically important to Minnesota today. Of the 948,000 Minnesota households that itemized their federal tax deductions in 2015, 99.8 percent claimed a deduction for state and local taxes, or 35 percent of Minnesota’s filing households. The average SALT benefit in our state was $12,954, and these benefits are shared among constituents at all income levels. In 2015, 87 percent of Minnesota taxpayers who utilized the SALT deduction had household incomes below $200,000. Since the Revenue Act of 1913, federal law has acknowledged that the taxes citizens pay to state and local government are not disposable income and should not be taxed as such. The SALT deduction also recognizes that the state and local taxes Minnesotans pay are supporting a healthy and competitive state, strong communities, and excellent schools. Minnesota’s careful stewardship of all tax dollars — federal, state, and local — has helped our state deliver impressive results from our public investments in education, health, infrastructure, social services, and public safety. Earlier this year, Minnesota ranked third in the nation when U.S. News and World Report compiled a list of the best states in the country based on a long list of criteria, including health care, education, crime, infrastructure, opportunity, the economy, and government. We rank third in the nation in the share of adults with at least a two-year degree; our state GDP growth is sixth in the nation; unemployment has been below 4 percent for most of the past two years; and our state is home to 17 Fortune 500 companies. The innovation and economic momentum that we generate flows across our state’s borders and aids job creation and economic growth in the rest of the country. Eliminating the SALT deduction would undercut the public investments that have helped Minnesota prosper. Disincentivizing those public investments would hurt both our state and the nation at large. Beyond the potential economic damage, repealing the SALT deduction for individual taxpayers is grossly unfair. Companies can deduct their state and local taxes as a cost of doing business. U.S.-based multinationals receive the Foreign Tax Credit, allowing them to subtract the taxes they pay to other nations from their U.S. tax bills. Nothing in the recent Republican outline suggests that these tax benefits are threatened. Enacting tax hikes on our middle class constituents is the wrong way to approach reform. Eroding our ability to continue the public investments that are helping our state thrive is a backwards approach. And asking our hard-working constituents to consent to double-taxation when large companies are excused from the same obligation is unfair. We all agree that the current tax code is manifestly in need of reform, and we share many of your goals for the tax system. Our country and our state would benefit from a simpler, fairer tax code that promotes job creation and economic growth, but repealing the State and Local Tax Deduction is the wrong approach to achieve these goals. We urge you to abandon this element of the Republican framework. Thank you for considering our views on this important issue. Sincerely,
10.16.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus and Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, spoke this afternoon at the 74th National Congress of American Indians Convention and Marketplace. Congresswoman McCollum's remarks are below: Gwen, thank you for welcoming all of us to your district! Congresswoman Gwen Moore is one of Indian Country’s strongest allies in Congress. I’m delighted to stand with Gwen here today, and proud to stand with her every day as we fight to uphold tribal sovereignty and meet our federal treaty responsibilities. As always, it is an honor and a real pleasure to gather with you all—the tribal leaders, Native youth, and advocates of the National Congress of American Indians. I’m incredibly grateful for the partnership, education, and friendship that I’ve been blessed to share with many of you. NCAI is a tremendous resource for every Member of Congress who is committed to working with tribal nations. That success wouldn’t be possible without the dedication of President Cladoosby, Jackie Pata and her wonderful staff, and generations of tribal leaders — those here today, those who came before us, and those gaining the experience to lead in the future. As the co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, I’m committed to working with NCAI to elevate the voices of tribal leaders in the halls of Congress. And, as the Ranking Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service, I am proud of our nonpartisan approach on tribal issues. I work hand-in-hand with my Republican Chairman – Ken Calvert of California – to meet the federal trust and treaty obligations to your nations. I have to admit: it’s been really tough so far this year. House Republican leadership decided to cut our Interior-Environment Subcommittee by $824 million this year. But even facing that drastic top level cut, Chairman Calvert and I came together to increase funding for the BIA and IHS by more than $100 million. Unfortunately, the Trump administration did not share our bipartisan commitment to Indian Country in their budget priorities. The President’s budget would have cut IHS by $300 million. It proposed cutting the BIA by more than $370 million, including completely eliminating funds for replacement school construction within the Bureau of Indian Education. President Trump proposed cuts to Indian Housing, Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian Education, and critical programs like the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative that tribes here in Wisconsin rely on to protect their treaty rights. But the Republicans and Democrats who know Indian Country best stood together to defend the funding that Indian Country needs. We rejected the Trump budget cuts. That success is largely thanks to the united advocacy from tribal leaders and the relationships that you have built with Members of Congress over many years. We will still have to work out a final conference agreement with the Senate, but I am optimistic that we can keep that bipartisan support for Indian Country intact. However, even if Congress stands together against cuts to Indian Country, we all know that much work remains. We need to take on the health disparities facing Native Americans. That begins with addressing the problems with funding, access, and quality of care within the Indian Health Service. I’m currently working with a dozen bipartisan Members of the House on an IHS Taskforce on precisely those issues. I’m also fighting against the GOP push to repeal the Affordable Care Act and slash Medicaid funding, which would be devastating for tribal health centers and hospitals. And as this entire nation, including your tribal nations, faces the overwhelming and heartbreaking crisis of opioid addiction, I will work with you to ensure that tribal communities have access to the help you need. We must also do better—much, much better— to secure the safety and justice our tribal nations deserve. Tribal law enforcement and tribal courts need more resources, and greater self-determination in how to put those resources to use in your communities. This year, I worked with my co-chair of the Native American Caucus, Tom Cole, to pass an amendment that creates a flexible 7 percent set-aside for tribal justice systems from grant programs at the Department of Justice. Unfortunately, our other bipartisan proposal to secure access for tribal nations to the Crime Victims Fund was stripped out of the bill on the House floor by Republican House leadership. Your outreach now is critical to press Speaker Paul Ryan to do the right thing, and to restore tribal access to the Crime Victims Fund in a final omnibus spending bill. Ultimately, in all the issues Congress considers, I am proud to work with NCAI to uphold our trust and treaty obligations, and to fight for tribal sovereignty in all its forms. Sovereignty means tribal governments being treated the same as state and local governments under the National Labor Relations Act. Sovereignty means getting tribal input on water quality standards and resource management decisions that impact your hunting and fishing rights. Sovereignty means legitimate consultation by the federal government on any proposal impacting your land or nation. And sovereignty means ensuring that decisions about the welfare of Indian children involve tribal courts. Tribal sovereignty is something that all Members of Congress, and every Administration, must understand and respect! Unfortunately, the Trump Administration has not shown an understanding of the nation-to-nation relationship in their first budget to Congress, or in administration actions like pushing forward the Dakota Access pipeline or proposing to shrink the Bears Ears National Monument. So, the next few years are not going to be easy. We need to stand together, we need to work together, and we need NCAI and tribal leaders keeping the pressure on Congress and, especially, on this White House. Thank you for the partnership, the friendship, and the leadership you have shown me over the years. I am honored to work to with each of you and I look forward to making your nations stronger and more successful. I am also committed to working with you for greater justice, equality, and opportunity for our nation – the United States of America. Miigwech.
10.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the National Park Service’s report on sexual harassment within the agency: “I am deeply disturbed by this report, which details an unacceptable culture of sexual harassment and hostile work environments at the National Park Service. The incidents described in the report, and the lack of action to address them, should concern all of us. “Every employee has the right to a safe workplace that is free from harassment. The Department of the Interior and the National Park Service must take steps to finally end this widespread pattern of workplace harassment. As they address this issue, I will work with my colleagues in Congress to hold the Department accountable and ensure that no employee ever faces the kind of mistreatment and abuse outlined in this report.” In the fiscal year 2017 Interior-Environment appropriations bill, Congresswoman McCollum secured language that instructed the Department of the Interior to report to Congress on corrective steps being taken to address harassment and implement strong and consistent anti-harassment policies.
10.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump “decertified” the Iran nuclear deal today: “President Donald Trump’s decertification of the Iran nuclear deal is a reckless decision that imperils global security and isolates the United States from our allies and partners in the world. “Contrary to the outright falsehoods in President Trump’s remarks, the facts are simple: the Iran deal is working, preventing the Iranians from developing nuclear weapons, and forcing them to submit to comprehensive inspections. There is simply no rationale for either decertifying the deal or threatening to terminate the deal entirely. “Congress must stand up to President Trump and his policies that endanger global security. In the weeks ahead, I will work with my colleagues to defend the Iran nuclear deal, uphold American credibility, and maintain global peace and security.”
10.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after news reports that President Donald Trump will unilaterally end the Affordable Care Act’s Cost-Sharing Reduction payments, causing premiums for health insurance to spike: “With Republicans’ destructive health care legislation stalled in Congress, President Trump has apparently decided on a back door sabotage that will dramatically increase costs for families in Minnesota and across America. “We shouldn’t mince words: ending cost-sharing reduction payments is a spiteful, pointless act by Republicans intent on wreaking havoc and causing pain for as many Americans as possible. The President’s tweets on this issue, suggesting he made this decision solely for political reasons, underscore the meanness of his policies. “Congress must swiftly take legislative action to ease the damage caused by President Trump’s recklessness. And the American people must hold this President and this Republican Congress accountable for their deliberate attempts to make health care unaffordable for Minnesotans and Americans.”
10.12.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, Ways and Means Committee Ranking Member Richard Neal, and other House Democrats at a press conference highlighting the disastrous effects of the Ryan-McConnell plan to end the state and local tax deduction, raising taxes on middle class families in Minnesota and across America. Below are Congresswoman McCollum’s remarks: Good afternoon. I’m Betty McCollum and I represent Minnesota’s Fourth District in the Twin Cities metro area. I’m here today because the State and Local Tax Deduction is critically important to Minnesota’s families, communities, and economy. The Republican plan to end the state and local tax deduction would raise taxes on middle class families in my home state of Minnesota and throughout the Midwest, America’s heartland. The SALT deduction is about basic fairness: Why in the world do Republicans want taxpayers to pay taxes twice on the same dollar they earned? Close to a million Minnesota households itemize their federal tax deductions, and nearly all of them claim the State and Local Tax Deduction. The vast majority of these households are middle class. The SALT deduction is important in districts that are represented by both Democrats and Republicans. Let me give you an example: In Minnesota’s Third District, represented by my Republican colleague Erik Paulsen — who sits on the Ways & Means Committee — 40 percent of all households claim the SALT deduction with an average value of more than $15,000. I’m going to ask Erik to join me in saving the SALT deduction that benefits so many of our constituents. Minnesota has invested in our future by supporting good schools, a strong health care system, new infrastructure, and robust public safety — and we have delivered impressive results. Minnesota is home to 17 Fortune 500 companies, our GDP growth is currently sixth in the nation, and unemployment has been below 4 percent for most of the past two years. The Republican plan to end the SALT deduction makes it harder to sustain important investments and punishes Minnesota taxpayers for our state’s success. Tax policy should make our country more competitive. But Republicans’ proposal will lead to cuts in education, health, and infrastructure investments. Finally, in addition to being short-sighted, repealing SALT for families is patently unfair when the Republicans plan to keep it for companies. My Republican colleagues in Minnesota and across the country need to stand up to their party leaders. We must save the SALT deduction and say NO to this $1.3 trillion tax hike on middle class families.
10.12.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor in support of H.R. 2266, the Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act: I rise in support of this funding package. This bill is a down payment on the recovery from recent fires and hurricanes. I am pleased that it contains $576.5 million to fully repay the funds that the U.S. Forest Service borrowed in the last fiscal year to pay for wildfire suppression. We have all seen the devastation and the tragic loss of life from large fires burning across our country. Fiscal Year 2017 was the most expensive year on record for wildfire suppression, costing $2.4 billion. As the duration and severity of wildfires grows, costs will continue to rise. Unfortunately, we have once again missed an opportunity to fix the way the federal government funds wildfire suppression. Let me be clear: The next supplemental must include a legislative fix for wildfire spending. And it must adequately support the Department of the Interior and its vital efforts to help our country rebuild from the recent fires and hurricanes. I yield back.
10.05.2017	U.S. Representatives Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Rick Nolan, Collin Peterson, and Tim Walz wrote today to Acting Health and Human Services Secretary Don Wright and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator Seema Verma, urging them to rescind their proposed cuts to MinnesotaCare. Minnesota was recently informed that the State's request for a 1332 waiver was approved, but the approval appears to be coupled with a devastating $369 million cut in funding for MinnesotaCare, Minnesota’s Basic Health Plan (BHP). This cut would have a substantial impact on the state's ability to provide health coverage for more than 100,000 Minnesotans and a serious adverse impact on Minnesota’s state budget. “Minnesota wants to move forward on its reinsurance proposal so families can take advantage of an estimated 20 percent reduction in individual market premiums that they expect as a result of this initiative. We believe a cut to MinnesotaCare to make that happen is unacceptable and unnecessary,” the lawmakers wrote. “We urge CMS to rescind the proposed cuts to MinnesotaCare, our Basic Health Plan.” A PDF copy of the letter is available here. The full text of is below: Dear Acting Secretary Wright and Administrator Verma: We write to thank you for approving Minnesota's 1332 waiver and express our strong opposition to the proposed cuts to the Minnesota Basic Health Plan. Minnesota's individual insurance market has seen escalating health care premiums in recent years, with average rate increases of 60 percent last year. This escalation is making health insurance increasingly expensive for the five percent of Minnesotans that access health insurance on the individual market. As you know, Minnesota was recently informed that the State's request for a 1332 waiver was approved. Unfortunately, this approval appears to be coupled with a devastating $369 million cut in funding for our Basic Health Plan (BHP). While Minnesotans would have coverage in the short-term, this cut would have a substantial impact on the state's ability to provide health coverage for more than 100,000 Minnesotans, as well as our state's budget going forward. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) reasoning for such a cut is confounding. Governor Dayton stated in a letter dated September 19, 2017 that CMS staff guided the State through the drafting of the reinsurance legislation and the 1332 waiver application so that the expedited process for creating the reinsurance program would maximize federal funding for Minnesotans. We have trouble understanding why CMS would have led the state in this way, only to turnaround and insist upon an enormous cut to a critical public health insurance program that serves vulnerable families. Furthermore, in an October 3, 2017 letter, Governor Dayton provides a clear legal analysis demonstrating that there is nothing in the text of the Affordable Care Act or associated regulations that prohibits Minnesota from receiving full BHP funding, and that the Secretary has broad authority to determine the amount of the state's BHP funding. Minnesota wants to move forward on its reinsurance proposal so families can take advantage of an estimated 20 percent reduction in individual market premiums that they expect as a result of this initiative. We believe a cut to MinnesotaCare to make that happen is unacceptable and unnecessary. We urge CMS to rescind the proposed cuts to MinnesotaCare, our Basic Health Plan. Sincerely,
10.03.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the MINER Act, legislation introduced by Congressman Tom Emmer that paves the way for dangerous mining adjacent to Minnesota’s Boundary Waters: “Congressman Emmer’s bill is an all-out attack on our nation’s most visited wilderness — the Boundary Waters Canoe Area. It allows a South American mining conglomerate to conduct dangerous sulfide-ore mining next to this pristine national treasure. It terminates a careful, science-based review and public input process assessing the risks of mining in this area. And it undercuts basic environmental and public lands laws, including the century-old Antiquities Act. “Claims that this bill will protect the BWCA are false. Make no mistake: Congressman Emmer’s bill paves the way for toxic pollutants to flow throughout the Rainy River watershed and poison the Boundary Waters forever.”
10.02.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) posted the following on Facebook after a shooting in Las Vegas, Nev. left at least 58 dead and hundreds wounded: This morning, we woke up to yet another mass shooting, this one the deadliest in modern American history. Today, hundreds of families are grieving for those killed and praying for the wounded to recovery. We join them in prayer. But there is another tragedy in America today, one that will impact us tomorrow, next week, and that will never stop until action is taken: that tragedy is that we live in a country where the President and Congress will mourn those killed in mass shootings but do nothing to protect the American people from more of them in the future. President Trump and the Republican Congress protect gun manufacturers and the gun lobby, but deny everyday American moms, dads, kids, and grandparents the right to live without fear of gun violence. I am the co-sponsor of numerous bills to responsibly regulate firearms. None of them will pass this Republican Congress. The terrifying reality in America today is that there is a much higher likelihood that any one of us will be killed by gun violence than there is of Congress passing a single gun violence prevention bill. In fact, this Republican Congress is actively trying to weaken the gun safety laws we already have. With hundreds of millions of firearms and limitless ammunition, the next mass shooting could happen anywhere, anytime, to anyone of us. I am ready to act. I am ready to vote to impose the toughest laws possible to protect the American people from this preventable madness. But this Republican Congress will instead do nothing and wait for the next tragedy to happen.
09.29.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today wrote to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke requesting specific details of his noncommercial flights at taxpayer expense. Yesterday, The Washington Post reported that Secretary Zinke “chartered a flight from Las Vegas to near his home in Montana this summer aboard a plane owned by oil-and-gas executives” that cost taxpayers $12,375. In addition, Secretary Zinke apparently chartered private flights at taxpayer expense during a visit to the United States Virgin Islands in March. Secretary Zinke joins other senior Trump administration officials, including Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, and Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt who have apparently abused taxpayer dollars with excessively expensive private travel. “Congress and the American people deserve an explanation for this extravagant use of taxpayer funds. Combined with similar reports of excessively expensive private travel by numerous senior Trump administration officials, there seems to be a disturbing pattern of limitless spending on noncommercial flights without reasonable justification,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. “Additionally, your decision to fly on an aircraft owned by an oil and gas corporation, in a sector over which the Department of the Interior has direct leasing and regulatory authority, creates the appearance of a serious conflict of interest.” A PDF version of the letter is available here. The full letter is below: Dear Secretary Zinke: In light of recent reports regarding your use of chartered private flights at taxpayer expense, I write to request additional information about the use of noncommercial flights by you and other officials in the Department of the Interior. According to an article in The Washington Post, published September 28, you “took a four-hour flight from Las Vegas to Kalispell, Mont., aboard a private plane owned by the executives of a Wyoming oil-and-gas exploration firm” at a cost to taxpayers of $12,375. The article also details private flights you took in the United States Virgin Islands in March. Congress and the American people deserve an explanation for this extravagant use of taxpayer funds. Combined with similar reports of excessively expensive private travel by numerous senior Trump administration officials, there seems to be a disturbing pattern of limitless spending on noncommercial flights without reasonable justification. Additionally, your decision to fly on an aircraft owned by the executives of an oil and gas corporation, in a sector over which the Department of the Interior has direct leasing and regulatory authority, creates the appearance of a serious conflict of interest. As Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, it is my responsibility to ensure that taxpayer funds are spent appropriately and responsibly as intended by Congress. With the Trump administration proposing deep budget cuts to the Department of the Interior, Congress deserves to know how you can justify this apparent abuse of taxpayer funds. Therefore, I am requesting that you provide me with the following information no later than October 11, 2017: The dates, itineraries, and official purposes of all noncommercial flights you and other senior Interior officials have taken since you became Secretary of the Interior The cost of each of the noncommercial flights The official justification for the use of each noncommercial flight, instead of using commercial air travel The names of the ethics official(s) who approved the use of each noncommercial flight, along with all written documentation of those approvals The ownership entities of the aircraft for each noncommercial flight, including whether the ownership entity of the aircraft has leases, business or pending leases or business with the Department of the Interior Thank you for your prompt attention to this important matter. Sincerely, Betty McCollum Member of Congress
09.27.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on House and Senate Republicans’ tax “framework”: “The Republican tax framework is a multi-trillion dollar giveaway to billionaires and big corporations at the expense of working Minnesotans and Americans. It tilts the playing field to the richest few and eliminates the estate tax to benefit people like President Trump. It explodes the deficit, undermines Social Security and Medicare, and leaves working families footing the bill. In short, the Republican framework is fundamentally unfair to the American people. “In 2001 and 2003, I opposed the Bush tax cuts that turned our budget surplus to a deficit, added trillions to the national debt, and failed to create jobs. Today’s Republican framework is a warmed-over version of those bad ideas. I oppose it and any other plan that gives tax breaks to billionaires on the backs of working families.”
09.19.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump’s address to the United Nations, in which he threatened to “totally destroy” North Korea: “President Donald Trump’s speech at the United Nations today betrayed America’s values and abandoned our nation’s legacy of global leadership. The world witnessed a provocative, unstable demagogue threaten to start a conflict that would risk nuclear war and imperil millions of lives. “President Trump’s dangerous rhetoric, coming from a man with the nuclear codes, is a global threat that puts every American at risk. I strongly condemn both his speech and the foundation of ignorance in which it was rooted.”
09.18.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the Washington Post obtained Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke’s secret report recommending President Donald Trump shrink or modify 10 National Monuments: “This secret report lays bare the Trump administration’s real agenda: opening up our public lands to private exploitation through coal mining, commercial logging, and oil drilling. “Our National Monuments protect America’s natural history and preserve our cultural heritage, including the sacred sites of our Native American brothers and sisters. It is a travesty that the Trump administration wants to abuse these treasured places for private profit.” “President Trump should reject Secretary Zinke’s misguided recommendations, which go far beyond the authority granted by Congress in the Antiquities Act. If he does not, I strongly support the efforts already underway to challenge the Trump administration in court and ensure that America’s public lands are protected for today and for tomorrow.”
09.12.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today wrote to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt condemning the EPA’s personal attacks on an Associated Press journalist. “While disagreements between journalists and public affairs professionals are routine, the EPA’s September 3, 2017 public statement personally attacking the Associated Press’ Michael Biesecker represented an inappropriate use of taxpayer resources to castigate our free press for simply doing its job,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. On September 3, after the Associated Press reported on flooding at Superfund sites in the Houston area in the wake of Hurricane Harvey, the EPA’s Office of Public Affairs released a public statement entitled “EPA Response To The AP's Misleading Story” that repeatedly castigated the AP’s Michael Biesecker in harsh, personal terms. The EPA statement also appeared to obscure several key facts about the EPA’s response to Hurricane Harvey. “It should go without saying that obscuring facts to mislead the public and unleashing ad hominem attacks on journalists is unacceptable conduct on the part of a federal agency,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. “In the future, I hope you and your colleagues will act in a more professional manner and refrain from such unacceptable personal attacks.” A PDF copy of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter is available here. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter is below: Dear Administrator Pruitt: I write to express serious concerns about a recent public response issued by the Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Public Affairs that personally attacked a journalist covering your agency. While disagreements between journalists and public affairs professionals are routine, the EPA’s September 3, 2017 public statement personally attacking the Associated Press’ Michael Biesecker represented an inappropriate use of taxpayer resources to castigate our free press for simply doing its job. Moreover, I am concerned that the EPA’s response to the Associated Press’ September 2, 2017 story muddled key information, presented an incomplete picture, and created a misleading impression for the American people. Specifically: The EPA’s response stated that “through aerial imaging, EPA has already conducted initial assessments at 41 Superfund sites – 28 of those sites show no damage, and 13 have experienced flooding.” However, the response did not mention that the EPA had not physically visited all of the Superfund sites in the Houston area because they were not accessible by response personnel. The EPA’s response stated “EPA and state agencies worked with responsible parties to secure Superfund sites before the hurricane hit.” However, the response made no mention of flooding at the sites that had ostensibly been secured by the EPA. The EPA’s response accused Mr. Biesecker by name of “reporting from the comfort of Washington.” However, the response did not mention that Mr. Biesecker’s co-author was able to use a boat to document the condition of one flooded Houston-area Superfund site and accessed others with a vehicle or on foot. It should go without saying that obscuring facts to mislead the public and unleashing ad hominem attacks on journalists is unacceptable conduct on the part of a federal agency. In the future, I hope you and your colleagues will act in a more professional manner and refrain from such unacceptable personal attacks. Sincerely, /s/
09.07.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today opposed a Republican amendment package that included an amendment to allow mining in the Superior National Forest adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. The amendment, offered by Congressman Tom Emmer, prevents the United States Forest Service from protecting federal land in the Superior National Forest adjacent to the BWCA and Voyageurs National Park from dangerous sulfide-ore copper mining. It was packaged with other amendments that mostly slash funding for the Environmental Protection Agency and otherwise restrict its activities. “All of the amendments in this package are harmful, but the Boundary Waters amendment affects Minnesota most directly and negatively,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “It mandates that dangerous copper-sulfide ore mining will be allowed in the watershed, regardless of the conclusions of the Forest Service’s environmental study. It also deliberately ignores hundreds of thousands of public comments from Minnesotans and Americans.” The House passed the amendment package by voice vote, but Congresswoman McCollum vowed to work to remove partisan riders like the Emmer amendment as the legislation moves forward in Congress. “Minnesotans and all Americans can rely on me to stand with them and work for the removal of harmful riders throughout this bill,” Congresswoman McCollum said. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s floor remarks opposing the amendment package and the Emmer amendment is available here.
09.06.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, spoke on the House Floor today in strong opposition to House Republicans’ eight-bill appropriations package and its devastating $824 million cut to the programs funded in the Interior-Environment bill. “The devastating cut to the Interior-Environment allocation shortchanges the protection of our nation’s natural and cultural resources and has real consequences for American families and communities,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Slashing the Environmental Protection Agency by $534 million will severely impact the agency’s ability to protect human health and safety and ensure clean air and clean water for all Americans.” House Republicans’ eight-bill appropriations package cuts funding for the Interior-Environment programs by $824 million and forces the EPA to shoulder 65 percent of that cut. The bill’s attack on the EPA comes on top of more than $2.2 billion in cuts to the EPA since fiscal year 2010. The bill also cuts programs critical to appropriately managing public lands and reduces funding necessary for endangered species listing protection. In addition, the bill includes a number of partisan riders in this bill that pander to special interests at the expense of the public good. Riders in the bill jeopardize protection and recovery for vulnerable species, restrict ocean protection efforts, undermine clean water and clean air safeguards, and even prevent the development of renewable energy. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s floor remarks opposing the appropriations package is available here.
09.05.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the Trump administration is ending Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals: “President Trump’s elimination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program is a cruel betrayal of 800,000 young DREAMers who love this country and call America home. Deporting college students, first responders, and service members who came to America as children is bigoted, callous, and does nothing to make America stronger. “House Republican leadership must immediately bring legislation to the House Floor to preserve DACA and protect DREAMers from deportation. House Democrats are united and we will fight to protect DREAMers and the best of American values they represent.”
09.05.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today wrote to bipartisan House leaders urging the inclusion of $300 million for urgent wildfire suppression activities in the emergency supplemental appropriations bill for Hurricane Harvey relief. “I write to respectfully request that you swiftly advance an emergency supplemental appropriations bill that includes both the initial response to Hurricane Harvey and funding for wildland fire suppression across the United States,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. “I look forward to working with you, in a bipartisan fashion, to meet the urgent needs of Americans hit by Hurricane Harvey and victimized by the wildfires across the West.” As Texas has suffered from the devastation of Hurricane Harvey, the American West has battled severe wildfires. Late last month, Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue formally notified Congress that the United States Forest Service will not have sufficient wildland fire suppression funds for the remainder of the current fiscal year. Without an emergency supplemental appropriation, the Forest Service will be forced to make damaging transfers from its wildfire treatment and protection activities, limiting its ability to conduct preparedness activities that reduce the severity of wildfires. In addition, Congresswoman McCollum urged full funding for the Environmental Protection Agency, both for its immediate response to Hurricane Harvey and for its everyday work. Among the many federal activities responding to Hurricane Harvey, the Environmental Protection Agency will be one of the primary federal agencies protecting human health, monitoring air and water, and managing recovery and cleanup. Congress must meet its responsibilities to adequately fund the EPA. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter is below. A PDF copy is available here. Dear Speaker Ryan, Leader Pelosi, Chairman Frelinghuysen, and Ranking Member Lowey: I write to respectfully request that you swiftly advance an emergency supplemental appropriations bill that includes both the initial response to Hurricane Harvey and funding for wildland fire suppression across the United States. While Texas has suffered from the devastation of Hurricane Harvey, the American West has battled severe wildfires. Currently, large fires are burning across California, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. Los Angeles is facing the largest wildfire in the city’s history. The United States Forest Service (USFS) does not have adequate funding to combat these disasters. In this crisis situation, an emergency supplemental appropriation is both appropriate and warranted. On August 29, 2017, Secretary Sonny Perdue notified the House Committee on Appropriations that the United States Department of Agriculture’s Forest Service (USFS) is projecting that it will not have sufficient wildland fire suppression funds for the remainder of fiscal year 2017. In light of this dire situation, I respectfully request that the emergency appropriations for Harvey relief include at least $300 million of funding with an emergency designation for wildfire suppression activities in fiscal year 2017. Such an appropriation is the only way to provide the necessary expenses for both wildfire suppression and rehabilitation activities. Without such an emergency supplemental appropriation, the USFS will be forced to make damaging transfers from its wildfire treatment and protection activities. Historically, such transfers have negatively impacted the Service’s ability to meet its mission and conduct preparedness activities to reduce the severity of wildfires. For the citizens of California and other Western states, the severity of these wildland fires has been profound. The devastation caused by both disasters will be enormous – and the demands on the federal recovery and rebuilding efforts will be great. As we address the impacts of the wildfires and the Hurricane Harvey, we cannot ignore the critical role that strong environmental protection laws and agencies, like the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), play in keeping Americans safe in the aftermath of natural disasters and from everyday environmental burdens. Hurricane Harvey will leave a legacy of significant environmental damage. Flood waters may contain high levels of raw sewage and harmful substances, such as hazardous waste, toxic chemicals, and petroleum. Once the floodwaters recede, soil sediment may be polluted. The EPA will be one of the primary federal agencies protecting human health, monitoring air and water, and managing recovery and cleanup. It is because of this significant responsibility that we must acknowledge the deep cuts the EPA has already endured over the past seven years. Since fiscal year 2010, the EPA has been cut by $2.2 billion. Today, the Agency has 2,000 fewer staff than it did seven years ago. There are consequences to such cuts – and the impact will be felt by the millions of Americans affected by Hurricane Harvey. Congress must take immediate action to provide disaster relief and to secure clean air and clean water for Texans. At the same time, we must meet our responsibilities to adequately fund the EPA, so that it has the capacity to carry out its mission and protect the American people. Thank you for your consideration of this request. From my conversations with constituents in Minnesota this week, I understand – as you do – that the American people are demanding strong and expeditious action to address the devastation of Hurricane Harvey and other natural disasters. I look forward to working with you, in a bipartisan fashion, to meet the urgent needs of Americans hit by Hurricane Harvey and victimized by the wildfires across the West. Sincerely, /s/
08.25.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today formally requested federal authorities to pursue criminal charges against the owners and responsible individuals at Plating, Inc., which abandoned toxic and dangerous chemicals in a residential neighborhood in St. Paul, necessitating a $1.6 million federal cleanup. “The decision by the owner of Plating, Inc. to abandon 82 open vats and 76 drums of toxic chemicals is an environmental crime that must be prosecuted,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote in a letter to Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Scott Pruitt. “There is no better example of the need for strict, effective, and uncompromising environmental enforcement by the EPA and the Department of Justice than pursuing federal criminal charges against the owner of Plating, Inc.” Earlier this month, the EPA began a hazardous waste cleanup at the Plating Inc. site, an abandoned zinc and chromate plating facility, located at 888 N. Prior Ave. in St. Paul. Information from the EPA, including an action memorandum detailing the numerous violations and hazards at the site, is available here. In addition to undertaking cleanup actions, the EPA has the responsibility under the Resource Conservation Recovery Act (RCRA) and other federal laws to regulate and enforce safeguards on the transportation, storage, use, and disposal of hazardous chemicals and waste. Violations of the RCRA are investigated by the EPA and criminal charges are prosecuted by the U.S. Attorney’s Office. If convicted, violators can face jail time and hefty fines. With today’s letter, Congresswoman McCollum formally requested that the EPA work with the U.S. Attorney’s office to conduct a full investigation and bring criminal charges against the responsible parties. A PDF copy of Congresswoman McCollum's letter can be found here.
08.24.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke recommended President Donald Trump strip protections from National Monuments across the country: “From the sacred sites of Utah’s Bears Ears to the majestic splendor of Maine’s Katahdin Woods, National Monuments safeguard our country’s natural and cultural treasures. The Trump administration’s proposal to strip protections from these special places and open them up to exploitation by private interests is an attack on our public lands and national heritage. “Shrinking National Monuments and allowing polluters or other private interests to operate on them breaks a commitment to the American people. Contrary to what the Trump administration has claimed, stripping protections for National Monuments will harm local communities and economies. Worse still, it will open the door to the destruction of these irreplaceable natural resources. “I urge President Trump to reject Secretary Zinke’s recommendations, but I fully expect that the president will accept them as another piece of his polluters’ first agenda. With that in mind, I strongly support the conservation groups and local stakeholders who have already announced plans to take the Trump administration to court and protect these natural and cultural treasures.”
08.23.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today co-sponsored a resolution to censure President Donald Trump for excusing the violent conduct of white supremacists, neo-Nazis, and the Ku Klux Klan at the “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Va. earlier this month. “President Trump’s comments about Charlottesville once again revealed his willingness to embrace the darkest elements of our society. The fact that he has continued to repeat his vile comments is even worse,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Congress must stand up for all Americans by calling President Trump to account and censuring him for his embrace of white supremacists, neo-Nazis, and the Ku Klux Klan.” At a public event in Phoenix, Ariz. last night, President Trump doubled down on his response to the Charlottesville tragedy by mischaracterizing his previous comments equating racist agitators with peaceful counter protesters, blaming the media for accurately reporting his initial comments, and aligning himself with the white supremacists defending Confederate statues. The censure resolution, introduced by Congressman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), Congresswoman Bonnie Watson Coleman (D-N.J.), and Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.), condemns President Trump “for his inadequate response to the violence in Charlottesville, Virginia on August 12, 2017, his failure to immediately and specifically name and condemn the white supremacist groups responsible for actions of domestic terrorism, for re-asserting that ‘both sides’ were to blame and excusing the violent behavior of participants in the ‘Unite the Right’ rally.”
08.21.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), a senior member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement ahead of President Donald Trump's address to the nation about Afghanistan: “From the time he assumed office, President Trump has failed to conduct himself with the moral authority, competence, or dignity that is demanded of our Commander-in-Chief. "Now President Trump is announcing a band-aid proposal that will send thousands of U.S. troops into a deteriorating Afghan security environment. This is not a military solution or a path to an exit strategy, but a recipe for an endless quagmire. “The tragic mess in Afghanistan demands an Afghan solution and muscular U.S. diplomacy, not more American troops. The Afghan government must take responsibility for their nation’s security and governance."
08.16.2017	In comments on her Facebook page, Congresswoman Betty McCollum strongly condemnded President Donald Trump's defense of the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazis, and white nationalists who protested in Charlottesville, Va. on August 11 and 12: "President Donald Trump's latest defense of the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazis, and white nationalists is disgusting. I completely reject these vile comments — and I know that all Minnesotans and Americans of good will do the same. "To my Republican colleagues: it's time for you to join us and finally condemn President Trump's embrace of the KKK, neo-nazis, and white nationalists." During the violence caused by the Ku Klux Klan, neo-Nazis, and white nationalists, Congreswoman McCollum forcefully condemned their activities: "The racist violence in Charlottesville is reprehensible and goes against the values we share as Americans. "Bigotry has no place in our country — and I join tens of millions of Americans condemning these white supremacist protests."
08.10.2017	The office of Congresswoman Betty McCollum will host a neighborhood meeting on Tuesday, August 15 to share important information about the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s cleanup of hazardous waste at 888 North Prior Avenue in St. Paul. The meeting will be held from 6:00 to 7:00 p.m. at the Newell Park Building, located at 900 Fairview Avenue North in St. Paul. Residents and business owners in the surrounding area are urged to attend this important discussion with Congresswoman McCollum’s staff and learn more about the work the EPA is undertaking to clean up the abandoned former site of Plating, Inc. Last week, the EPA announced it was beginning a $1.6 million cleanup of hazardous waste at the site. After a meeting with Congresswoman McCollum, the EPA has also added additional security at the site. WHO: Offices of Congresswoman Betty McCollum, St. Paul Council President Russ Stark, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, City of St. Paul, and Hamline Midway Coalition – District Council 11 WHAT: An important neighborhood meeting about the EPA’s cleanup of hazardous waste at 888 North Prior Avenue in St. Paul. WHEN: Tuesday, August 15th from 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. WHERE: Newell Park Building, 900 Fairview Avenue North, St. Paul For more information, residents should contact Congresswoman McCollum’s office at 651-224-9191. Additional Information Meeting Notice EPA Memorandum on Plating, Inc. Site
08.03.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency announced an emergency $1.6 million hazardous waste cleanup at the Plating, Inc. site in the Midway neighborhood of St. Paul: “The dangerous nature of the chemicals and hazardous materials at the Plating, Inc. site demands a coordinated environmental response to ensure public safety and health are protected. “As the cleanup process unfolds, my office will work closely with the Environmental Protection Agency, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, and the City of St. Paul to ensure that the residents and employees in the surrounding area are safe and receive the assistance they need. “At the same time, the individuals who walked away from this site and knowingly endangered the public must be held accountable to the fullest extent of the law. I urge state and federal prosecutors to pursue this case as what would appear to be a very serious environmental crime.”
08.03.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will host a “Listening Over Lemonade” town hall on Wednesday, August 9 from 2:30 to 3:30 p.m. at the East Side Freedom Library in St. Paul. “With the do-nothing Republican Congress out of session for the August recess, I want to hear from you directly about the issues that matter most to you and your family,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I hope Fourth District residents will join me for a meaningful dialogue at the East Side Freedom Library on August 9.” WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum WHAT: A “Listening Over Lemonade” town hall meeting WHERE: East Side Freedom Library, 1105 Greenbrier Street, St. Paul, MN 55106 WHEN: Wednesday, August 9 from 2:30 to 3:30 p.m. The community conversation is free and open to the public. No RSVP is required. Media wishing to attend with cameras should email mccollumpress@mail.house.gov to ensure space is available.
07.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the Weekly Democratic Address on July 27. In this week’s address, McCollum highlighted Democrats’ ‘A Better Deal: Better Jobs, Better Wages, Better Future,’ and condemned the inaction of the Republican-controlled Congress and White House. Video and audio of the Weekly Democratic Address can be downloaded here. Below is a full transcript of the address: “Hello, I’m Betty McCollum. In Congress, I represent the hardworking families of St. Paul, Minnesota and its surrounding communities. “Minnesota has beautiful summers and really cold winters. But no matter the weather, we get up every day and head to our jobs with the expectation of getting our work done. “That’s the exact opposite of what’s happening right now in Republican-controlled Washington. “This week I found myself agreeing with Senator John McCain when he delivered a blunt statement to his own party: ‘We are getting nothing done.’ “The American people expect Congress and the White House to do the people’s business “Instead, we have a do-nothing Congress and a President who offers inappropriate insults, rather than inspired ideas. “No matter where you live – a big city, the suburbs, a rural community, or a tribal nation – you know that our families, students, seniors, and small business owners are facing real challenges. “For too many people, wages are not growing fast enough to keep up with the cost of living. “Many businesses can’t find workers with the required skills. Too often workers can’t afford the education and training they need to secure better-paying jobs. “Drug companies are gouging us with skyrocketing prescription drug prices. “And, across the country, our economy is being held back by outdated infrastructure and a widening digital divide. “President Trump and Republicans have no solutions to address these problems. “In fact, the chaos Republicans are causing is denying families, businesses, and communities the certainty they need to invest in the future. “The American people deserve a better deal. “Like many of you, I come from a working class family. Growing up in South St. Paul, my family struggled. “As a young mom, I raised my kids, worked at Sears, and went back to college – all at the same time. “When my kids got sick, we took the bus to go see the doctor. “I know my story isn’t unusual. Americans work hard every day to support our families. All the while, we keep our eyes focused on a better future. “But there are times when life is not easy and we can all use a little help. “That’s why House and Senate Democrats came together this week to announce A Better Deal for America’s families. “Democrats in Congress are taking on the real challenges facing America and finding solutions that are responsible, compassionate, and effective. “The bickering, name calling, and game playing in Washington – it needs to end. It’s time to get to work! “Democrats believe every American can contribute to the success of our nation. That starts by ensuring everyone has the skills they need to get a good-paying job and climb the career ladder. “Democrats are determined to lower the cost of college, create more skilled apprenticeships, and make it easier for businesses to train workers. “Democrats are ready to invest in modern infrastructure, the roads, bridges, and transit system of tomorrow. And we want to expand high-speed internet to every corner of America. These investments will move our economy forward and support millions of jobs. “Democrats will put your families first by cracking down on unfair foreign trade, corporations that ship jobs overseas, and drug companies that gouge patients. “In the heartland, we expect our leaders to respond to the challenges we face rather than catering to billionaires and Wall Street. “We expect the federal government to be a partner that works with farmers and Main Street businesses, helps families afford career training and college, and makes sure veterans receive the benefits they have earned. “We know that protecting the air we breathe and the water we drink is good for all of us. “And we know that every American family needs affordable, quality healthcare. “Yet Republicans keep putting the 1 percent first. They are still pushing failed trickle-down policies and rolling back the protections that Americans count on. “This week, Members of Congress begin going home for the August recess. “This is a chance for citizens to hold their Senators and Representatives accountable by asking tough questions: What are you doing to help working families get ahead? What are you doing to protect my family’s healthcare? “You deserve answers. And you deserve a better deal than the one you are getting now. “That’s exactly what Democrats are working for: better jobs, better wages, and a better future for every American. “Thank you for listening.”
07.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the Senate rejected the so-called “skinny repeal” Trumpcare amendment: “Trumpcare would have caused untold pain for millions of Americans. The American people made their voices heard and House and Senate Democrats stood strong against this legislation, which is why it failed last night. “Beginning today, Congressional Republicans must work with Democrats for bipartisan health care solutions that build on the success of the Affordable Care Act. And the Trump administration must stop sabotaging this law and making it harder for families to get the care they need. “My Democratic colleagues and I are ready to get to work, find solutions, and ensure that every American has affordable, quality health care.”
07.27.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today submitted a letter to the House Natural Resources Committee strongly opposing a legislative proposal by Rep. Tom Emmer that would pave the way for dangerous mining next to Minnesota’s Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. “This proposed legislation would undercut existing environmental and public lands laws to allow a Chilean mining conglomerate to conduct dangerous sulfide-ore coppering mining adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. “As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to be good stewards of our nation’s natural resources. It would be a grave mistake to allow dangerous mining to take place on the edge of the Boundary Waters, one of the last wild places in our country.” The House Natural Resources Committee’s Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources today held a hearing on Emmer’s proposal, which entirely short-circuits a careful environmental review process, recklessly overturns the science-based decisions of the U.S. Forest Service, and attacks existing environmental and public lands laws—all for the benefit of a foreign conglomerate’s mining project. No action was taken on the proposal today, but the full Committee may act on the issue at any time. McCollum’s letter was accompanied by statements from leaders of some of the nation’s top environmental and public lands advocacy groups opposing Emmer’s bill. “The Emmer mining bill is yet another dangerous attack on our public lands. Anti-conservation interests are determined to let Congress sell or lease to private profiteers our nation’s natural treasures that are owned by all Americans,” Jamie Williams, President of The Wilderness Society, said. “In addition to opening the door to sulfide-ore mining in the priceless Boundary Waters watershed, the bill undermines bedrock conservation laws including the Antiquities Act, used by Republican and Democratic presidents alike to protect places of historic or natural significance. The Boundary Waters is one of the original places protected by the 1964 Wilderness Act, is America’s most visited wilderness area, and its waters must be protected from industrial mining.” "The waters of Lake Superior and the Boundary Waters are a precious national resource, depended on and enjoyed by millions of Americans. Sadly, members of Congress are clearly prioritizing the interests of multinational mining companies over the needs of both local communities and the American public. We strongly oppose these attacks on our public lands and waters, and call on Congressional leaders to do the same,” said Lena Moffitt, Director of Our Wild America Program at the Sierra Club. "This radical legislation would harm Minnesota's outdoor recreation economy by allowing a foreign mining company to build a risky mine that threatens the health of America's most visited wilderness area in the spectacular Boundary Waters,” Alex Taurel, Deputy Legislative Director of the League of Conservation Voters said. “We urge members of congress to oppose this harmful bill that greenlights a decision on the project based on politics and shamefully cuts out the voices of Minnesotans and people across the country that have engaged in a lengthy public process." The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s letter to the House Natural Resources Committee is available here. A PDF copy of the letter and attachments is available here.
07.27.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum sent the following letter to the Chairman Paul Gosar (R-Ariz.) and Ranking Member Alan Lowenthal (D-Calif.) opposing a discussion draft offered by Rep. Tom Emmer (R-Minn.) that would rewrite existing environmental and public lands protections to allow Chilean conglomerate Antofagasta to mine next to Minnesota's Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness: Dear Chairman Gosar and Ranking Member Lowenthal: I write to express my strong opposition to the discussion draft proposed by Representative Tom Emmer considered today, July 27, in the Energy and Mineral Resources Subcommittee of the House Natural Resources Committee. This proposed legislation would undercut existing environmental and public lands laws to allow a Chilean mining conglomerate to conduct dangerous sulfide-ore coppering mining adjacent to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. Located in northeastern Minnesota along the United States’ border with Canada, the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCAW) comprises approximately 1.1 million acres of unspoiled woodlands and more than 1,000 pristine lakes. It is home to iconic species such as loons, moose, and lynx, while the waters support thriving populations of walleye, bass, and trout. Congress recognized the value of this unique national treasure when it passed the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Act in 1978. This critical legislation established necessary protections for the BWCAW, prohibiting logging and mining and placing limits on the use of motorized vehicles to preserve the unspoiled nature of this special area. That law strengthened the federal role as caretaker of this area of unparalleled natural beauty, and in doing so built upon more than a century of actions by federal and state governments. In 1909, President Theodore Roosevelt created the Superior National Forest to protect the surrounding area. In 1964, President Lyndon Johnson signed the Wilderness Act into law, and set aside one million acres of the Boundary Waters as a wilderness area. In 1976, the state of Minnesota banned mining on state lands within the Boundary Waters. These polices have ensured that Minnesota’s Boundary Waters are one of the few remaining wild places in the United States. The BWCAW does not exist in isolation, however. It is a critical part of a vast, interconnected watershed that flows through the Superior National Forest and into Voyageurs National Park and Canada’s Quetico Provincial Park. While the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness Act of 1978 prohibited mining within the Boundary Waters itself, it did not address existing mineral leases located within the parts of the watershed in the Superior National Forest. In 2011, Chilean mining conglomerate Antofagasta announced plans for its Twin Metals sulfide-ore copper mine on federal land within this watershed. Antofagasta planned to pursue this mining under mineral leases issued in 1966, before the enactment of modern environmental legislation such as the National Environmental Policy Act and the Clean Water Act. However, those leases expired in 2014, requiring Antofagasta to apply for a renewal. Under the terms of the leases, the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) reviewed and denied those renewals in December 2016, based on a denial of consent from the United States Forest Service (USFS). The USFS determined that copper-sulfide ore mining on these leases would pose an unacceptable risk that “might cause serious and irreplaceable harm to this unique, iconic, and irreplaceable wilderness area”. Sulfide-ore mining is the most toxic industry in America, polluting waterways with acid drainage that contains arsenic, mercury and lead. Researchers that surveyed sulfide-ore copper mines in North America found that every mine had leeched pollution into surrounding water, with 92 percent failing to contain mine seepage and seriously affecting water quality. Underscoring the danger of sulfide-ore copper mining, the failure of the Mount Polley copper mine in British Columbia in August 2014 released a toxic slurry of 10 billion liters of wastewater and 5 billion liters of solid tailings. This immense pollution destroyed the surrounding landscape and permanently damaged an irreplaceable salmon spawning area. Simply put, sulfide-ore copper mining is not suited in the vast, interconnected watershed that contains the BWCA, which is exactly why the BLM and USFS determined that the sustainable management of the forests, lakes and streams in this area was best served by not renewing Antofagasta’s leases. This decision was also supported with action taken by the state government. In March 2016, Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton directed the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources “not to authorize or enter into any new state access agreements or lease agreements for mining operations” on state lands in close proximity to the BWCAW. Following the denial of the leases, the USFS submitted an application to the Secretary of the Interior to withdraw portions of the watershed that flows into the BWCAW from future mineral permits and leases, to remove the threat of sulfide-ore mining throughout this sensitive landscape. Today, the USFS and the BLM are conducting a thorough environmental analysis to determine whether the lands should be withdrawn from mineral leasing for a period of 20 years. In addition to relying on sound science, this review includes input from the public and key stakeholders. In just the past two weeks, more than 1,500 people have attended public meetings held by the USFS in Virginia, Minnesota and St. Paul, Minnesota. This environmental review and public input process is the best path forward, as Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue affirmed to me during a hearing of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee on May 27, 2017. In response to a question about the study, Secretary Perdue responded: “We are determined to proceed in that effort and let it run its course. No decision will be made prior to the conclusion of that.” Unfortunately, the discussion draft presented by Representative Emmer entirely short-circuits this careful and deliberate review process, recklessly overturns the science-based denial of consent decision from the USFS, and attacks existing environmental and public lands laws—all for the benefit of a foreign conglomerate’s mining project. I have several serious concerns about the far-reaching impacts of the discussion draft presented by Representative Emmer: It automatically grants Antofagasta two federal mineral leases on Superior National Forest lands, ignoring the strong federal and state opposition to sulfide-ore mining in this area. One federal mineral lease is immediately adjacent to the BWCAW and the second is within three miles of the BWCAW boundary. Peer-reviewed science documents that acid mine drainage from sulfide-ore copper mines on these leases would flow through the Boundary Waters, Voyageurs National Park, and Canada’s Quetico Provincial Park. Attached to this letter is a map that illustrates the extent of the pollution risk to this interconnected watershed. It voids the Forest Service Record of Decision in which the USFS denied to consent to the renewal of Antofagasta’s federal mineral leases based on the risk of harm to the Boundary Waters if the leases were granted. The Forest Service’s decision on the lease renewals was made by professional career USFS staff after a 3-year review, with extensive opportunity for public comment. The decision cites sound scientific evidence of harm to the BWCAW and considerable public opposition to the projects. The discussion draft ignores these facts the entirely and recklessly overturns the well-considered decision of the Forest Service. It undermines established laws governing mineral leasing in the Superior National Forest, bypasses the National Environmental Policy Act, and interferes with an ongoing Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). This proposal would amend the 1976 Federal Land Policy and Management Act and override the law that gives USFS the right to consent to mining in the Superior National Forest—making substantive changes to these carefully established laws. By retroactively reinstating the Twin Metals leases, the bill would also waive the requirement that federal mineral leases in the watershed go through a NEPA analysis. Furthermore, by reinstating these leases and requiring Congressional approval for the withdrawal of future leasing, this bill would shove aside the scientific analysis and public input process of the current EIS. All of this interference in the established legal process governing federal mineral leasing will primarily serve to benefit a foreign mining conglomerate. It fundamentally alters the 1906 Antiquities Act by mandating Congressional approval for national monuments in the Superior and Chippewa National Forests. This is a virtually unprecedented attack on the Antiquities Act. This bill chips away at fundamental conservation principles in the United States by establishing a carve-out from one of our nation’s essential public lands laws. These concerns have been echoed by leaders at some of the United States’ foremost organizations advocating for the protection of our environment and the conservation of our public lands. I have attached statements from them to this letter. If this legislation were allowed to move forward with these troubling provisions intact, it would not only undercut existing environmental and public lands laws. It would also undermine the environmental and economic health of northern Minnesota. Drawn by the pristine landscape, the BWCAW today attracts more than 250,000 visitors each year who take advantage of unparalleled opportunities to canoe, fish, and explore this area. These visitors have been a boon to a thriving outdoor recreation economy in the area. According to the Iron Range Resources & Rehabilitation Board, tourism in Northeastern Minnesota supports 18,000 jobs and brings $850 million in sales annually to the region. These jobs are dependent on a healthy watershed, and Representative Emmer’s plan to reinstate leases for copper-sulfide ore mining would put these jobs and the growing economy they support at risk. As the previous administration explained when issuing their denial of the Twin Metals leases: “It is well established that acid mine drainage is a significant environmental risk at sulfide ore mine sites like the one proposed for these leased lands and in a water-based ecosystem like the Boundary Waters because contaminated water could have dramatic impacts to aquatic life, sport fisheries, and recreation-based uses and communities.” As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to be good stewards of our nation’s natural resources. It would be a grave mistake to allow dangerous mining to take place on the edge of the Boundary Waters, one of the last wild places in our country. I urge you to oppose the discussion draft presented by Representative Emmer. Sincerely, /s/ Betty McCollum Member of Congress Statements opposing the discussion draft from leading environmental and public lands organizations Lena Moffitt, Director of Our Wild American Program, Sierra Club: "The waters of Lake Superior and the Boundary Waters are a precious national resource, depended on and enjoyed by millions of Americans. Sadly, members of Congress are clearly prioritizing the interests of multinational mining companies over the needs of both local communities and the American public. We strongly oppose these attacks on our public lands and waters, and call on Congressional leaders to do the same." Jamie Williams, President, The Wilderness Society: “The Emmer mining bill is yet another dangerous attack on our public lands. Anti-conservation interests are determined to let Congress sell or lease to private profiteers our nation’s natural treasures that are owned by all Americans. In addition to opening the door to sulfide-ore mining in the priceless Boundary Waters watershed, the bill undermines bedrock conservation laws including the Antiquities Act, used by Republican and Democratic presidents alike to protect places of historic or natural significance. The Boundary Waters is one of the original places protected by the 1964 Wilderness Act, is America’s most visited wilderness area, and its waters must be protected from industrial mining.” Alex Taurel, Deputy Legislative Director, League of Conservation Voters: "This radical legislation would harm Minnesota's outdoor recreation economy by allowing a foreign mining company to build a risky mine that threatens the health of America's most visited wilderness area in the spectacular Boundary Waters. We urge members of congress to oppose this harmful bill that greenlights a decision on the project based on politics and shamefully cuts out the voices of Minnesotans and people across the country that have engaged in a lengthy public process." M
07.26.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) made the following remarks opposing House Republicans' so-called "security minibus," a spending bill that includes fraudulent defense spending numbers, guts critical investments in clean energy and advanced energy research, and includes poison pill riders that weaken the Clean Water Act: I rise in strong opposition to the Make America Secure Appropriations Act of 2018. Mr. Speaker, we are in a constrained fiscal environment, and we need to make smart choices about the future of our country. So I am disappointed to see that many of the choices that Republican leaders have made in this bill are completely out of balance with the needs of the American people. Republicans have chosen to exclude eight of the appropriations bills from this legislation: funding for safe roads and bridges to drive on, quality healthcare for families, protection of our clean air and drinking water, and education for future generations. These critical investments that all Americans depend on are left by the way side with no path forward. Instead, Republicans have chosen to put forward a bill that exceeds the defense cap by $72 billion. With no budget agreement in sight, this bill would trigger the sequestration cuts that our military leaders have warned would have catastrophic consequences for our men and women in uniform. Republicans have also once again declined to make common sense cuts to defense spending by denying the Pentagon’s request for a new BRAC round. Make no mistake, this will waste billions of dollars over the next decade And at a time when countries like China are emphasizing research and investment in clean energy – Republicans have chosen to eliminate funding for ARPA-E, and gut America’s global competitiveness in advanced energy research. Mr. Speaker, these choices are simply unacceptable to my constituents and to the American people. I urge my Republican colleagues to work with Democrats and put forward appropriate funding levels for all the appropriations bills. I yield back.
07.25.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after Vice President Mike Pence and Senate Republicans voted to proceed to consideration of Trumpcare: “By voting to advance Trumpcare, Vice President Mike Pence and Senate Republicans once again affirmed their vision of less health care for Americans and more tax cuts for billionaires. “The stakes are high. If this bill passes, millions of Americans will lose coverage, premiums will skyrocket, and people with pre-existing conditions will be priced out of health care. “The fight to protect our health care is not over. We must keep making our voices heard against Republicans’ shameful proposals.”
07.18.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, today led House Democrats opposing the fiscal year 2018 Interior-Environment Appropriations bill during the Appropriations Committee’s mark-up of the legislation. House Republicans advanced their bill on a 30-21 vote. “The Interior-Environment jurisdiction includes important activities that keep our families safe from pollution, conserve our natural resources, preserve our history, and foster the cultural life of our nation,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “House Republicans’ bill cuts these critical efforts, endangering our nation’s natural and cultural resources.” The deepest cuts in the bill attack the Environmental Protection Agency, which has already sustained a $2.2 billion cut since fiscal year 2010. House Republicans’ bill includes an additional $528 million cut to the EPA. “If enacted, the cuts in this bill will further undermine the EPA’s ability to keep our families and communities healthy and to protect our environment for future generations. These cuts will even weaken the basic enforcement that keeps deadly toxins out of our air and water,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Refusing to fund the work needed to protect the public health and our environment is short-sighted and reckless. But that is exactly what is proposed in this bill.” Congresswoman McCollum’s full opening statement at the House Appropriations Committee mark-up is available here.
07.18.2017	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The activities funded under the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Subcommittee keep our families safe from pollution, meet our commitments to Native Americans, conserve our natural resources, preserve our history, and foster the cultural life of our nation. These activities are critical, which is why I am deeply disappointed that the FY 2018 Chairman’s mark for this subcommittee proposes a cut of $824 million below the FY 2017 enacted level.This level is simply too low. It is a step backwards. A cut of this magnitude endangers our nation’s natural and cultural resources. Once again, the Environmental Protection Agency is hit hardest by the cuts recommended in this bill. The EPA is slashed by $528 million, shouldering a whopping 64 percent of the Subcommittee’s overall cut. When we held our Subcommittee’s EPA budget hearing, several of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle rejected the Trump Administration’s reckless budget request. President Trump’s proposed cuts were unquestionably damaging and irresponsible. But this Committee also must acknowledge the deep cuts the EPA has already endured over the past seven years. In fact, since FY 2010, the EPA has been reduced by $2.2 billion and has 2,000 fewer staff. Adjusted for inflation, the Environmental Protection Agency has already been cut 30 percent below FY10 levels. Despite these alarming figures, the Chairman’s mark cuts the EPA even further. If enacted, the cuts in this bill will further undermine the EPA’s ability to keep our families and communities healthy and to protect our environment for future generations. These cuts will even weaken the basic enforcement that keeps deadly toxins out of our air and water. In years past, my Republican colleagues have justified cuts to the EPA by citing their objections to the agency’s regulatory decisions. Today, however, Republican control of the White House and both chambers should be enough to influence policy, without resorting to funding cuts that will cripple the EPA’s ability to function. Every American, regardless of political party, wants clean air and clean water for their families, and a habitable planet for our children and grandchildren. What we, as Members of this Committee, have to decide is, what are we willing to invest to achieve those goals? Refusing to fund the work needed to protect the public health and our environment is short-sighted and reckless. But that is exactly what is proposed in this bill. While I strongly oppose the bill’s cuts, I am pleased that it rejects some of the Trump administration’s worst proposals. The bill reflect our Committee’s non-partisan approach to meeting federal commitments to our Native American brothers and sisters, and it rejects the cruel cuts proposed by the Trump administration. I am very pleased that the bill recommends an increase of $106 million for programs critical to Indian Country, including new resources that will help meet pressing education, health care, and criminal justice needs. The bill also continues funding for important grant programs within the National Park Service’s Historic Preservation Fund. However, I am disappointed that the Majority’s leadership missed an opportunity to take action on the common-sense reforms championed in Chairman Simpson’s wildfire disaster funding bill. Instead, the costs of wildfire suppression continue to rage out of control. This year, we will spend $3.4 billion, or 11 percent of the subcommittee’s total allocation, on wildland fire. This status quo is unsustainable. It undercuts our subcommittee’s ability to fund core functions of the Forest Service and the Department of the Interior. It is imperative we push for a solution. I must also express my dismay with the 16 partisan riders in this bill. These extraneous provisions may benefit polluters, but they do nothing to help the American people. These riders undermine clean air and clean water standards, put the health and safety of American families at risk, and roll back protections for endangered species. Mr. Chairman, you’ll be hearing more from me about these awful riders later in our markup, but let me just give one example now. This bill includes a rider that interferes with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. By threatening this critical rule on air pollution, the Majority is playing politics with a rule that will prevent hundreds of premature deaths from toxic air each year. Riders like these are ideological poison-pills that harm the public interest. They simply do not belong in this bill. Just over two months ago, Republicans and Democrats came together to pass a strong bipartisan appropriations bill that stripped out dozens of riders and provided vital funding for the important agencies under the purview of the Interior and Environment Subcommittee. So coming off that recent success, I am frustrated and disappointed to find us considering a partisan bill, which will not become law in its current form. This bill fails to meet the needs of the American people, and needlessly puts the health and safety of American families at risk. I strongly oppose this approach. But there is a better way: the omnibus we passed in May ensured that the health and safety of the American people and the well-being of the environment were protected. I hope that we can achieve that same bipartisan success this year. I look forward to working together with Chairman Calvert and my colleagues through this year’s appropriations process to produce a responsible bill that both parties can support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
07.18.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the latest version of Trumpcare appeared to collapse in the United States Senate: “For eight years, Republicans have worked to undermine the Affordable Care Act while selling voters a promise to repeal the law. Now, after creating a health care disaster for which they are entirely responsible, they are pulling a political bait-and-switch on the American people. “The Trump-Pence-Ryan-McConnell plan for health care was never about helping Americans. Instead, it has always been about tax cuts for billionaires paid for by sabotaging the Affordable Care Act and terminating care for our children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities. Today, Trumpcare is collapsing under the weight of its cruelty and the American people’s resistance to this terrible legislation. “Instead of pursuing even worse legislation to appease the far right, Republicans should drop their sabotage of the Affordable Care Act. They should finally join Democrats at the table and work with us on bipartisan legislation to improve and strengthen the Affordable Care Act for all Americans, especially those on the individual market.”
07.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after House Republicans on the committee defeated her amendment to defund President Donald Trump’s sham “election integrity commission”: “This commission exists to justify President Trump’s conspiracy theories and to advance a partisan agenda that will make it harder for some Americans to vote. I am deeply disappointed that House Republicans continue to cover for President Trump and support wasting taxpayer dollars on his sham commission. “We should be strengthening our democracy by making it easier for our citizens to register and cast ballots. Today’s vote shows that President Trump and Republicans want to take us in the other direction. As Americans, we must stay vigilant to defend voting rights and encourage universal voter participation.” The McCollum amendment would have barred the use of any federal funds for the so-called Presidential Commission on Election Integrity. The amendment was defeated on a 22-30 party-line vote. The commission was established after President Trump repeatedly peddled outrageous claims that about illegal voting during the 2016 presidential election. These claims have been roundly rejected by election officials and experts of both parties. Chaired by Vice President Mike Pence, the commission includes Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, the architect of some of the nation’s harshest anti-voting rights legislation. Since 2010, Republicans like Vice President Pence and Secretary Kobach have championed legislation to impose onerous voter ID requirements, make it harder for citizens to register, and limit access to early voting. In one of its first official acts, the commission requested sensitive personal information about all American voters. A bipartisan coalition of Secretaries of State and chief election officers soundly rejected the commission’s request, which has also been challenged in federal court.
07.13.2017	The House Appropriations Committee today adopted an amendment offered by Representatives Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and Tom Cole (R-Okla.) that protects tribal nations across the country from a drastic cut to their criminal and civil justice funds. “As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to meet the safety and justice needs of tribal nations. This amendment ensures that we restore the dedicated funding for tribal justice systems and permit tribal nations to be part of the substantial increase this bill creates for the Crime Victims Fund,” Representative McCollum said. “I want to thank my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, especially my Congressional Native American Caucus co-chair Representative Tom Cole, for working with me on this important amendment.” The McCollum-Cole Amendment, which modifies language in the Commerce-Justice-Science appropriations bill, passed on a voice vote. “It is sad, but true, that Indian country has some of the highest crime rates in America‎. Representative McCollum's amendment is an effort to make sure the federal government and the Justice Department do more to fulfill their responsibility to combat crime and protect victims in Indian country. Further, the five percent funding directive for the Crime Victims Fund ensures that tribal members receive quality support in crime recovery,” Representative Cole said. “I’m proud to work with my colleague Representative McCollum to safeguard our tribal communities and defend their right to have quality law enforcement and judicial protection.” To help tribal nations better meet challenges and strengthen their justice systems, both the Obama and Trump administrations proposed that Indian Country grants throughout Department of Justice be consolidated into a flexible seven percent set-aside. In the fiscal year 2017 omnibus appropriations bill, however, tribal nations were subjected to a misguided, last-minute change in that language. That resulted in a 40 percent cut to tribal justice funds compared to fiscal year 2016. The McCollum-Cole Amendment corrects that mistake. It restores funding for tribal justice systems to its previous average levels by ensuring that the seven percent set-aside includes the justice assistance grant and opioid addiction and recovery programs. The amendment also allocates five percent of the Crime Victims Fund (CVF) for tribal governments. The National Task Force to End Sexual and Domestic Violence submitted a letter to the House Appropriations Committee supporting this five percent set-aside, showing the broad support among victims advocate groups for allowing tribal nations to have access to the high-quality recovery services the Crime Victims Fund supports.
07.12.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will offer an amendment tomorrow in the House Appropriations Committee to bar the use of any federal funds for President Donald Trump’s sham “election integrity” commission. “President Trump’s sham election commission exists to justify his outrageous falsehoods about ‘illegal voting’ and to further the Republican Party’s voter suppression agenda,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This commission is an affront to our democracy and a waste of taxpayer dollars. The American people should not have to foot the bill to indulge President Trump’s Twitter rants and conspiracy theories.” The commission, formally known as Presidential Advisory Committee on Election Integrity, was established after President Trump repeatedly peddled outrageous claims that about illegal voting during the 2016 presidential election — an election he lost by nearly three million votes. These claims have been roundly rejected by election officials and experts. In response to President Trump’s comments, the National Association of Secretaries of State said, “we are not aware of any evidence that supports the voter fraud claims made by President Trump.” Chaired by Vice President Mike Pence, the commission includes Kansas Secretary of State Kris Kobach, the architect of some of the nation’s harshest anti-voting rights legislation. Since 2010, Republicans like Vice President Pence and Secretary Kobach have championed legislation to impose onerous voter ID requirements, make it harder for citizens to register, and limit access to early voting. In one of its first official acts, the commission requested sensitive personal information about all American voters. A bipartisan coalition of Secretaries of State and chief election officials soundly rejected the commission’s request, which has also been challenged in federal court. Congresswoman McCollum's amendment will be offered during the House Appropriations Committee's consideration of the fiscal year 2018 Financial Services and General Government appropriations bill. The amendment is a simple, one-sentence proposal: "None of the funds made available by this Act may be used for the Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity, as established under Executive Order 13799 (82 Fed. Reg. 22389; relating to ‘‘Establishment of Presidential Advisory Commission on Election Integrity’’)."
07.12.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, voiced her opposition to House Republicans’ fiscal year 2018 Interior-Environment Appropriations bill during today’s Subcommittee mark-up. “I am deeply disappointed that House Republicans’ fiscal year 2018 Interior-Environment bill cuts funding by $824 million relative to the fiscal year 2017 enacted level,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “The bill’s overall funding level is too low and threatens many important programs that protect our nation’s natural and cultural resources.” Congresswoman McCollum drew particular attention to the bill’s sharp cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. House Republicans’ bill slashes the EPA by $528 million, on top of a reduction of $2.2 billion since fiscal year 2010. “The cuts proposed in this bill would further undermine EPA’s ability to protect human health and the health of our environment,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This bill weakens the enforcement that keeps toxins out of our air and water. Surely, Republican control of the White House and both chambers should be enough to influence policy without having to slash funding for the EPA and cripple its ability to function.” Congresswoman McCollum’s full opening statement at the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee mark-up is available here.
07.12.2017	I would like to thank the Chairman and his staff for their collaboration on a very successful FY 2017 Omnibus. Just two months ago, we were able to come together and pass a bipartisan appropriations bill that stripped out dozens of riders and provided vital funding for the important agencies under this subcommittee’s purview. So coming off that recent success, I am frustrated to find us back at square one. The Majority has failed to adopt a budget resolution in time to inform the Appropriations process and, unfortunately, this led to them carrying out a secretive piecemeal approach to the subcommittees’ 302(b) allocations. In fact, it was only this week that the full list of allocations was shared with the Minority. This lack of transparency has placed the entire Committee at a disadvantage and undermined its work. I am deeply disappointed that the FY 2018 Chairman’s mark for the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies subcommittee cuts funding by $824 million below the FY 2017 enacted level. This level is too low and is a step in the wrong direction. These cuts mean that the needs of many important programs vital to protecting our nation’s natural and cultural resources will not be met. Once again, the EPA is hardest hit by the cuts recommended in this bill. The Agency is slashed by $528 million. This means that EPA is shouldering a whopping 64 percent of the allocation’s cut. Last month, during the EPA budget hearing, I was heartened to hear several of my colleagues on the other side of the aisle not only reject the Administration’s reckless budget request – but also acknowledge that EPA has been systematically cut for the past seven years. In fact, since FY 2010, EPA has been reduced by $2.2 billion and has 2,000 fewer staff. The cuts proposed in this bill would further undermine EPA’s ability to protect human health and the health of our environment. This bill weakens the enforcement that keeps toxins out of the air and water for our families and for our children. I believe everyone on this committee values clean air and clean water. Our differences are not in this goal, but in what we are willing to invest to achieve it. I urge my Republican colleagues to reconsider and ask themselves why they believe their cuts to the EPA are necessary. We all have a stake in the future and want to make this world habitable for our children and grandchildren. Surely, Republican control of the White House and both chambers should be enough to influence policy without having to slash funding for the EPA and cripple its ability to function. Although I cannot agree with the recommended cuts, the bill does continue several important programs. I am pleased that the Committee rejected the Administration’s proposal to eliminate grant programs within the National Park Service’s Historic Preservation Fund. This bill includes $10.5 million for the Civil Rights Initiative grant program, $3 million for grants-in-aid to Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and $4 million for Save America’s Treasures. This program funds preservation of nationally significant sites, structures, and artifacts. The bill also continues to reflect this subcommittee’s non-partisan approach to meeting our federal commitments to our Native American brothers and sisters, and it rejects the cruel cuts proposed in the Administration’s budget. The bill recommends an increase of $106 million for programs critical to Indian country. The Tiwahe Initiative is restored and targeted investments are recommended, including $11 million to hire additional law enforcement agents to assist tribes in combatting drug addiction, and $130 million for the Indian Health Care Improvement Fund to reduce health care disparities across the IHS system. The bill also continues our commitment to providing Native American students with safe schools that support learning, and it fully funds contract support costs so tribes are not penalized for exercising their self-determination rights. There are other areas, however, where the work of the majority has fallen short. The bill recommends $3.4 billion or 11% of the subcommittee’s total allocation for wildland fire, but once again the majority has failed to adopt the common sense reforms championed in Chairman Simpson’s wildfire disaster funding bill. We cannot afford to sit idly by while the costs of wildland fire eat up funding for the core missions of these Agencies. The Administration has failed to put forward any proposal to deal with this problem, which is starkly brought to our attention as wildfires burn in southern Utah and in California today. It is imperative we push for a solution. I must also express my concern and disappointment with the 16 partisan riders in this bill. These provisions seek to turn back protections for endangered species and undermine clean water and clean air protections. They simply do not belong in this bill. They undermine important environmental laws and endanger public health and safety, while benefiting polluters. In May, 178 Democrats and 131 Republicans voted together on an Omnibus funding bill that ensured that the health of the American people and the well-being of the environment were protected. I hope that we can achieve that same bipartisan success this year. But, this is not the bill that will get us there. While I cannot support this bill in its current form, I commit to working together with the Chairman and my colleagues through this year’s appropriations process to produce a responsible bill that both parties can support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
06.29.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) secured commitments from House Republicans and Democrats today for action to ensure the Department of Defense upholds it commitments to foreign-born recruits who have signed enlistment contracts under the Military Accessions Vital to the National Interest (MAVNI) program. “The United States has a moral and legal obligation to recruits who have signed contracts to serve in the military, no matter where they were born,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I appreciate the bipartisan concern on this issue and I look forward to working with my colleagues to find a solution that holds the Pentagon accountable and ensures it honors these contracts.” During today’s House Appropriations Committee markup of the fiscal year 2018 Defense Appropriations bill, Congresswoman McCollum offered an amendment that stops the Department of Defense from reneging on its commitment to these foreign-born recruits. It formally prevents the Department of Defense from using any federal funds to eliminate existing enlistment contracts for recruits in the MAVNI program, except in cases where the recruit has violated the law or the Uniform Code of Military Justice. After Republican and Democratic committee leaders expressed a willingness to work with Congresswoman McCollum to address the issue as the Defense Appropriations bill advances to the House Floor, Congresswoman McCollum agreed to withdraw her amendment. On Monday, the Washington Post reported that “the Pentagon is considering a plan to cancel enlistment contracts for 1,000 foreign-born recruits without legal immigration status, knowingly exposing them to deportation.” These recruits signed contracts under MAVNI, a military program that enlists foreign nationals who are not permanent residents but have certain essential medical and language skills to fill critical gaps in the military. After passing an extensive background check, medical recruits commit to serve three years of active duty service (or six years of reserve service) and language and cultural recruits commit to four years of active duty service. Recruits typically become naturalized citizens after completing basic training.
06.28.2017	With the Department of Defense considering a plan that could expose as many as 1,000 foreign-born American military recruits to deportation, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will offer an amendment during tomorrow’s House Appropriations Committee markup to ensure the Pentagon upholds contracts with foreign nationals who have signed up to serve the United States. On Monday, the Washington Post reported that “the Pentagon is considering a plan to cancel enlistment contracts for 1,000 foreign-born recruits without legal immigration status, knowingly exposing them to deportation.” About 1,800 foreign-born recruits have signed enlistment contracts under Military Accessions Vital to National Interest (MAVNI) but are still awaiting orders for basic training. An additional 2,400 are reservists who likewise have not yet completed basic training. Out of these approximately 4,200 recruits, at least 1,000 have been waiting so long to be given orders for basic training that their visas have expired. If their contracts are eliminated now, they would be put at immediate risk of deportation. “The United States has a moral and legal obligation to people who have signed contracts to serve our nation in the military,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “For the Department of Defense to even consider terminating these contracts is a betrayal of people with unique skills who want to serve our country. My amendment is a first step to holding the Pentagon accountable on its commitments to foreign nationals who want to fill critical military roles.” McCollum’s amendment to the fiscal year 2018 defense appropriations bill stops the Department of Defense from reneging on its commitment to foreign-born recruits in the MAVNI program. It formally prevents the Department of Defense from using any federal funds to eliminate existing enlistment contracts for recruits in the MAVNI program, except in cases where the recruit has violated the Uniform Code of Military Justice or otherwise made himself or herself ineligible to serve in the military. In addition to fulfilling our country’s moral obligations, the McCollum Amendment helps meet the military’s critical needs and protects taxpayer dollars by avoiding the payment of large sums to meet the same critical needs filled by these foreign nationals. MAVNI is a military program that enlists foreign nationals who have certain essential medical and language skills to fill critical gaps in the military. The program was created by Secretary Robert M. Gates during the Bush administration. Since 2009, more than 10,000 service members have participated in MAVNI and filled critical roles in medical and language-centric positions that the military would otherwise have been unable to meet. Under MAVNI, foreign nationals who are not permanent residents may enlist after demonstrating they have certain essential skills. After passing an extensive background check, medical recruits commit to serve three years of active duty service (or six years of reserve service) and language and cultural recruits commit to four years of active duty service. Recruits typically become naturalized citizens after completing basic training.
06.24.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) welcomed His Holiness the Dalai Lama to Minnesota and joined him on stage for his public talk at the Minneapolis Convention Center, an event hosted by the Tibetan American Foundation of Minnesota. In her remarks, Congresswoman McCollum reiterated her strong support for the vibrant Tibetan-American community in the Twin Cities and her commitment to securing peace, justice, and human rights for the people of Tibet. "Today, let us focus our minds, our hearts, our prayers, and, as free people, let us work to make the people of Tibet free. It is long past time for China’s repression in Tibet to end. The human rights abuses must stop. The prisoners of conscience must be set free. The destruction of Tibetan culture and the repression of Buddhist monks and scholars must stop," Congresswoman McCollum said. "China is a powerful country. But, the United States is a free and powerful country. The United States must never abandon our commitment to freedom, justice, and human rights around the world. And, we must never abandon the people of Tibet." Congresswoman McCollum's full remarks at the public talk with His Holiness are below: Good morning! I am so pleased to be here with Minnesota’s strong and thriving Tibetan community. I wish to thank the Tibetan American Foundation of Minnesota for inviting me to join you this morning. Only one month ago – in May – I was in Dharamsala, India as part of an official congressional delegation led by the Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi. In Dharamsala my colleagues and I were humbled to be received very warmly and graciously by His Holiness the Dalai Lama. We had a very special visit with His Holiness. Today, it is our honor to welcome His Holiness to Minnesota and his presence is a blessing and inspiration for all of us. Please accept my offer of strong support for Tibetans in Minnesota and across the U.S., for the Tibetan community in India and Nepal, and all Tibetans living in exile. The refugee experience, being forced from ones homeland, fleeing violence and persecution, is a journey of loss, pain, and suffering. You never forget home, but now you have a second home and together we must make this home in America one of safety, hope, and opportunity. We want this home to be welcoming for your families and a place where you have the freedom to maintain your culture, practice your beliefs, and sustain your rich traditions as Tibetans. I know firsthand the important contributions Tibetan-Americans are making here in Minnesota and I am grateful. Your community makes Minnesota a stronger, better state. In 2015, I was in Tibet, your homeland. I experienced the mountains, the thin air in my lungs, and the warmth of the Tibetan people I met. But, there was also the heavy burden of a land that is not free. The people of Tibet are not free. Today, let us focus our minds, our hearts, our prayers, and, as free people, let us work to make the people of Tibet free. It is long past time for China’s repression in Tibet to end. The human rights abuses must stop. The prisoners of conscience must be set free. The destruction of Tibetan culture and the repression of Buddhist monks and scholars must stop. With great sadness, I must tell you that two weeks ago I received a letter from China’s Consul General in Chicago asking me to refrain from “any contact with the Dalai Lama in any form.” The letter called today’s gathering a platform for a separatist plot. There is no plot, only a path of peace and dialogue. Let us follow His Holiness on that path, a path to separate the Tibetan people from political repression, a path to separate Tibet from endless acts of cultural destruction, and a path to separate the political and religious prisoners from their cells and their suffering. As a Member of Congress, I urge the Congress and the President of the United States to stand with the people of Tibet to promote human rights, religious freedom, and a meaningful political dialogue. China is a powerful country. But, the United States is a free and powerful country. The United States must never abandon our commitment to freedom, justice, and human rights around the world. And, we must never abandon the people of Tibet. I will work in Congress to continue U.S. funding for all Tibetan programs, scholarships, and assistance for refugees. And, I will work to pass H.R. 1872 – the “Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act of 2017.” Let me also urge President Trump to meet directly with His Holiness the Dalai Lama and listen to his wise and compassionate insights. Mr. Trump needs to hear why ongoing U.S. support for Tibet is vital. The teachings of His Holiness are not only wise, they are in the best interest of the United States and of all of mankind. Let us love our planet and work to stop climate change. Let us welcome refugees and all who flee violence and suffering whether Buddhist, Christian or Muslim. Let us open our hearts to the poor and the vulnerable – in our own communities and around the world. Minnesota is blessed by our Tibetan brothers and sisters. And, today we are blessed by the presence of His Holiness and his teachings. May peace be upon us all and may we follow its path together. Thank you.
06.23.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement celebrating LGBT Pride Month: “Each June, we celebrate LGBT Pride Month. We honor the contributions of LGBT Americans, we recognize the activism and energy of LGBT leaders in holding the United States to its highest ideals, and we reflect on our ongoing work to forge a more just and inclusive country. “We have achieved tremendous progress when it comes to equal rights for LGBT Americans. From our 1993 ban on workplace discrimination to our 2012 vote for marriage equality, Minnesota has led the way. At the federal level, we have secured nationwide marriage equality and finally ended the military’s harmful ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ policy. “Unfortunately, the journey to full equality is not over. President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans are attacking hard-won LGBT rights, appointing anti-LGBT officials to senior roles, and rolling back protections for transgender Americans. Instead of this backwards agenda, Congress should pass the Equality Act, a bill I have co-sponsored that secures full legal equality for LGBT Americans. “We have come too far to turn back now. In the year ahead, we must all raise our voices to guarantee a fairer, safer, and brighter future for all Americans, including the LGBT community.”
06.22.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement about Senate Republicans unveiled a “discussion draft” of their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Just like House Republicans’ legislation, Senate Republicans’ Trumpcare bill takes away health care from children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities in order to give billionaires lavish tax breaks. “Millions of Americans will lose their health coverage. Out-of-pocket costs will soar and essential consumer protections will be gutted. Older Americans will be forced to pay a crushing age tax, while women will see their access to care curtailed by the defunding of Planned Parenthood. Deep Medicaid cuts will hurt children, people with disabilities, seniors with long-term care needs, and our most vulnerable neighbors. “Make no mistake: Trumpcare is mean. I will stand united with my Democratic colleagues and the vocal majority of Americans who oppose this disastrous bill. We must protect our health care.”
06.19.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and the House Appropriations Committee voted last week to approve $39 million for the construction of the Arden Hills National Guard Readiness Center. “The Arden Hills National Guard Readiness Center is a critical project that will ensure our Minnesota National Guard units have the training and tools required to support our state and our country,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud that we have been able to secure this $39 million investment for our community and I look forward to ensuring this funding is enacted into law.” The $39 million in funding is included in the $88.8 billion in discretionary funding in the fiscal year 2018 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs appropriations bill. Congresswoman McCollum, a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, worked with her colleagues to provide full funding for all Army National Guard construction projects in this year’s appropriations bill, including for the Arden Hills project. The Arden Hills National Guard Readiness Center, part of the Arden Hills Army Training Site, is a nearly 150,000 square foot center that will support training, administrative, and logistical requirements for the Minnesota National Guard.
06.16.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after Officer Jeronimo Yanez was found not guilty of all charges in the Philando Castile case: “The death of Philando Castile last summer was a tragedy that shook our community and our entire country. His death continues to be painful and traumatic for his family, loved ones, and the many people touched by his life. After a thorough and fair investigation, Ramsey County Attorney John Choi correctly brought this case before a jury. The trial offered transparency to the public and allowed a jury to determine legal responsibility in this case. The jury has now resolved the legal issue of criminality by acquitting Officer Jeronimo Yanez. “Many Minnesotans and Americans will be disappointed, heartbroken, and angry over today’s verdict. Every member of our community is entitled to their own opinion on the case — and the peaceful expression of those opinions is the cornerstone of our democracy. However, there are things we can all agree on: We must work together to build a stronger, more trusting relationship between our communities and our law enforcement. And we must truly confront racism and racial injustice in every facet of our society. As we have these important conversations, I am hopeful that the entire Twin Cities community will be respectful of one another.”
06.15.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) condemned President Donald Trump’s cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and vowed House Democrats will strongly oppose them during an appropriations hearing with EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt today. “The Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for protecting human health and the environment and ensuring clean air and clean water for families and children. Yet the budget you have come before us to support today would endanger the health of millions of Americans, jeopardize the quality of our air and water, and wreak havoc on our economy,” Congresswoman McCollum told Administrator Pruitt. “The Trump Administration’s fiscal year 2018 budget abandons the EPA’s responsibility to the American people by proposing a $2.4 billion cut— a 30 percent cut! The last time an EPA appropriation was this low was in 1990. This Administration would set the Agency back 30 years, ignoring the complex environmental challenges we face today.” Congresswoman McCollum specifically addressed the Trump administration’s devastating climate agenda, which has included the United States’ withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement. In the fiscal year 2018 budget for the EPA, President Trump and Administrator Pruitt have proposed cutting climate change programs by 91 percent. “The most recent and most reckless action was his withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement, which has made the United States an environmental rogue nation,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This budget is the latest expression of the Administration’s willful denial of climate science. The EPA’s website states ‘Earth is currently getting warmer because people are adding heat-trapping greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.’ Yet this budget ignores that science, and cuts funding for climate change programs by 91 percent.” In her opening statement, Congresswoman McCollum noted strong bipartisan opposition to many of President Trump’s proposed cuts to the EPA. Congresswoman McCollum also laid down her marker for EPA spending, insisting on nothing less than funding at fiscal year 2017 levels. “President Trump can propose this destructive budget and Administrator Pruitt can promote it. But it is Congress and this committee that will determine the EPA’s funding,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “As Members of Congress, we cannot allow the harm to the American people that this budget would inflict. I will strongly oppose anything below the current fiscal year 2017 funding level for the EPA, and I will do everything I can to ensure another 192 Democrats are standing with me.” The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s opening statement is available here.
06.15.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following opening statement at the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee's hearing with EPA Administratior Scott Prutit on the fiscal year 2018 budget request for the Environmental Protection Agency: Thank you, Chairman Calvert. Good morning, Administrator Pruitt. The Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for protecting human health and the environment and ensuring clean air and clean water for families and children. Yet the budget you have come before us to support today would endanger the health of millions of Americans, jeopardize the quality of our air and water, and wreak havoc on our economy. The Trump Administration’s fiscal year 2018 budget abandons the EPA’s responsibility to the American people by proposing a $2.4 billion cut— a 30 percent cut! The last time an EPA appropriation was this low was in 1990. This Administration would set the Agency back 30 years, ignoring the complex environmental challenges we face today. Mr. Trump campaigned last year on an agenda that included allowing companies to pollute our air, our water, and our land. He embraced climate deniers, ridiculed science, and promised to surrender America’s global leadership on climate change. Now, Mr. Trump is President Trump — and he is putting that anti-environment agenda into action. Executive orders have directed the government to ignore the significant costs of pollution and climate change to our economy. Republican-passed legislation was signed into law that stops an EPA rule to keep toxic coal mining waste out of our water. The most recent and most reckless action was his withdrawal from the Paris Climate Agreement, which has made the United States an environmental rogue nation. This budget is the latest expression of the Administration’s willful denial of climate science. The EPA’s website states “Earth is currently getting warmer because people are adding heat-trapping greenhouse gases to the atmosphere.” Yet this budget ignores that science, and cuts funding for climate change programs by 91 percent. This budget includes cuts so deep that 46 programs are eliminated. Many of these are widely supported, and relied upon by industry. One example is Energy Star, which has saved customers an estimated $430 billion on their utility bills since 1992. The realtors, manufacturers, builders, retail…they all want the EPA to continue this program! The budget also proposes to eliminate enormously successful geographic programs — like the Great Lakes, the Puget Sound, and the Chesapeake Bay — that are economic generators for local communities. For every $1 invested in Great Lakes restoration, there is a $2 return in benefits such as increased fishing, tourism and home values. In short, the American taxpayer is getting a great deal with a program that protects our resources, creates jobs, and promotes growth! The Trump administration has shown its contempt for science, both through this budget and through policy decisions. The budget proposes to cut EPA’s Office of Research and Development by $237 million, or 46 percent. This Office provides the foundation for credible decision-making to safeguard human health from environmental pollutants. Administrator Pruitt, under your leadership, the EPA dismissed the work done by scientists in the Office of Research and Development when you cancelled a planned ban of a harmful pesticide. I have here a letter from the American Academy of Pediatrics, which asked the EPA to protect vulnerable children and pregnant women from exposure to this pesticide. This pesticide damages children’s brains. You disregarded evidence like this from doctors and scientists, and now this budget would stifle the very office that provides such scientific analysis within the EPA. This budget also guts funding for State Agencies, proposing to cut the Categorical grants by $469 million — 44 percent. These cuts will cripple states’ ability to implement core environmental programs that protect public health. And finally, I would be remiss if I did not call attention to the Agency’s workforce. The budget proposes to cut nearly 3,800 employees. These are the frontline scientists, experts, and enforcement officers who protect the American people from toxins, carcinogens, radioactive waste, lead in water, and other dangerous chemicals. We tend to forget we owe them a debt of gratitude for the quality of the water from our taps and the clean air that we breathe. As we know, Mr. Chairman, President Trump can propose this destructive budget and Administrator Pruitt can promote it. But it is Congress and this committee that will determine the EPA’s funding. On May 5, President Trump signed the fiscal year 2017 Omnibus Appropriations bill into law. 178 Democrats and 131 Republicans voted to together to fund the EPA at a level which sustains the agency, supports a skilled federal workforce, and protects public health and safety. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for working with Democrats to achieve that very positive outcome for our nation. As we look forward, I know we will need to rely on that positive working relationship again. However, I want to be clear: I will not support an Interior-Environment appropriations bill that funds the EPA below the current FY2017 funding levels. Cuts to the EPA put the lives, health, and well-being of the American people in grave danger. I'll close by offering one last example of that negligence. Radon is responsible for about 21,000 lung cancer deaths every year. Radon is the number one cause of lung cancer among non-smokers. Mr. Pruitt, this budget proposes to eliminate funding for the EPA’s radon program, which educates Americans about that threat and builds capacity in states to save lives. I just came from another Appropriations hearing with the Secretary of Defense. We need a strong Defense to protect the safety of the American people. But it cannot come at the expense of life saving programs here at home. As Members of Congress, we cannot allow the harm to the American people that this budget would inflict. I will strongly oppose anything below the current fiscal year 2017 funding level for the EPA— and I will do everything I can to ensure another 192 Democrats are standing with me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
06.14.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on this morning’s shooting at House and Senate Republicans’ practice for the Congressional Baseball Game: “I am deeply saddened by the horrific shooting at House and Senate Republicans’ baseball practice this morning. This senseless violence is absolutely despicable. “My thoughts and prayers are with Majority Whip Steve Scalise, staff members, and the Capitol Police officers who were injured this morning. “As always, I am grateful to the Capitol Police and our first responders who bravely serve and protect Members of Congress, staff, and visitors.” Congresswoman McCollum was not in attendance at this morning’s Republican practice. Congresswoman McCollum’s Washington office remains open and Congresswoman McCollum and her staff are conducting previously-scheduled meetings with the many Minnesotans visiting Washington this week on business or for vacation.
06.08.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) led Democrats opposing President Donald Trump's backwards budget at a House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee hearing with Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke. "The proposals contained in President Trump’s budget are reckless and endanger our Nation’s natural and cultural resources," Congresswoman McCollum said. "This budget guts funding for programs critical to appropriately manage public lands, it dishonors our commitment to Native Americans and rejects science." In his fiscal year 2018 budget proposal, President Trump proposed a 13 percent cut to the Department of the Interior, including an 80 percent cut to climate change research and mitigation programs. The budget also whacks funding for programs for Native Americans, while continuing to tilt the playing field to Big Oil. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum's opening statement is below: I want to begin by saying how profoundly disappointed I am that President Trump is withdrawing the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement. His decision harms the health of our children and grandchildren and jeopardizes the environment we will leave them. This Administration’s willful denial of the threats of climate change is reflected in the Department of the Interior’s budget, which cuts funding for climate change research and mitigation by an appalling 80 percent. The Department manages hundreds of millions of acres of America’s most precious lands and resources. Despite this tremendously important responsibility, President Trump’s 2018 budget cuts the Department of the Interior by $1.6 billion or 13%. The proposals contained in President Trump’s budget are reckless and endanger our Nation’s natural and cultural resources. This budget guts funding for programs critical to appropriately manage public lands, it dishonors our commitment to Native Americans and rejects science. Sadly, this budget advances an agenda that puts the profits of oil companies above the public good. There is a place for responsible oil and gas development on our public lands, but it must be balanced and sustainable. This budget abandons the Department’s conservation responsibilities. The Administration has already begun to reverse critical environmental policies, such as those that limit offshore drilling, a moratorium on coal-mining leases, and the control of methane venting from drilling operations. These policies were carefully developed by a thorough scientific and public process, but the Administration would rather ignore science and public opinion. The Administration also proposes significant reductions to Indian programs. The Department’s Bureaus of Indian Affairs and Education are responsible for enhancing social and economic well-being of Native Americans. This budget ignores that obligation, and cuts Indian programs by $372 million or 13%. In particular, the Department’s decision to eliminate the Tiwahe Initiative’s investment in family supports will devastate tribes like the Red Lake Nation in Minnesota, who have used the funding to open their Children’s Healing Center and stop an epidemic of youth suicide on their reservation. This is a successful pilot program that we should be expanding, not eliminating. The budget request stalls the progress we are making to replace BIE schools that are in deplorable condition and cuts programs that provide social services, welfare assistance, and Indian Child Welfare Act protections. The United States has an obligation to protect tribal treaty rights and resources. It is disgraceful that the Administration’s budget request turns its back on this duty. I am proud and grateful that funding for Native American issues has been an area of broad bipartisan cooperation and I fully expect that we will continue our commitment. The Department’s science programs provide data and tools to inform sound decision making to address complex challenges, such as drought, natural hazards, and climate change. It is short-sighted and irresponsible to cut programs that provide advance warning to protect the life and property of millions of Americans, like your proposed elimination of $10 million for the Nation’s early earthquake warning system. We can all agree that a strong America is one where we protect our natural resources for future generations. Being good stewards of those resources requires robust investments in both resource management and the staffing to carry it out. The staffing reductions you propose in this budget and the long-term workforce reduction plan you are developing do not provide any assurance you will be able to properly execute your duties and responsibilities. This budget is unacceptable and I expect my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reject it. The Interior Department and the American people deserve a budget that reflects the economic and recreational opportunities, and environmental benefits that Interior’s programs have on the lives of all Americans - especially their health and economic prosperity. I am going to make my position very clear: I will not support an Interior-Environment bill that appropriates less than our current FY2017 funding level. I pledge to work with my colleagues in Congress to ensure that the Department of the Interior has the necessary funding so that our Nation’s natural and cultural resources continue to be a benefit to all Americans.
06.06.2017	At an event for family, educators, and area service academy representatives Monday night, Congresswoman Betty McCollum recognized 11 Fourth District students who will attend U.S. Service Academies this fall. Congresswoman McCollum nominated each of the 11 Fourth District students to their respective U.S. Service Academies. Each received and accepted an appointment to attend. The students are: Ethan Auleciems of Lake Elmo (Stillwater Area H.S.) — U.S. Air Force Academy Madison Berg of Lake Elmo (Hill-Murray School) — U.S. Military Academy Gavin Bradley of Woodbury (Woodbury H.S.) — U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Riley Domler of St. Paul (Cretin-Derham Hall) — U.S. Naval Academy Andrew French of Afton (Woodbury H.S.) — U.S. Merchant Marine Academy Brittany Mahowald of Woodbury (East Ridge H.S.) – U.S. Air Force Academy Noah Qiu of Woodbury (Woodbury H.S.) — U.S. Air Force Academy Matthew Steiner of Roseville (DeLaSalle H.S.) — U.S. Air Force Academy River Thompson of Shoreview (Mounds View H.S. & Marion Military Institute) – U.S. Military Academy Noelle Tomes of Woodbury (East Ridge H.S.) —U.S. Air Force Academy Erik Vick of West Lakeland (St. Thomas Academy) – U.S. Military Academy “I am inspired by what these Fourth District students have already achieved in our community and I am proud to support their ongoing commitment to serve our country,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am delighted that they will all be attending U.S. Service Academies this fall.” From left to right: Noah Qiu, Riley Domler, Gavin Bradley, Matthew Steiner, Madison Berg, Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Brittany Mahowald, Noelle Tomes, Captain Mark J. Salmen, U.S. Navy (Ret.).
06.02.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Smithsonian Institution, released the following statement after two nooses were recently found on Smithsonian grounds, including one in the National Museum of African American History and Culture: “I strongly condemn these incidents, which evoke the history of racially-motivated lynching in our nation that is very painful to millions of Americans. Intolerance is never acceptable anywhere, but targeting a museum that honors the struggles and achievements of African Americans with this type of racial hatred is particularly deplorable. “I commend the robust and speedy response of Smithsonian Institution officials to these incidents. If the Smithsonian needs additional resources for increased security to prevent future incidents, I will work with them to ensure those resources are included in the upcoming fiscal year 2018 Interior-Environment appropriations bill.”
06.01.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Donald Trump formally announced the United States’ withdrawal from the Paris Agreement on climate change: “As our planet and humanity face the very real threat of climate change, this White House and the Republican Congress have isolated our nation by reneging on the Paris Agreement. This decision will make President Trump a pariah in the international community and severely damages the United States’ credibility among our allies. The world community cannot trust President Trump and neither should the American people.”
05.31.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined community members Wednesday, May 31 for the Breaking Ground of a major expansion of The Minnesota Museum of American Art — “The M” — in downtown St. Paul’s historic Pioneer Endicott building. The $12.5 million development project will begin this summer and expand the museum’s public space to more than 20,000 square feet, according to Wednesday’s announcement. The M’s gallery currently occupies the corner of the Pioneer building at Fourth and Robert streets. The new M will open in spring 2018 and include a state-of-the-art gallery, community gathering spaces and a sculpture court with a “sky bridge” overhead that extends the skyway over Robert Street into the M. Congresswoman McCollum delivered the following remarks at the event: Good afternoon. I am honored to be here today and I want to thank Trustee Jim Rustad and Executive Director Kristin Makholm for the invitation to join you. First, let me say “thank you” to everyone here today. By supporting “the M” you are supporting a St. Paul treasure. To have an accessible, energized art museum in downtown St. Paul is a tremendous asset to our city and a resource that benefits all Minnesotans. This week Congress is in recess and I could not be happier to be in St. Paul. The level of discourse and debate in Washington is deteriorating by the day, which is discouraging and painful. Still, I have a job to do and that job is to represent the nearly 700,000 people of Ramsey and Washington counties I work for. And, let me tell you, I represent one of be best congressional districts in America because my constituents believe in shared responsibility, the common good, and in community. Our community is caring, compassionate, and creative which demands active, engaged citizens. This is what makes the Twin Cities a great place to live. But, that could change. President Trump has proposed in his 2018 federal budget eliminating funding for more than 70 federal programs. Combined, these programs serve rich and poor, young and old, all races, religions and sexual orientations. These programs help keep communities whole, strong and successful. Communities can’t remain whole when funding for education, environmental protection, healthcare, transit, housing, help for the vulnerable and investments in the arts, the humanities, libraries and museums, arts education, and public broadcasting are all eliminated! The White House wants these programs cut to pay tax cuts and a massive increase in military spending – an increase of more than $50 billion. We can’t address the challenges facing our country or the needs of our families with tax cuts and more bombs and bullets. We need creative, dynamic citizens who can think, dialogue, analyze, and solve problems, and work together to build a better, strong America. And, just as we need housing, healthcare, and good schools – we need the arts, the humanities, and a creative economy that can drive innovation. We can have clean air and water, quality healthcare, great museums, and after-school programs – they are all important. Yesterday, I participated in a public hearing hosted by Minnesota Citizens for the Arts where I heard from more than a dozen artists and community leaders advocating for on-going support for the federal cultural agencies. It was important and powerful testimony. Thank you, MCA and Sheila Smith, for the leadership and advocacy. I believe that our federal government has duty to support creativity, education, information, and an intelligent dialogue among citizens that nourishes the minds, bodies and souls of the American people. Funding the NEA, the NEH, arts education, and the Institute for Museum and Library services are modest, but smart investments that strengthen communities and engage citizens. Unfortunately, this administration is not interested in nourishing creativity or even nourishing people physiologically, since they also want to cut food assistance for low-income seniors, children and families. Access to the arts is not a luxury. The arts belong to everyone. Art is an essential part of the human experience and I want every child, every senior, every family, every Minnesotan to have access to the arts. The creative community here in St. Paul, throughout the Twin Cities, and across our state is a thriving, energized, and job creating sector of our society. The Minnesota Museum of American Art is part of this artistic landscape and ecosystem of education, exploration, and citizen engagement. The “M’s” presence in St. Paul is a signature statement that complements our city’s exploding arts scene – from Lowertown to Vandalia, from the Schmidt Artist Lofts to the Creative Enterprise zone, we live in a city where making art, living with art, and experiencing art is essential, not optional. So, for me, the “M” is a destination, an experience, and an anchor of our city’s art scene. As our city continues to become more diverse, more engaged culturally, ethnically, and socially – the idea of “American” art will evolve and transform. Which puts the “M” at the epicenter of a creative transformation that will reshape our city, our state and our country for the better. Thank you for inviting me to join you here today. I wish the “M” much continued success and you have my commitment to continue to fight to make creativity essential to a strong community and art for all essential to active, engaged citizens. Thank you.
05.31.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in response to reports that President Donald Trump will withdraw from the landmark, 195-signatory Paris Agreement on climate change: “Climate change is the greatest environmental threat facing our planet and the next generation of humanity. We need collective action from political, economic, scientific, and faith leaders to confront climate change and prevent the devastating costs and consequences it will inflict on every nation and all mankind. “Instead of constructive leadership and action, President Trump and the Republican Congress are willing to renounce the Paris Agreement, make the United States an environmental rogue nation, and condemn the next generation to the hell of an overheated planet. “This is a historic moment. Every American who believes in science, environmental protection, and a sustainable future must stand up, speak out, and fight back against this dangerous White House. Together with the world community, responsible Americans must not allow President Trump to unilaterally threaten our planet.”
05.31.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement commemorating 2017 Asian Pacific American Heritage Month: “Throughout the month of May, our country has celebrated Asian Pacific American Heritage Month. We have honored the contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, including the vibrant Asian American community that makes up 13 percent of the Fourth District. “As we have seen in Minnesota and throughout the United States, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders have enriched our communities and our country through remarkable achievements in public service, business, science, the arts, and much more. “However, we know that disparities continue exist in health care and education for some Americans of Asian descent. We must strive to address these inequities and ensure that every American has the opportunity and the resources to achieve the American Dream. “I am proud to represent the Fourth District’s vibrant and diverse AAPI community in Congress. In the year ahead, I look forward to working with my constituents and my colleagues to build a stronger America with opportunities for all our people.”
05.30.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today heard testimony from Minnesota arts, humanities, libraries, museum, and public broadcasting leaders about the devastating impacts of President Donald Trump's fiscal year 2018 budget at a field hearing organized by Minnesota Citizens for the Arts. The hearing was called in response to President Trump's proposed elimination of the National Endowment for the Arts, National Endowment for the Humanities, Institute for Museum and Library Services, and Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Congresswoman McCollum, Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, shared her strong support for robust federal investment in arts and culture and her strong opposition to President Trump's budget. In particular, Congresswoman McCollum focused on the impact the proposed eliminations and cuts would have in Minnesota and laid out her plans to work with Democrats and Republicans to block President Trump's backwards proposals. "We are an arts leader. We have amazing public broadcasting. Our libraries and museums are nationally admired. All the federal benefit from Minnesota’s leadership in these areas is eliminated in this budget," Congresswoman McCollum said. "For me, this is about our quality of life. The arts, humanities, public broadcasting, our cultural institutions, and education system make this a great state to live in – they keep our communities whole, thriving and striving. These are among the amenities – necessities – that attract workers to Minnesota and keep businesses in our state." Among others, Congresswoman McCollum heard testimony from leaders of the Minnesota State Arts Board, the Minnesota Humanities Center, Twin Cities Public Television, Veterans Voices, Arts Midwest, Minneapolis Institute of Arts, Anderson Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, Deaf Artist Residency, Minnetonka Center for the Arts, and the Park Square Theatre. Congresswoman McCollum's full opening statement at today's hearing is below: Good morning. I would like to thank Minnesota Citizens for the Arts and Sheila Smith for hosting today’s hearing on the Trump administration’s Fiscal Year 2018 federal budget. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee I take the budget proposal submitted by any president seriously. It sets forth an administration’s priorities, values, and policy direction. But let me remind everyone, the president proposes and it is Congress’ constitutional role to put the finalize the budget and appropriate the funds. Of the over $4 trillion budget submitted by Mr. Trump, my committee is responsible for allocating over $1 trillion in discretionary federal funding annually. As the lead Democrat on the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I have direct jurisdiction for $32 billion in annual spending for the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of the Interior, the U.S. Forest Service, the Indian Health Service and Indian Education, the Smithsonian Institutions, and the National Endowment for the Arts and the National Endowment for the Humanities. Only last month and seven months late, Congress finally concluded its work on the Fiscal Year 2017 budget. Despite 103 House Republicans voting against the omnibus appropriations bill, I am very pleased to report that were able to sustain funding levels for most of the agencies in the Interior-Environment bill. Despite pressure from the Trump administration, the NEA and NEH each maintained their respective budgets of $150 million each. One bright spot that I’d like to report is that I was able to secure $5 million in new funding to “re-start” a program call “Save America’s Treasures” which had not been funded since 2010. SAT is a grant program for the historic preservation of buildings, collections, artifacts, and items of historic and cultural significance. It is administered by the National Park Service in partnership with NEA, NEH and the Institute for Museum and Library Services (IMLS). This is a small start, but it is time for the federal government to once again partner with communities to save America’s history, culture and art for future generations. Looking ahead,the proposed Trump budget for FY2018 reflects a set of priorities that if enacted would hurt families, tear communities apart, and undermine the very fabric that keeps America safe, strong, and successful. The president’s budget prioritizes tax cuts for the wealthy, a border wall with Mexico, and a massive defense spending increase to over $680 billion in 2018 alone. To pay for this shift in priorities the Trump White House would abandon families, vulnerable citizens in need, and local communities. The federal funds that flow to states, local governments, non-profits and even small businesses would be slashed. Education, housing, environmental protection, transit, health research – all slashed. A priority program here in Minnesota, the Low Income Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP), is eliminated. That would leave 140,000 Minnesota households – mostly seniors – literally in the cold. Nutrition assistance for children and needy families – slashed. Environmental programs are gutted – a 30% cut to EPA would result in 3,800 agency employees terminated. Federal funding for the Great Lakes Restoration is eliminated. As we know, the NEA, the NEH, IMLS, the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, Arts in Education are all proposed for elimination. Nearly 70 federal programs are eliminated in the Trump budget. The cost savings is insignificant in comparison to the terrible harm inflicted from destroying decades of partnerships, assistance, and economic opportunity resulting from valuable federal programs. In my view, this is a budget that is cruel, harmful, and literally eliminates the smart investments that help to keep our country growing and strong. Many of my Republican colleagues have said this budget is “dead on arrival.” I hope they are right. But I take this Trump budget seriously – we all better take the threat is represents seriously. Last year many of us didn’t take Mr. Trump seriously enough – too many Americans discounted the prospect of him being president – and here we are! Today, I want to hear why federal investment in culture, creativity, arts education, and citizen engagement are valuable to our nation. I want to know what would happen if these federal agencies and investments were terminated. What would be the consequence for our state and communities? I view this Trump budget as devastating for Minnesota. Here’s why: Our state a donor state – Minnesota receives less than $0.75 in federal spending for every $1 we pay in federal taxes. We are 49th among states in benefiting from defense spending. So, a massive increase to the Pentagon’s budget will have marginal impact in Minnesota.But, the Trump budget cuts directly target some of Minnesota’s great successes. We are an arts leader. We have amazing public broadcasting. Our libraries and museums are nationally admired. We are number on in the nation in national service – AmericaCorps, SeniorCorps and Conservation Corps. The list goes on and on. All the federal benefit from Minnesota’s leadership in these areas is eliminated in this budget. For me, this is about our quality of life. The arts, humanities, public broadcasting, our cultural institutions, and education system make this a great state to live in – they keep our communities whole, thriving and striving. These are among the amenities – necessities – that attract works to Minnesota and keep businesses in our state. We can’t solve our nation’s challenges with tax cuts and more bullets and bombs. We need creative, dynamic citizens who can think, dialogue, analyze and solve problems, ask questions and build a better America. So, we need to stop this White House from advancing this budget and I am going to work with my colleagues in Congress – Democrats and Responsible Republicans – to move appropriation bills forward that invest in America’s future, not harm it. You can count on me to support full federal funding for the arts and humanities. But, I am also determined to fight for all the Minnesota communities that are being shaped by the creativity and energy of artists and writers and thinkers and teachers and students and hard working Americans. Thank you for being here today and I look forward to hearing your stories and testimony.
05.26.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in observance of Memorial Day: “Since the end of the Civil War, Americans have set aside a day in May to commemorate our fallen American heroes. As the daughter of a World War II veteran, I know the sacrifices the women and men of our Armed Forces have made in service to our country. From the beaches of Normandy to the islands of the Pacific, from Korea to Vietnam, in Afghanistan and Iraq, and at a thousand points in between, our servicewomen and men have bravely defended our country and fought for our freedom. “As we observe Memorial Day, we remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our nation. We keep faith with the families, loved ones, comrades, and friends that they have left behind. At the same time, a grateful nation pays tribute to all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen serving our country today, to our veterans, and to our military families. As always, we remain humbled by your selfless devotion to the United States.”
05.25.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today received assurances from U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue that the Trump administration will proceed with the two-year, science-based study of whether dangerous copper-sulfide ore mining should be permitted on federal lands in the watershed that flows into Minnesota’s Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCAW). At the same House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee hearing, U.S. Forest Service Chief Tom Tidwell confirmed that copper-sulfide ore mining in water-intensive areas like the Boundary Waters is “challenging” and that the study could conclude that mining near the BWCAW “may be too hazardous.” “I very much appreciate that Secretary Perdue confirmed that the Trump administration will allow this important study to proceed and that Chief Tidwell acknowledged the serious risks that copper-sulfide mining can pose,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Minnesota’s Boundary Waters are a national treasure, and I look forward to working together with Secretary Perdue to ensure that we ‘do no harm’ to this pristine wilderness.” In December 2016, then-Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack and then-Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell denied the renewal of Twin Metals’ leases for copper-sulfide ore mining in the Superior National Forest bordering the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. The Forest Service at that time also submitted an application to the Secretary of the Interior to withdraw, for a period of 20 years, approximately 234,000 acres within the Superior National Forest from new mining leases. These public lands are all within the Rainy River Watershed, where an interconnected flow of lakes, streams, and wetlands drain into both the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and Voyageurs National Park before flowing north into Canada. A full transcript of the exchange between Congresswoman McCollum, Secretary Perdue, and Chief Tidwell is below. Video of the exchange is available here: Ms. McCOLLUM: Chief Tidwell, as you know, the Superior National Forest in Minnesota is the home of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness, which is a vast, interconnected network of pristine lakes and streams. This is an untarnished wilderness. It’s a national treasure. The Forest Service is responsible for protecting it. Hundreds of thousands of Americans who visit this wilderness every year are relying on your agency, as are more than 17,000 Minnesotans who work in the outdoor recreation industry in the northeastern region of our state. And I know that the Forest Service takes this responsibility seriously, because last year the Service denied the renewal of mining leases by a foreign-owned company that, as you said, posed an “unacceptable” risk. The rejection of these lease renewals noted that a copper-nickel sulfide mining “might cause serious and irreplaceable harm to this unique, iconic, and irreplaceable wilderness.” Multiple scientific assessments have shown that these sulfide-ore mines are sources of toxic contamination and acid drainage that would cause significant harm to the waterways, aquatic life, and the forests that make the BWCA such a special place. In fact, 92 percent - 92 percent - of these sulfide-ore copper mines operating in the United States have experienced failures that impact water quality. The pictures show what recently happened in 2014 in Canada, and Canada has some of the same stringent safeguards that we try to put in place. But 92 percent of these fail. So I really want to give a shout out to the Forest Service for the work you are currently doing with the Department of the Interior to conduct a two-year, science-based study to determine if approximately 230,000 acres of National Forest lands within the watershed of the Boundary Waters should be off-limits to sulfide-ore copper mining for the next 20 years. Last week, the Forest Service staff confirmed with my office that you are going to have an additional public meeting in the Twin Cities regarding this mining withdrawal. People from southern Minnesota, as well as the Twin Cities are very appreciative of the Forest Service doing this. You’ve had several hearings in northern Minnesota, but we really appreciate the ability for the folks in the Twin Cities to go forward. So I’m assuming this meeting is going forward. I’m asking you in public. But could you please talk about the potential consequences be for the wildlife, the waters, and the forests in the BWCA and the adjacent lands if there is a discharge, leakage or spill from a sulfide mine—all of which are common events for this industry? And I know that you are receiving phone calls and that you are receiving pressure from the mining industry. We have a rich tradition of mining in Minnesota and this is the only mining in Minnesota I’ve come out forcefully against, in part because of its location in the watershed. So could you please enlighten us on what you, and I’m going to include you Mr. Secretary, what you two gentlemen can do to ensure that this proposed study goes forward as planned so that we can have robust public participation, grounded in science and figuring out how to best preserve this pristine wilderness when 92 percent - even here in the United States - of these mines fail. And Mr. Perdue, I think you’ve seen what happened in Canada. Mr. PERDUE: Well, you’ve addressed your questions to him, if I may precede him in that because as I’ve said earlier, the buck stops here. I’m the U.S. Secretary of Agriculture and the U.S. Forest Service is under the Secretary of Agriculture. While we have a Chief Forester who knows the history of this and can address those specific questions, I want you to know that this is on my radar screen as well. Secretary Zinke and I have already met about this and I think your statement there regarding the two-year study over the sound science. None of us, I’m not smart enough to know to do without the facts base and the sound science and we are absolutely allowing that to proceed. You also know that your state has a shot at that after that recommendation, as well. So we are determined to proceed in that effort and let it run its course. No decision will be made prior to the conclusion of that. Ms. McCOLLUM: Well, thank you. Governor Dayton will be excited to hear that. Mr. PERDUE: He’s already well aware of his roles and responsibilities in that effort. Ms. McCOLLUM: Well he’s taken the state lands off. Thank you. Mr. TIDWELL: Well, the only thing I would add is that the study allows us to really pull together the information, the data and look at the overall balance. Mining is an essential part of multiple-use. It’s especially very important in your state, it’s also essential for this country. And we can have mining operations that are safe, environmentally safe. We have many that have proven to be able to do that that. You do raise the question about the sulfide-ore. That is more challenging, especially in areas where we have as much water as we do up in that part of the state. So this gives a chance to be able to pause, collect the information, to be able to visit, and really meet with the public. And it’s more to be able to take comments. We just want to be able to sit down with them and really hear from their concerns. And then as we move forward, to find that balance. The balance where mining needs to occur and it can be done in a safe, environmental way. And then if decisions need to be made for other areas, that it’s just potentially maybe too hazardous, then those are the types of decisions that can come out of this study. Ms. McCOLLUM: Well, I thank you gentlemen for your comments and I thank you for your reassurance to let the two-year study go forward. Mr. PERDUE: Let me give you maybe a principle that may help your feelings that way. While our motto is “do right and feed everyone,” as a veterinarian, I also ascribe to the Hippocratic Oath: “first of all, do no harm.” And we hear you loud and clear.
05.23.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s $3.6 trillion fiscal year 2018 budget proposal: “President Trump’s 2018 budget is a cruel and reckless plan that benefits billionaires, punishes the vulnerable, and abandons working families and small businesses. I strongly oppose this budget and will do everything I can to prevent its callous policies from becoming law. “This Trump budget pays for lavish tax breaks for billionaires by slashing federal support for public education, job training programs, scientific and medical research, transportation improvements, and environmental safeguards. These draconian cuts — inspired by ideology rather than reality — will inflict economic distress, human suffering, and higher levels of pollution on our families and communities. “Just as bad, this Republican budget rips apart the social safety net. Its cruel cuts will fall on vulnerable children, families, and seniors who rely on CHIP and Medicaid for health care, SNAP and Meals on Wheels for food, and heating assistance to keep warm in the winter. In a nation as prosperous as the United States, purposefully inflicting harm on vulnerable people is immoral. “We should be working together to build a stronger America for all our families, not just for big corporations, corporate executives, and the privileged few. To do that, I support strengthening our communities by making smart, sustainable investments in infrastructure, quality public schools, a healthy environment, and safe streets. “Last month, Democrats and Republicans passed a bipartisan omnibus appropriations bill to fund the federal government in 2017. The funding levels in that bill will be the baseline for me and my Democratic colleagues. I hope responsible Republicans will join us in rejecting this foolish Trump budget and instead advance a smart, sustainable, and forward-leaning budget that reflects our shared values as Minnesotans and Americans.”
05.17.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the Department of Justice appointed former FBI Director Robert S. Mueller III as a special counsel to lead the Trump-Russia investigation: “I commend the appointment of a special counsel to lead the investigation of Russian interference in the 2016 election and Russian ties to President Donald Trump and his associates. This appointment proves that the investigation is extremely serious. “Given that President Trump has already tried to stop and obstruct this investigation by pressuring and then firing former FBI Director James Comey, it is absolutely imperative that Mr. Mueller maintain complete independence. He must ensure that this investigation is conducted without limits and without any political interference from the White House or Congressional Republicans.”
05.17.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and House Democrats today signed a discharge petition to force a House vote on establishing an independent commission to investigate President Donald Trump, his associates, and their close ties to Russia. “Every day, we learn more about President Trump’s inappropriate conduct, whether it is interfering in pending FBI investigations of his administration or sharing state secrets with top Russian officials,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “The American people must have confidence in their leaders, which is why we need accountability and transparency about the Trump administration's many scandals. This will come only from an independent commission and a special prosecutor to investigate this out-of-control President.” The discharge petition Congresswoman McCollum signed today would force a House vote on the Protecting Our Democracy Act (H.R. 356), bipartisan legislation that establishes an outside, independent commission to investigate the Trump-Russia scandal. Thus far, Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wisc.) has refused to schedule a vote on the bipartisan bill and House Republicans have voted seven times to block its consideration in the House. Under the House's rules, if a majority of Representatives sign the petition, the bill will be brought up on the House Floor for a vote. “My Democratic colleagues and I are ready to create an independent commission, but we need Republican votes to do so. By refusing to take action to investigate President Trump, House Republican leadership has become part of the cover up,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “My Republican colleagues who care about protecting our democracy should join me in signing this discharge petition.” In addition to supporting the Protecting Our Democracy Act to establish an independent commission, Congresswoman McCollum supports: Appointment of a special prosecutor. The firing of Director Comey and the compromised status of Attorney General Jeff Sessions demonstrates that this administration cannot be trusted to investigate itself. Congresswoman McCollum supports the appointment of an independent special prosecutor. If the Justice Department refuses to appoint one, Congresswoman McCollum supports establishing a special prosecutor by legislation. Subpoenas and hearings into President Trump’s interference in the FBI investigation. With Director Comey’s memos suggesting President Trump attempted to obstruct and stop the FBI’s investigation, Congresswoman McCollum has called on House Republicans to issue subpoenas and conduct hearings into President Trump and his White House’s interference with the ongoing investigation of Trump, his associates, and Russia. Full briefing for the House on President Trump’s disclosure of state secrets to Russian officials. On Monday, Congresswoman McCollum described President Trump’s discussion of state secrets with senior Russian officials in the Oval Office as either grossly incompetent, extremely sinister, or both. The House must know how much damage President Trump’s recklessness caused to our national security. Legislation to force the release of President Trump’s tax returns. We will never fully know the extent of President Trump’s entanglements with Russia until we can examine his tax returns. Congresswoman McCollum is a co-sponsor of the Presidential Tax Transparency Act (H.R. 305) to force President Trump to drop his unprecedented insistence on secrecy and make his tax returns public.
05.16.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after The New York Times and other outlets reported that former FBI Director James Comey’s memos reveal President Donald Trump interfered in the FBI investigation of former Trump aide Michael Flynn: “President Donald Trump’s comments to then-Director Comey appear to be an attempt to obstruct and stop the criminal investigation of his disgraced National Security Advisor. “In addition to empowering a special prosecutor and independent commission to investigate Trump, his associates, and their close ties to Russia, Congress should now issue subpoenas and conduct hearings into President Trump and his White House’s interference with the FBI's ongoing investigation. “The failure of House and Senate Republicans to hold President Trump and his administration accountable raises a very serious question: Why are Congressional Republicans still covering up for this out-of-control President?”
05.15.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after The Washington Post and other news outlets reported that President Trump divulged state secrets to Russian officials during an Oval Office meeting last week: “President Donald Trump’s reckless disclosure of state secrets to senior Russian officials is profoundly disturbing. Leaking sensitive information provided by an American ally to the Russian Foreign Minister is either grossly incompetent or extremely sinister, or both. “It is long past time for a special prosecutor and an independent commission to investigate President Trump’s close ties to Russia and his reckless behavior with the Russians. If this very worrying news does not convince House Republicans to put country before party and hold President Trump accountable, what will?”
05.10.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement calling for a special prosecutor and an independent commission following President Donald Trump’s termination of FBI Director James Comey: “The Federal Bureau of Investigation is presently conducting a highly sensitive and consequential criminal investigation to determine whether President Donald Trump and his associates colluded with Russia to interfere with the 2016 presidential election. This is an investigation that could clear Mr. Trump and his associates of any wrongdoing or destroy Mr. Trump’s presidency. Either way, the American people deserve the facts and the truth. For President Trump to fire FBI Director James Comey at this critical juncture can only be viewed as a brazen act by the White House to undermine this investigation in the name of self-preservation. “After Mr. Trump’s meddling, the only legitimate path forward is for a special prosecutor to pursue this criminal investigation of Trump and his associates. Furthermore, Congress must establish and provide the necessary resources for a nonpartisan independent commission to follow the facts on Russian interference in our democracy. My Democratic colleagues and I are ready to put both a special prosecutor and an independent commission in place. The only thing standing in the way of transparency and accountability are House and Senate Republicans who continue to put party over country and are complicit in hiding the truth from the American people.”
05.09.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) made the following comments after President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey in the middle of an ongoing investigation into President Trump and his associates: "President Donald Trump’s unprecedented decision to fire FBI Director James Comey in the middle of an investigation of President Trump and his associates is a transparent attempt to obstruct justice. No one appointed by President Trump can now be trusted to either impartially investigate him and his associates or, if necessary, hold them accountable. "We urgently need a special prosecutor appointed to oversee a full and thorough investigation of President Trump, his associates, and their close ties to Russia. It is long past time for House and Senate Republicans to join Democrats in support an independent investigation into President Trump. Congressional Republicans who either endorse President Trump's firing of Director Comey or oppose an independent investigation are complicit in hiding the truth from the American people."
05.09.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today announced the winners of the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Lindsey Noyed of Concordia Academy in Roseville took first place for her artwork entitled "Evermore and Evermore." Rebecca Hed of Concordia Academy in Roseville and Nadia Porycky of Woodbury High School finished in a tie for second place, while Abigail Cheng of Woodbury High School finished third. The winning and runner-up entries can be viewed here. "The Fourth District has incredible artistic talent and I am proud to help showcase it through the Congressional Art Competition," Congresswoman McCollum said. "My office was wowed by the quality of all of this year's submissions. Congratulations to Lindsey, to the runners-up, and to everyone who participated." Beginning in June, the winning entry will be displayed as part of a national exhibit in the U.S. Capitol. In addition, Runners-up will be displayed in Congresswoman McCollum's offices in Saint Paul and in Washington, D.C. The competition was open to Fourth District high school students and attracted dozens of entries.
05.09.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) is joining House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi on a bipartisan Congressional delegation this week to India, Nepal, Germany and Belgium focusing on national security, the global economy, bilateral and multilateral relations, and human rights. On Tuesday, Congresswoman McCollum and the bipartisan delegation met with His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama. "With the credibility of American leadership in the world being questioned, it is absolutely critical for American policymakers to be engaging in dialogue with international counterparts, particularly to promote security cooperation, democracy, and human rights. This bipartisan congressional delegation, headed by Leader Nancy Pelosi, has been warmly received in Germany, Nepal and India,” Congresswoman McCollum said. "For me, it is a particularly profound honor to meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama, a leader who transcends the momentary discord of politics in pursuit of peace, justice, and dignity for all mankind.” Joining Congresswoman McCollum and Leader Pelosi on the delegation are Representatives Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.), Jim McGovern (D-Mass.), Judy Chu (D-Calif.), Joyce Beatty (D-Ohio), and Pramila Jayapal (D-Wash.).
05.04.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after House Republicans passed Trumpcare: “The passage of Trumpcare is a reflection of President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans’ values: they will abandon the sick and the vulnerable to give tax breaks to billionaires and big corporations. “This disastrous bill is an all-out attack on children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities. No Senate amendments will ever change that. As we move forward with the legislative process, I will keep fighting for affordable, quality health care for all Americans. We must protect our care.”
05.04.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on House Republicans’ Trumpcare bill, slated for a House vote this afternoon: “Every family, senior, and person with a disability in Minnesota will have their guaranteed benefits, coverage, and protections stripped away by this dangerous and cruel House Republican bill. It's not surprising that Republicans and President Trump want to provide the richest Americans and big corporations with a win as they destroy the Affordable Care Act. For working people and every day Americans, this bill takes us backwards. “Even though Minnesota’s uninsured rate at a historic low, this bill takes health insurance away from hundreds of thousands of Minnesotans, creates a multi-billion dollar budget hole for our state, and caps Medicaid coverage for vulnerable citizens, especially children, seniors, and people with disabilities. This bill is a total loser for Minnesota. Minnesotans can count on me to be a no vote this afternoon. Republicans who vote for it will be held accountable by their constituents.”
05.03.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following remarks on the House Floor today before the House passed the Fiscal Year 2017 government spending bill on a 309-118 vote: “I rise today in support of this bipartisan compromise to fund our federal government for the remainder of this Fiscal Year. “It is frustrating that the Trump Administration inserted itself into our Congressional funding negotiations last year, which unnecessarily delayed this bill for seven months. That delay created uncertainty and instability for the local governments, schools, businesses, and families we represent. “Nevertheless, the final funding package we have under consideration today is a win for Minnesotans and Americans. Democrats stood strong and united. That is why this bill does not include any funding for President Trump's wasteful border wall, which he wanted to pay for with cuts to priorities here at home. “As the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I am proud that we removed more than 75 poison pill riders from our part of the bill. These destructive policies would have delisted endangered species, rolled back environmental protections, and chipped away at our public lands. “In addition to removing these harmful Republican riders, Democrats also succeeded in holding off many devastating cuts proposed by the Trump Administration. We protected the EPA from steep cuts to its work to protect the air we breathe and the water we drink. We fully funded the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, to keep our lakes, and the communities that rely on them, healthy! We increased funding for the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities, which improves the quality of life across our nation. “This final bipartisan agreement will protect our environment, meet our trust and treaty obligations to Native Americans, and safeguard our natural and cultural heritage. “Sadly, the President’s 2018 budget would undo all this work, so we must stay vigilant. Today, however, I urge my colleagues to join me in voting for this balanced compromise that will move America forward.”
05.01.2017	A PDF version of this fact sheet is available here. This week, Congress will vote on a $1.07 trillion omnibus spending bill to fund the government through September 30, 2017. The bill provides $32.28 billion for functions under the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. “As lead Democrat on the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, my colleagues and I led the fight for our Democratic priorities in this critical bill. Because we stood strong for our values, this bill protects our environment, keeps our commitments to Native Americans, and safeguards our natural and cultural heritage,” Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) said. “Providing adequate funding for our priorities and removing Republican provisions that would have eroded environmental protections is a win for Minnesotans, Americans, and the values that we all share.” Protecting Our Environment The FY2017 omnibus bill includes $8.058 billion for the Environmental Protection Agency, protecting the agency’s workforce from cuts and limiting the overall budget cut to just 1 percent. The bill includes $2.257 billion for the Clean Water State Revolving Fund and the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, both of which help communities keep our water clean. The bill provides $300 million for the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative, which is helping with vital investments that protect the largest surface freshwater system in the world. The bill increases funding to $8.4 million for the Fish and Wildlife Service to control the spread of invasive Asian carp in American waterways like our Great Lakes. Dozens of harmful policy provisions pushed by House Republicans were removed, including those that would have delisted endangered species, rescinded environmental protections, and chipped away at our public lands. Keeping Our Commitments to Native Americans The FY2017 omnibus bill provides $2.860 billion for the Bureau of Indian Affairs, an increase of $64 million from the FY2016 level primarily focused on education, social services, and law enforcement. The bill includes $5.040 billion for the Indian Health Service, $232 million more than in FY2016, to help meet critical health care needs throughout Indian Country. The bill provides $48 million for the Indian Health Services Urban Indian Health program, an increase of $3 million for vital health services in urban communities across the United States. The bill includes $10 million for Tribal Historic Preservation Offices in order to assist tribes in preserving their sacred and historic places and artifacts. Safeguarding Our Natural and Cultural Heritage The FY2017 omnibus bill includes $2.932 billion for the National Park Service, an increase of $81 million from FY2016. The bill includes $150 million for the National Endowments for the Arts and $150 million for the National Endowment for the Humanities, vital cultural organizations that President Trump has proposed eliminating. For the first time since 2010, this bill includes $5 million for Save America’s Treasures, a top priority for Congresswoman McCollum which preserves of historic buildings, collections, documents and works of art critical to the cultural identity and character of the American people. In addition, the bill includes $13 million for grants to preserve African American civil rights movement sites and $4 million in grants to Historically Black Colleges and Universities to preserve sites and stories of the civil rights movement.
05.01.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on the fiscal year 2017 omnibus bill: “Last night, Congress reached a $1.07 trillion bipartisan agreement to fund our federal government through September 30, 2017. While Republican political game playing delayed this bill for seven months, it is nevertheless a win for Minnesotans and Americans. Because Democrats stood strong, the omnibus bill does not include President Donald Trump's dangerous spending cuts and immoral, wasteful border wall. That is a victory for the values we all share. “As the lead Democrat on the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I am particularly pleased that we secured adequate funding for the Environmental Protection Agency while stripping from the bill many Republican provisions that aimed to erode environmental safeguards. I am also proud that we funded the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities, organizations that President Trump wants to eliminate. “In the next few months, Congress will assemble a budget for the next fiscal year that begins on October 1. I will fight for a budget that looks like this bipartisan compromise, instead of President Trump's dystopian vision of an America weaker at home and isolated in the world.”
04.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) previewed President Donald Trump's Address to a Joint Session of Congress in a post on Medium: This Saturday marks President Donald Trump’s 100th day in the White House. Over the last 100 days, Mr. Trump’s policy proposals, irresponsible rhetoric, and controversial appointments have made our families and communities less secure, our businesses less confident about the future, and our nation more isolated in the world. Despite total Republican control of Congress, President Trump has been incapable of governing responsibly. Just this week — because of Republican dithering — Congress was forced to pass another stopgap spending bill to keep the government open for just seven days, denying Americans the certainty they deserve. The first 100 days have revealed a President who is proposing legislation and taking executive actions that hurt working Americans at every turn. TrumpCare, the Republicans’ disastrous health care bill, leaves 24 million Americans uninsured and causes out-of-pocket costs to skyrocket. It forces older Americans to pay higher premiums, rations health care for vulnerable children, seniors, and people with disabilities, and weakens the solvency of Medicare. Huge opposition from Democrats and active, engaged citizens has stopped this legislation for now, but Mr. Trump is still working to sabotage the Affordable Care Act. He has even threatened to cause the total collapse of our health care system and undermine the coverage we all depend on for purely political purposes. That is despicable. If working families were unsettled by Mr. Trump’s threat to their health care, his proposed budget shows just how far backwards he wants to take our country. He wants to slash job training programs, hurt American seniors by cutting Meals on Wheels, slow down our communities by gutting infrastructure funding, and eliminate important investments in health research, education, and the arts and humanities. And Mr. Trump’s backwards budget strips the Environmental Protection Agency of the resources it needs to protect public health and safety. As the Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I know that the attack on the EPA’s budget is just one part of Mr. Trump’s all-out war on clean air, clean water, and our public lands. In his first 100 days, Mr. Trump and EPA Administrator Scott Pruitt have undone protections for clean water, allowed the continued use of dangerous neurotoxins, and reversed clean air rules that help stem the threat of climate change. In doing so, they have repeated ignored the findings of their own scientists. Mr. Trump and Mr. Pruitt’s denials of climate science and pledges to withdraw the United States from the Paris Climate Agreement are transforming our nation from the global leader in combating climate change into an environmental rogue state. The only winners? Billionaires, the fossil fuel industry, and polluters that profit at the expense of our families, our communities, and our planet. Billionaires and big corporations are also the big winners in Mr. Trump’s so-called tax reform plan. His proposal amounts to a massive giveaway to the wealthiest Americans adding trillions to the federal debt and leaving working families holding the bag. Since Mr. Trump has broken with precedent and kept his tax returns secret, we can only speculate about how much he and his family businesses will benefit from his tax plan. In fact, until Mr. Trump releases his tax returns, a cloud of suspicion will hang over his entire White House. Given that Russia interfered in our electoral process to help Mr. Trump win the election and his first National Security Adviser, Michael Flynn, left amid a Russia-related scandal, Americans deserve a complete and independent investigation. Yet Congressional Republicans continue to cover up for President Trump and are still blocking accountability and transparency. Every time President Trump has made alarming decisions, from an unconstitutional ban on immigrants and refugees to attacks on women’s health care at home and abroad, millions of engaged Americans have spoken up and spoken out against his dangerous and divisive policies. In Minnesota, I have seen engaged citizens make their voices heard at my town hall meetings and vibrant demonstrations, like the Women’s March, the Tax March, and the March for Science. There is a consensus among the tens of thousands of Minnesotans I have spoken to: We want America to move forward and we will work to resist and stop Trump administration policies and proposals that take our nation backwards. After President Trump’s first 100 days, it is clear that we must join together to hold his White House accountable. In the next 100 days, and all the days that follow, I will keep standing alongside my constituents fighting for the values we believe in. Congresswoman Betty McCollum represents Minnesota’s Fourth District in the United States House of Representatives.
04.26.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s executive order undermining the Antiquities Act: “For more than a century, the Antiquities Act has served as the bedrock of our nation’s commitment to protecting and preserving our natural and cultural legacy. From early designations of the Grand Canyon and the Statue of Liberty to President Obama’s protection of the ancient and sacred sites of Bears Ears, the Antiquities Act has safeguarded iconic places for all Americans to enjoy. “President Donald Trump’s order is an attack on our public lands and national heritage. A review of the Antiquities Act and national monument designations is nothing but a pretext to remove protections from millions of acres of America’s public lands and expose them to exploitation by private interests. Eliminating or shrinking National Monuments revokes a commitment to the American people and threatens local economies. By taking this unprecedented step, President Trump is also opening the door for future Presidents to undo protections for iconic sites like Muir Woods, Pearl Harbor, or Minnesota’s own Pipestone and Grand Portage Monuments. “In the coming months, I am committed to working with my colleagues, conservation groups, and local stakeholders to stand up for our national monuments and to strongly oppose any attempts by President Trump and Congressional Republican leaders to tear away protections for places Americans hold dear.”
04.24.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined a crowd estimated in the tens of thousands at the March for Science Minnesota in St. Paul on Saturday, April 22. The non-partisan March for Science "focused on mobilizing against the unprecedented efforts to cut support of science, innovation, evidence-based policy making, and the efforts to censor fact in favor of opinion through gag-orders and media blackouts." After joining marchers, Congresswoman McCollum delivered the final remarks at the March for Science Minnesota. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum's remarks is below: Happy Earth Day everyone! Thank you citizens! Thank you scientists! Thank you citizen scientists! Today is about action to protect science! Today is about a movement to promote science! Today is about standing united to confront a destructive political agenda that promotes ignorance, denial, and dangerous “alternative facts,” otherwise known as lies! Let me put forward a hypothesis: if scientists are not politically active and engaged it is highly likely that the funding of scientific research will be slashed, scientists will be gagged or blacklisted, and, fake news and lies will trump the pursuit evidence based discovery. You are citizens. You are scientists. You are leaders! We need you active, engaged and mobilized. Elected officials, business leaders, and academic leaders must be held accountable. We need leaders who will defend scientific integrity and support advancing science. That is why we are marching today. Scientists all across America today, generations of American scientists before you, and the children who will be the scientists of tomorrow – this continuum of commitment, passion, and discovery are essential to our democracy, to our economy, and to making this world safer, healthier, and more prosperous for billions of people. Yet, we all know that science is under attack. And, we must fight back! So let me make a few evidence based political statements to challenge the current occupant of the White House: Climate change is real! Vaccines save lives! And, President Obama was born in the United States! We cannot allow the deniers, liars, or this White House to undermine the pursuit of knowledge through scientific discovery. This threat starts with President Trump proposing a 2018 budget with deep, harmful, and misguided cuts to scientific research at the NIH, NOAA, USGS, CDC, NASA, and DOE. I call this an assault on American leadership. Friends, this is a real fight and Congress needs to hear your voices! As a Member of Congress and a policy-maker, I want the best science, the best information, and I want to listen and learn from the women and men who are asking the tough questions, seeking discovery, and making the breakthroughs. I want scientists from other parts of the world coming to the United States to study at our universities, to share research, and expand knowledge. That includes welcoming Muslim scientists to America, not banning them! Friends, we must stand together to protect our planet, improve human health, innovate to grow our economy, and help feed 7 billion people. Science is the process by which humankind advances. Scientific knowledge is the gift we give the next generation and it must be the foundation of our children’s education. But it is scientists as citizens – active, engaged and passionate citizens – who must confront the ignorance and arrogance of the politicians and the powerful who are attacking science for power and profit. This is the fight! We are marching to protect science and we are lobbying to invest in science. We need your voices here at the State Capitol, in the halls of the U.S. Capitol, and across this land. Thank you!
04.21.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), the lead Democrat on the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement ahead of the global celebration of Earth Day on Saturday, April 22: “As we celebrate Earth Day, we reflect on environmental challenges in our communities and around the world. This year, our air, our water, our treasured places, and even the health of our planet are under attack from President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans. “In its first 100 days, the Trump administration has rescinded critical clean water and clean air protections, ignored science and allowed toxic chemicals in our water, and is abandoning our global commitments to address the threat of climate change. President Trump has shown just how little he values the environment by proposing severe budget cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency. “If President Trump and Congressional Republicans’ get their way, we will go back to the days of festering toxic waste sites, burning rivers, and smog enveloping our major cities. To keep this nightmare from becoming our reality, we must stand together as Americans and speak out for clean air, clean water, protection of public lands — including Minnesota’s Boundary Waters— and action on climate change. Our Earth depends on it.”
04.11.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum’s Saint Paul office will be closed Friday, April 28 and Monday, May 1 to facilitate a move to a new location: 661 LaSalle Street, #110, Saint Paul, MN 55114 Congresswoman McCollum’s new office will reopen on Tuesday, May 2. During the transition, constituents may contact the Washington office: 202-225-6631 (phone), 202-225-1968 (fax). Following the move, Minnesota phone and fax numbers will remain the same: 651-224-9191 (phone), 651-224-3056 (fax). “The Summit-University neighborhood has been a tremendous home for my Fourth District constituent services office for the past 16 years. While I regret that market forces have made this move necessary, I look forward to being part of Saint Paul’s vibrant Creative Enterprise Zone, and joining the dynamic mix of residents, arts organizations, nonprofits, and small businesses that are investing in this exciting area,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Serving residents of the Fourth District means being accessible to all and I am pleased that this new office will be reached easily by multiple transit lines, including Metro Green Line LRT. As with my current office, free parking will be available for those traveling by car.” Directions to 661 LaSalle Street, Saint Paul 55114: Via MetroTransit: Green Line LRT Raymond Avenue Station 16, 63, 67, 87 buses Via I-94: Exit 280/University toward University Ave. RIGHT on Franklin Ave. RIGHT on University Ave. RIGHT on LaSalle St.
04.07.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the U.S. military launched airstrikes against a Syrian government airfield in response to the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons against civilians: “The Syrian military's use of chemical weapons against civilians was a heinous violation of human rights and international norms and, alongside the more than 400,000 dead in the Syrian civil war, another example of the Assad regime's crimes against humanity. The U.S. airstrike ordered by President Donald Trump against Syria's Shayrat airfield was a restrained and limited response. However, President Trump's show of force will likely have no real effect on the disastrous civil war that continues to rage in Syria, where both the Assad regime and ISIS control regions within a divided country. “President Trump must be fully transparent with Congress and the American people about his plans for expanding the U.S. military's role in the Syrian conflict. There are currently as many as 1,000 U.S. special forces inside Syria battling ISIS. American drone strikes against targets in Syria recently left scores of civilians dead, according to media reports. With this strike, it is clear that the Trump administration is expanding U.S. military involvement in Syria. It is absolutely imperative that President Trump come to Congress to ask for the legal authority to use additional military force in Syria – setting clearly defined parameters for American involvement. In 2013, Congress rejected President Obama's request for authorization to conduct limited strikes against the Assad regime following chemical attacks on civilians. The failure of Republicans and Democrats in Congress to support President Obama gave Assad a green light to use these weapons again. “The United States, working with our international allies and partners, needs a comprehensive plan to address the Syrian regime's barbaric acts while keeping innocent Syrians safe. The need to coordinate with our allies and partners is made even more obvious by the fact the Russian government were either complicit or willfully ignorant as this chemical attack took place. President Trump must hold Russian President Putin accountable for enabling the Assad regime’s crimes. In addition, a comprehensive diplomatic and humanitarian plan to address the Syrian crisis must include the admission of Syrian refugees into the United States, something that President Trump extinguished with his discriminatory and bigoted ban on Muslim immigration. “I urge Speaker Paul Ryan to immediately call the U.S. House of Representatives back into session. Now is not the time for Congress to be in recess for two weeks. Congress must fully debate the Trump administration's military actions in Syria and set clear limits on the use of U.S. troops and military action in accord with our responsibilities under the Constitution.”
04.05.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum invites high school students in Minnesota’s Fourth Congressional District to participate in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition. Submissions are due on Friday, April 21, 2017 by 4:30 p.m. “Minnesota is a national arts leader, and I am thrilled to recognize the creativity and talent of our young artists through this contest,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “As an ex-officio member of the National Council on the Arts, which is the advisory board to the National Endowment for the Arts, I am privileged to share Minnesota's leadership, commitment, and excellence in the arts with the nation.” The contest is open to all high school students either attending school in or residing in the Fourth Congressional District (Ramsey County and Washington County). Due to a significant delay by Congressional Art Competition organizers in Washington, D.C. in announcing the 2017 contest, entries this year must be submitted digitally no later than 4:30 p.m. on Friday, April 21, 2017. Digital images should be submitted as a JPEG clearly showing the entire work of art. Entries must be e-mailed to MN04Arts@mail.house.gov. Only one submission per student is allowed. Students are also encouraged to submit a written paragraph discussing their work. (Full guidelines and competition submission forms are available here.) The winning entry from the Fourth District will be displayed as part of a national exhibit in the U.S. Capitol. The winner will also receive two free airline tickets to Washington, D.C. to attend the exhibits opening in June. Runners-up will be displayed in my congressional offices in St. Paul and in Washington, D.C. Because the of the shortened competition schedule, Congresswoman McCollum will announce the winners of the competition on Friday, May 5, 2017 via e-mail and social media. Complete guidelines and competition submission forms are available here. Teachers and students are encouraged to contact Congresswoman McCollum's office at 651-224-9191 with any questions.
04.04.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today marked Equal Pay Day and co-sponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation that would enforce equal pay for women. “It is unbelievable that today, in 2017, Minnesota women earn just 81 cents for every dollar a man makes. Women deserve equal pay for equal work.” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I strongly support the Paycheck Fairness Act, legislation that enforces equal pay for women. It is time Congressional Republicans to finally support this important bill.” The Paycheck Fairness Act strengthens and closes loopholes in the Equal Pay Act of 1963 by holding employers accountable for discriminatory practices, ending the practice of pay secrecy, easing workers’ ability to individually or jointly challenge pay discrimination, and strengthening the available remedies for wronged employees. Congressional Republicans have blocked the passage of the Paycheck Fairness Act since 2008. Equal Pay Day symbolizes the date when women’s wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. Despite making up half the workforce, more than five decades after the passage of the Equal Pay Act of 1963, Minnesota woman earn 81 cents, on average, for every dollar earned by a man. The gap is even wider for women of color.
03.30.2017	On Tuesday, April 11, 2017, Congresswoman Betty McCollum’s (MN-04) office will host an informational event to discuss the nomination process and application requirements for admission to a U.S. Service Academy. WHO: Guest speakers will include representatives from: U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland WHAT: Information session about U.S. Service Academy educational opportunities, application and nomination process. WHEN: Tuesday, April 11, 2017 6:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. WHERE: Mounds View High School, The Forum 1900 Lake Valentine Road, Arden Hills, MN 55112 Every year Members of Congress nominate qualified individuals as candidates from the districts they represent. Final appointment selections are made by each service academy. Congresswoman McCollum will begin accepting applications July 1, 2017 for nominations to the academies from interested students from the Fourth Congressional District. The application deadline is Monday, November 6, 2017. During Academy Information Night, students will have an opportunity to ask questions, discuss the application process, and learn more about the programs, opportunities, and life at the academies. Materials and nomination forms will be available to interested individuals at the information session. The information session is open to anyone interested in attending a U.S. Service Academy. However, Congresswoman McCollum can only nominate individuals from the Fourth Congressional District. Other Congressional offices have been invited to outline the nomination processes in their respective offices and information will be available to determine the congressional district where you reside, and how to contact other offices. In addition, the nomination requirements and application form are available on Congresswoman McCollum's website, https://www.mcollum.house.gov. Questions about this event may be directed to Connie Haddeland, Academy Coordinator, Office of Congresswoman McCollum, 651-224-9191.
03.29.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee — which funds the Environmental Protection Agency, spoke today on the House Floor against House Republicans’ H.R. 1430, a bill that prevents the EPA from functioning effectively and using the best scientific data available. “This legislation interferes with the use of sound science and creates obstacles that stop the EPA from enforcing the law. This bill is just one part of President Trump and Congressional Republicans’ attacks on science and our environment,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “We cannot go backwards. I urge my colleagues to reject this bill and other Republican efforts to weaken environmental protections. We must put public health and scientific integrity before polluters' profits.” Full video of Congresswoman McCollum’s remarks is available here. Congresswoman McCollum’s full remarks are below: “I rise in opposition to H.R. 1430, which makes it harder for the Environmental Protection Agency to do its job. “This bill would bring the EPA’s work to a halt, undermining protection of Americans’ health and safety. “This legislation interferes with the use of sound science and creates obstacles that stop the EPA from enforcing the law. “This bill is just one part of President Trump and Congressional Republicans’ attacks on science and our environment. “Shortly after the inauguration, the Trump administration removed taxpayer-funded scientific data from public websites. That’s not open, that’s not honest, and that’s not fair to taxpayers. “This month, President Trump proposed dramatic budget cuts that would make it impossible for the EPA to enforce clean air and clean water laws. “Yesterday, President Trump rescinded the Clean Power Plan, paving the way for more air pollution. “We cannot go backwards. I urge my colleagues to reject this bill and other Republican efforts to weaken environmental protections. We must put public health and scientific integrity before polluters' profits.”
03.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s executive order attacking environmental and public health protections: “President Trump’s executive order abandons American leadership to combat climate change, protect public health, and build the green economy of tomorrow. With this order, the Trump administration has transformed the United States into an environmental rogue state. This is a deeply misguided decision driven by corporate polluters and climate deniers. “This order will lead to increased air pollution, making Americans sicker and causing more premature deaths. At the same time, dismantling the Clean Power Plan and ignoring the costs of climate change will stifle innovation and clean energy technology, costing Americans jobs now and in the future. “President Trump’s order is politics at its worst: putting polluters’ profits before national security, public health, and future economic growth.”
03.24.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after Speaker Paul Ryan pulled TrumpCare rather than face certain defeat in the House of Representatives: “Congress heard the American people loud and clear: They don’t want Republicans to take away their health care. “I am proud of the way House Democrats stood united to protect our children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities from TrumpCare. Our fight is not over and I will strongly resist all Republican efforts, either by legislation or regulation, to undermine the health care Minnesotans and Americans depend on. “The developments of the past few days, as President Trump and House Republicans retreated in chaos, offer a powerful lesson: when the American people speak out, we can stop President Trump and Republicans’ backwards agenda.”
03.24.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on the House Floor this morning as the House prepares to consider TrumpCare. Video of Congresswoman McCollum’s remarks is available here. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s remarks is below: Mr. Speaker, TrumpCare is a disaster for children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities. The bill we are considering today has been strong-armed through this House, with no public hearings. Today as we vote, we do not have an updated estimated cost from the Congressional Budget Office. But here’s what we do know: Under TrumpCare, families will pay more for their insurance premiums and their deductibles. Under TrumpCare, older Americans will be forced to pay higher insurance premiums — five times higher than what others pay. Under TrumpCare, health care for vulnerable children, seniors, and people with disabilities will be rationed. Unbelievably, TrumpCare even attacks the solvency of Medicare. It will be weakened by giving big tax breaks to billionaires. TrumpCare was made even worse overnight. Now insurance companies will be able to sell policies that exclude basic health care like cancer screenings, preventive care, and even some hospitalizations. Mr. Speaker, this is not a health care bill, it is a prescription for disaster. I urge my colleagues to strongly oppose TrumpCare.
03.23.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after House Republicans invoked “martial law” authority to advance their health care bill on the House Floor: “Despite massive opposition within Congress and around the country, House Republicans voted tonight to advance their disastrous health care bill. Under this ‘martial law’ authority, Speaker Ryan will now be able to bring this bill to the floor without giving Congress or the American people any chance to see it or understand its effects in advance. “No matter how hard they try to keep the American people in the dark, President Trump and Congressional Republicans cannot hide the terrible reality of this bill. I have heard from thousands of my constituents and opposition to this bill is nearly unanimous. I stand with them and millions of Americans as a strong no vote on this prescription for disaster.”
03.22.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released a video update to Minnesota’s Fourth District on Wednesday warning constituents that House Republicans’ health care bill spells disaster for Minnesota children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities. “President Trump and Speaker Ryan are rushing because Minnesotans and Americans continue to learn how harmful this bill really is,” Congresswoman McCollum said in the video update. “I’ve heard from many people in our district and around our country. We all understand that the House Republicans' health care bill is a disaster for our families, friends, neighbors, and co-workers.” Congresswoman McCollum strongly opposes the House Republicans’ bill, the so-called American Health Care Act. Independent analysis has found that the bill will leave 24 million more Americans uninsured, cause insurance premiums to increase – especially for seniors, lead to rationing of Medicaid, and weaken Medicare. “I will be voting NO tomorrow, as will my House Democratic colleagues,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Now is the time for Republicans to reject this horrible health care bill and instead work with us to guarantee all Americans have quality, affordable health care.” The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s video update is below: Hello, I’m Congresswoman Betty McCollum and I want to give you an update on health care. House Republicans are working right now force their bill through the House tomorrow. President Trump and Speaker Ryan are rushing because Minnesotans and Americans continue to learn how harmful this bill really is. At least 24 million Americans will lose health insurance. Older Americans will be forced to pay higher premiums for their coverage. Medicaid will be gutted, meaning rationed health care for children, seniors, and people with disabilities. And Medicare will be weakened, jeopardizing benefits for seniors. The only winners? Billionaires and insurance company executives who get massive tax breaks from this Republican bill. I’ve heard from many people in our district and around our country. We all understand that House Republicans' health care bill is a disaster for our families, friends, neighbors, and co-workers. I will be voting NO tomorrow, as will my House Democratic colleagues. But we cannot do it alone. Now is the time for Republicans to reject this horrible health care bill and instead work with us to guarantee all Americans have quality, affordable health care.
03.20.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will hold a town hall meeting on Saturday, March 25 on the campus of Macalester College. This town hall is the fifth public meeting that Congresswoman McCollum has organized so far this year. “President Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans are planning to force their disastrous health care bill through the House this week,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This town hall meeting will be an opportunity for you to ask questions and share concerns about health care and other important issues.” WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum WHAT: A town hall meeting with Fourth District constituents WHEN: Saturday, March 25 from 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. WHERE: Alexander G. Hill Ballroom, Kagin Commons, Macalester College, 21 Snelling Avenue South, St. Paul, Minnesota The meeting is free and open to the public. Parking will be available in Macalester lots for the event. In addition, the Kagin Commons is well served by public transportation, with the 63, 84, and A-Line Buses all passing by the venue. Questions may be directed to Congresswoman McCollum’s St. Paul office, 651-224-9191.
03.17.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) sent the following alert on House Republicans' disastrous health care bill to Fourth District constituents in her March 17, 2017 enewsletter: House Republicans’ health care bill is a disaster for Minnesotans and Americans. At least 24 million more Americans will be left uninsured by 2026, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office. Out-of-pocket costs and deductibles will increase. Astoundingly, the bill does all this in order to give billionaires a massive tax cut. The impact on Minnesota will be especially severe. If this Republican bill becomes law, coverage for 1.2 million Minnesota children, seniors, and people with disabilities who get health care through Medicaid and MinnesotaCare is at risk. These cuts grow over time, ultimately costing our state tens of billions of dollars and jeopardizing care for the most vulnerable Minnesotans. President Trump and Congressional Republicans have responded to these horrific projections without batting an eye. Shamefully, they simply do not care about the Americans who will be abandoned, broken, and bankrupt because of their bill. They are more concerned about ensuring that health insurance and pharmaceutical executives reap huge profits than they are about insuring Minnesotans and Americans. In fact, House Republicans are charging full steam ahead in trying to force this bad bill on the American people. After jamming it through the House Energy and Commerce, Ways and Means, and Budget Committees in the past two weeks, they are planning to bring it to the House Floor on Thursday. This bill is a prescription for disaster for our children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities. I am committed to working together with my House Democratic colleagues and the rising voices of citizens and advocates across America to oppose this Republican bill and the nightmare it will cause.
03.16.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget proposal and its impact on Minnesota: “Minnesota cities, counties, and nonprofits will all feel the devastating effects of President Donald Trump’s backwards budget. With these harsh cuts — and the outright elimination of many programs — the Trump administration is abandoning our communities and our state. This budget shifts to Minnesota taxpayers the burden for keeping our state safe, strong, and moving forward. “The elimination of assistance for local law enforcement and the slashing of environmental protection funding will put the public safety and health of Minnesotans at risk. Public school students will suffer from cuts to local school districts and after-school programs. Seniors and nonprofits will no longer be able to count on national service volunteers. “Critical investments in our future will be canceled. Improvements to our roads and highways will cease. Job training programs will be cast aside. Support for affordable housing and economic development will be zeroed out. Low-income children, families, and seniors will be left in the cold when their heating and home weatherization assistance is terminated. “Local and state government leaders, as well as our business, faith, and nonprofit communities, will be hit first and hardest by these cuts. Their voices are much needed now. At the same time, the House Republican majority owns this budget. As the cut’s devastating impacts on Minnesota become clear, Republicans must decide whether they will stand with President Trump or with Minnesotans.”
03.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimated that House Republicans’ health care bill will cause 24 million more Americans to be uninsured by 2026 and lead insurance premiums to increase: “Today’s report confirms that Congressional Republicans and President Trump’s health care bill is a mean-spirited and callous prescription for disaster that hurts working families, seniors, and the most vulnerable Americans. “This Republican bill will shred the safety net that tens of millions of families rely on when a loved one is sick. It will cause insurance premiums to increase, hurting the economic security of millions of American families. It will cut nearly $900 billion from Medicaid, slashing the health care that low-income Americans, seniors, and people with disabilities rely on. And it will cause many women to lose access to comprehensive health care. “I don’t understand what motivates them, but it is clear that Congressional Republicans and President Trump don’t care about the Americans who will be abandoned, broken, and bankrupt because of this bill. Health insurance and pharmaceutical executives will reap huge profits, while 24 million more Americans will be one illness or injury away from ruin. “The Congressional Budget Office has given the American people a glimpse into the nightmare this Republican bill will cause. It is time for citizens to stop this disastrous bill before that nightmare becomes our reality.”
03.10.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum sent the following newsletter to Fourth District citizens on Friday, March 10 about House Republicans' disastrous health care bill and her work to protect health care for families in Minnesota and throughout the United States: Dear Neighbor: The Republican majority in the U.S. House of Representatives this week unveiled a bill to replace the Affordable Care Act (ACA). Instead of considering this major legislation under a process that is open and transparent for the American people, House Republicans are trying to quickly jam this controversial bill through Congress. Despite neither holding public hearings nor giving the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) enough time to determine the bill's cost or its consequences for the American people, Republicans have already passed this legislation through two House committees. Even without a complete analysis, we know that this Republican “repeal and replace” bill is devastating for millions of children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities across the United States. Minnesotans and Americans are rightly concerned. I am completely committed to standing united with my Democratic colleagues and advocates for patients, health care providers, and families to stop Republicans from reducing, stripping away, or denying health care coverage to Americans. If enacted, this legislation will lead to disastrous outcomes: Millions more Americans will be uninsured. The GOP bill replaces the tax credits that help millions of Americans pay for health insurance. It also effectively terminates Medicaid expansion, cutting coverage for millions more. The nonpartisan Brookings Institution estimates that at least 15 million more Americans will lose coverage. Higher costs for families and older Americans. The GOP bill will increase out-of-pocket costs for premiums and deductibles by hundreds or thousands of dollars. Protections that limit what insurance companies can charge older Americans will be severely weakened. Rationed care for millions of seniors, people with disabilities, and low-income Americans on Medicaid. The GOP bill caps Medicaid payments, leading to reduced or rationed care for seniors with long-term care needs, people with disabilities, pregnant women, and vulnerable children. A weaker Medicare. In order to slash taxes for billionaires, the GOP bill cuts vital funding streams for Medicare shortening the life of the Medicare Trust Fund. Attacks on women’s health care and defunding of Planned Parenthood. The GOP bill includes restrictions on comprehensive health coverage and defunds health care at Planned Parenthood. Massive tax giveaways to billionaires. The GOP bill gives the 400 highest-income taxpayers annual tax cuts averaging about $7 million each. A headline in the St. Paul Pioneer Press summed it up: “The GOP health bill adds up to tax cut for the rich.” Healthcare professionals, patient advocates, and experts have rejected this disastrous legislation. Leading organizations representing America’s hospitals, doctors, nurses, patients, and families all strongly oppose this Republican hijacking of health care. Most importantly, I have heard from Fourth District constituents — our friends, neighbors, and co-workers — whose lives are better because of the Affordable Care Act. I support making needed reforms and improvements to that law to ensure that every American has affordable, quality health care. This Republican bill does not do that. Instead, their proposal takes us backwards. It causes real harm to tens of millions of Americans and does nothing to make health care better or more affordable. Now is the time to speak out. To protect our health care, Minnesotans and Americans must stand together. We must work together to defeat this backwards Republican bill. Sincerely, Betty McCollum
03.09.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on the House Floor today against H.R. 985, the so-called Furthering Asbestos Claim Transparency (FACT) Act, a bill that makes it harder for asbestos victims to hold corporate wrongdoers accountable and that irretrievably releases the personal information of asbestos victims on the Internet. Congresswoman McCollum delivered the following remarks against H.R. 985: Asbestos is a deadly poison that can cause lung cancer and mesothelioma. Once detected, these patients survive only, on average, for only eight to fourteen months. This was true for Congressman Bruce Vento, who proudly served the families of the Fourth District of Minnesota for more than twenty-three years in this House. Bruce was a friend, and he died from mesothelioma eight and a half months after he was diagnosed. Congress has a responsibility to find real solutions to support mesothelioma victims and their families. But H.R. 985 would not support the families. In fact, it exposes families at a time of great vulnerability. It exposes them by putting their identity, their name, their address, and the last four digits of their social security number on a public website, when this information is already available in a confidential manner. It is especially outrageous to me that once again this legislation is on the floor and it fails to protect children who are victims of asbestos exposure from having their information shared in public. Parents should have the peace of mind knowing that their child’s privacy is secure and not on the internet where who-knows-who could possibly prey on them. I ask all my colleagues to stand with the mesothelioma victims, stand with their families, stand with their children, and oppose this bill, as they have asked us to do. Thank you Mr. Chair, I yield back.
03.06.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after House Republicans announced their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: "It is now obvious why House Republicans waited until the last minute to reveal their bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: Their bill takes us backwards and gives more control over our health care to big drug and insurance companies. “This Republican bill jeopardizes care for tens of millions of children, families, seniors, and people with disabilities. It will lead to higher costs for working families across America and cut billions of dollars in funding for Minnesota and other states. "To protect our care, we must stand together as Americans and reject this backwards Republican proposal. As a nation, we must work together to improve the Affordable Care Act and ensure that every American has access to affordable, quality care."
03.06.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s immigration order: “President Donald Trump’s new executive order on immigration and refugees is nothing but a repackaged version of a bigoted policy that numerous federal courts already struck down. “No matter what political spin President Trump and his administration put on this action, the facts are clear: it turns our backs on vulnerable refugee families, discriminates against Muslims, betrays our values as Americans, and embarrasses our country around the world. “I will continue to stand alongside millions of Americans from all walks of life against President Trump’s discriminatory policies. It is long past time for House Republicans to come off the sidelines, speak up for our values, and stand up to President Trump.”
03.06.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum received the International Institute of Minnesota's Olga Zoltai Award for Service to New Americans on Sunday, March 5, 2017 at the Institute's International Women's Day Tea. The award, which honors distinguished service to New Americans, memorializes the life and work of Olga Zoltai. Congresswoman McCollum delivered the following remarks after receiving the award: Thank you for this very, very special award, Kitty (Kitty Gogins, International Institute of Minnesota Board President and daughter of Olga Zoltai). I am humbled to receive this award honoring the legacy of your mother and her life’s work. Thank you, Kitty. I don’t know what it feels like to be a refugee. I do not know the fear, the pain, the loss, the heartache of losing one’s country, community, and everything familiar. What I do know, what I feel in my heart and my soul, is that I want the United States of America to be a country that welcomes refugees with open arms. I want this country to be a land of peace, opportunity, and healing for all who seek refuge here. Olga Zoltai was a refugee from Hungary. The experience of fleeing her country and resettling in the United States was part of her life experience. And, she found a home in the United States – here in Minnesota. And, here at the International Institute of Minnesota (IIM). Olga dedicated her life to welcoming refugees. She helped establish the foundation that has made IIM an organization that radiates hope, opportunity, and new beginnings. The fact that Olga and the staff here at IIM have welcomed more than 25,000 refugees to Minnesota over the years is amazing. Kitty, your mother helped shape the wonderful, dynamic, vibrant, diverse character of Minnesota and we are all better for it. Over the years I have the opportunity to work with Jane (Jane Gruapman, IIM Executive Director) and her excellent staff here at IIM. Whether it is ESL classes or job training, life skills or nursing assistant courses, IIM is transforming lives, strengthening our community, and contributing to a more peaceful world. Jane – thank you for all you and your team do! Your work and impact is profound and I am deeply appreciative of your work. Today, we gather here to commemorate the United Nation International Women’s Day by honoring the extraordinary women and girls here in this country and around the world. As your Member of Congress, I am 100% committed to fight for women’s rights at home and abroad. And, I am 100% committed to fight for human rights and the rights of refugees – here in the United States and around the world. Throughout my career in Congress I have made the rights of women and girls a priority. If we want a more peaceful, prosperous world, a world where children are healthy and families are strong, then let us invest in women and girls. The United States is the wealthiest nation on Earth. We must be investing in women and girls, not cutting funding and assistance that saves lives, protects the vulnerable and builds better futures. Empowering women and girls is not controversial, it is essential. It means giving every girl the opportunity she deserves – the right – to go to school and receive an education. It means eliminating discrimination, exploitation and violence against women and girls – whether it be trafficking, forced marriage of girls, or pay discrimination right here in the United States. Empowering women means access to employment, healthcare, and safe childcare. And, empowering women means asking a room full of women to think about standing up and be leaders – maybe running for elected office one day – for school board, city council, mayor, the state legislature, or the even the U.S. Congress. I am sure that each of us here today is very concerned about new policies that are coming out of this White House that impact refugees. In my view, these policies are a betrayal of America’s values and the core beliefs that make this a great country. We must resist these close minded and harmful policies. We must resist in Congress, in the courts, and in our communities. But it is also critical to continue to be welcoming, caring and embracing of all New Americans. It is more important than ever. There is amazing strength and perseverance in each and every refugee story. The millions women, men and children who have found their way to America have made this country better. Their courage must now be our courage as we resist isolationism, bigotry, and the scapegoating of good people seeking freedom and a new life in America. Olga Zoltai was a refugee who dedicated her life to welcoming refugees. Olga’s work is now our work and must continue this important work the same passion and commitment. Thank you for this very special award – I will treasure it. And, I will carry Olga in my heart as we fight to keep America a country that welcomes refugees and strives to offer hope, opportunity and freedom to all people. Thank you, Kitty. Thank you, Jane. And, thank you to everyone here today.
03.03.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) this week introduced legislation to prevent the Trump administration from either destroying or revoking public access to scientific data produced by the federal government. “The American people fund some of the best scientific research in the world,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “As taxpayers, we expect that data to become part of the scientific record and to inform public debates, not be destroyed or hidden on the whims of Washington politicians.” After President Trump took office, his administration removed taxpayer-funded data and records from government websites and limited federal scientists from communicating scientific facts to the public. Scientists across the country have scrambled to download data from government websites in fear of losing access forever. The Save America’s Science Act, H.R. 1232, requires the preservation of government data assets and ensures that scientific data available to the public now remains accessible. This bill amends the Federal Records Act to clarify that data assets must be preserved like all other records. “Scientific data is not partisan and access to taxpayer-funded data should not depend on which party controls the White House,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Congress has a duty to ensure that taxpayer-funded scientific data is preserved and available to the public.”
03.02.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement calling for President Donald Trump to fire Attorney General Jeff Sessions: “Attorney General Jeff Sessions deceived both his colleagues in the Senate and the American people about his contacts with the Russian government. Just over a month into his term, President Donald Trump’s entire administration has been engulfed in scandal over communications with Russian officials and misleading the public about them. “Given this deception, President Trump should immediately fire Attorney General Sessions. A special prosecutor should be appointed to conduct a comprehensive criminal investigation. “At the same time, it is obvious that the Trump administration cannot be trusted to investigate itself. Congressional Republicans must launch an immediate, bipartisan inquiry into President Trump and his associates’ contacts with Russia. It is long past time for Congressional Republicans to put country before party, stop the Trump administration’s cover-up, and get to the bottom of the scandals that have already tarred this Presidency.”
02.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump's address to Congress: "Tonight President Trump gave the American people another speech filled with dangerous policies and empty promises. “As I’ve listened to my Minnesota constituents, I’ve heard two things: they don’t trust President Trump’s agenda and they are fearful of the direction he is taking our country. Tonight President Trump doubled down on that wrong direction, proposing to strip Minnesotans of their health care, put Wall Street before working families, target vulnerable refugees, and abandon American leadership around the world. “The priorities offered by President Trump and supported by the Republican Congress take America backwards. My Democratic colleagues in the House and Senate are ready to stand and fight. Yet it will take not only Congressmen and Senators, but citizen action to reject these policies. As we prepare to move America forward, we must come together and defeat the Trump-Republican agenda.”
02.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, and House Democrats used Tuesday’s Subcommittee’s Members’ Day hearing to speak out strongly against cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and to oppose cuts to the arts and humanities. “President Donald Trump's proposal for a devastating 25 percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency is foolhardy and completely unacceptable,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “House Democrats will stand strong against President Trump’s backwards budget. We must protect the health and safety of our families by safeguarding clean air and clean water.” Recent media reports have also indicated that the Trump administration is contemplating entirely eliminating funding for the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). “The National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities support vibrant cultural and educational opportunities for people of all ages that bind us together as one Nation and one people,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “We must come together to stop President Trump from slashing this important investment in jobs, education, and our quality of life.” As part of the Subcommittee’s Members’ Day, House Democrats highlighted key programs at the EPA, the NEA, and the NEH that help keep American communities safe, strong, and moving forward: EPA’s Safe Drinking Water Programs, Cleanup Grants Are Vital Representative Sheila Jackson-Lee (D-Texas) addressed the Subcommittee on a variety of issues, including safe drinking water, clean air and land, and environmental justice. “The EPA’s Drinking Water State Revolving Fund is critical as it helps communities maintain safe and effective water infrastructure and affords states the flexibility to fund their highest-priorities,” Representative Jackson-Lee said. NEA Helps Servicemembers, Veterans, and Military Families Representative Louise Slaughter (D-N.Y.), co-chair of the Congressional Arts Caucus, spoke specifically about the importance of the NEA in enabling servicemembers, veterans and military families to benefit from creative arts therapies and community arts activities. “The NEA has expanded their reach to help servicemembers who have been diagnosed with Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) and other psychological health conditions,” Representative Slaughter said. “The Creative Forces program places creative arts therapies at the core of patient centered care in military medical facilities and invests in research on the impacts and benefits of these innovative treatment methods.” Arts Funding Important to Strong Education System Representative Alma Adams (D-N.C.) used her experience as a professional artist and arts educator to explain the importance of robust NEA funding to education at all levels of schooling. “Advocates and researchers have shown that the arts have a positive impact on a young person’s development. The NEA is a critical component to ensuring strong arts education in our schools,” Representative Adams said. “In order to continue to ensure that our students remain competitive in a global economy, we must continue to fund the arts.” Humanities Funding Has Broad Impact Across America Representative David Price (D-N.C.), co-chair of the Congressional Humanities Caucus, spoke to the Subcommittee about the role played by the NEH. “As co-chair of the Congressional Humanities Caucus, a responsibility I share with co-chair Representative Leonard Lance, and as a member of the Congressional Arts Caucus, I am proud to support the missions of the NEA and NEH,” Representative Price said. “Instead of eliminating our government’s modest level of support for these agencies, we should hold steadfast in our investment, which is one of the most efficient we make in terms of leveraging private, non-profit, and corporate dollars. These programs are critically important culturally, and they are the foundation of an arts and humanities community that supports millions of jobs.”
02.27.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) previewed President Donald Trump's Address to a Joint Session of Congress in a post on Medium: At four town hall meetings last week in St. Paul, I heard a clear message from my constituents: the State of our Union is anxious. President Donald Trump’s first month in office has left Minnesotans afraid. They are worried about their health care and their economic and retirement security and concerned about the safety of our communities and the security of our nation. Tomorrow night, President Trump will deliver his first address to Congress. The time for President Trump’s warmed-over campaign rhetoric is over. Congress and the American people deserve to hear about how we move forward, not more about the same unsettling agenda President Trump has already unleashed. Let’s start with the Affordable Care Act. President Trump and Congressional Republicans are rapidly advancing a proposal to repeal this important law entirely, stripping vital consumer protections and leaving millions of Americans — including 380,000 Minnesotans — uninsured. I hear often from constituents whose lives have been saved by this important law. President Trump should be working with both parties to improve the Affordable Care Act, rather than trying to give more control over your health care to big drug and insurance companies. The uninsured rate in both Minnesota and the United States is at a historic low. More Americans have access to comprehensive health care than ever before. When it comes to our health care, we cannot go backwards. Of course, health care is not President Trump’s only target. Economic and retirement security for Minnesota families are under fire from President Trump and his team. Just today, President Trump unveiled a disturbing vision for the federal budget that dramatically slashes vital domestic programs. His new Secretary of Health and Human Services has proposed turning Medicare into a voucher system and many of his advisers favor privatizing Social Security. President Trump is not just targeting benefits that Americans have earned and trying to slash important programs that create jobs and help families make ends meet. His signature regulatory policy is to make it easier for Wall Street to prey on working families. Under President Obama’s steady leadership, our economy recovered from the Great Recession while the excesses of Wall Street were reined in. With more work to do to help working families secure their economic futures, we cannot go backwards. As part of his attack on working families, President Trump has singled out immigrants in a way that puts the safety of all our communities at risk. Instead of prioritizing public safety, his ill-conceived executive orders have divided our country and made it harder for local law enforcement to keep us all safe. In particular, singling out Muslims with an unconstitutional ban is bigoted and shamefully un-American. When it comes to the safety of all our communities and families, we cannot go backwards. The damage that President Trump has done has not stopped at our borders. The resignation of former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn exposed a dysfunctional foreign policy. The resignation of National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, insulting phone calls with foreign leaders, and the decision to treat the response to a North Korean missile test as a dinner theater performance have all exposed a dysfunctional foreign policy. Now President Trump is governing erratically and threatening to break international commitments. His actions are unsettling allies and partners while adding to global instability. In fact, senior officials have already been forced to travel overseas to clean up the messes President Trump has made. After the disastrous Iraq War, President Obama painstakingly rebuilt America’s image and established a firm mantle of global leadership. When it comes to the United States’ place in the world, we cannot go backwards. No matter what President Trump says, his actions have spoken much louder than his words. His chaotic administration has put the lives and livelihoods of families in Minnesota and across America at risk. Alongside House and Senate Democrats, I am standing firm. I strongly oppose the dangerous, divisive Trump-Republican agenda. In the weeks and months ahead, Minnesotans and Americans from every walk of life — business executives, labor organizers, faith leaders, educators, activists, and people who have never advocated before — must come together, stand up, and say with one voice: we will not go backwards. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) represents Minnesota’s Fourth District in the United States House of Representatives.
02.27.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today announced that Ramsey County Board of Commissioners Chairwoman Victoria Reinhardt will be her guest at tomorrow’s Presidential Address to the Joint Session of Congress. “President Donald Trump’s dangerous agenda targets our communities, threatens to stop the progress we have made, and would take Minnesota backwards,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Countering President Trump’s misguided policies requires coordination between federal, state, and local elected officials. I will continue to work with Minnesota leaders like Chairwoman Reinhardt and the Ramsey County Board to keep our communities safe, strong, healthy, and moving forward.” Chairwoman Reinhardt is a noted advocate for environmental protection and violence prevention. She has represented District 7, including Maplewood, North Saint Paul, White Bear Lake and the Hillcrest area of Saint Paul, on the Ramsey County Board of Commissioners since 1997.
02.27.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in commemoration of Black History Month: "Each February, we celebrate Black History Month. We recognize African Americans’ struggle for freedom and justice in our country and we honor the many contributions that African Americans have made to our culture. The National Museum of African American History and Culture, which opened last fall, offers a long overdue recognition of the history and contributions of African Americans. “At the same time, the harsh legacy of injustice, the struggle for equality, and the unique culture that African Americans have forged is also visible in our own community. The historic Rondo neighborhood, a thriving African American community destroyed for highway construction with no regard for the people who lived there, leaves a painful scar that is only now being healed. The legacy of Roy Wilkins, a son of St. Paul and one of the foremost leaders of the Civil Rights Movement, reminds us that African American activism and advocacy has bent the arc of our moral universe towards justice. Our renowned Penumbra Theater has created a space for many talented African American artists to hone their skills and develop their own rich forms of creative expression. "Considerable progress has been made in creating equal opportunities for African Americans, but we have much more work to do. More than ever, we must defend civil rights – and especially voting rights – from both obvious attacks and subtle backsliding. We must work together to construct a more inclusive economy, expand educational opportunities, and build bridges between law enforcement and the communities they serve. The challenges are great, but nothing compared to the challenges that have already been overcome by African Americans time and again throughout our nation’s history."
02.24.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) packed this week’s President’s Day District Work Period with four town hall meetings, listening in-person to more than 1,000 Fourth District constituents. “As a U.S. Representative, listening to the people I represent is the most important part of my job,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I greatly appreciated hearing from my constituents this week about the issues that matter to them: protecting our health care, acting on climate change, growing our economy, and keeping Minnesota and America vibrant and welcoming.” Congresswoman McCollum’s first town hall event was a Tuesday night forum on labor and trade hosted by the St. Paul Regional Labor Federation and the Minnesota Fair Trade Coalition. More than 60 people attended the public event, held at the St. Paul Labor Center. Congresswoman McCollum took questions on issues related to federal labor laws and state labor protections, free trade agreements, and President Donald Trump’s failed Labor Secretary nominee Andy Puzder. Wednesday morning, Congresswoman McCollum joined an estimated 100 community activists and nonprofit leaders for a town hall-style “Coffee with Congress” hosted by the Minnesota Council on Nonprofits at Junior Achievement of the Upper Midwest in Maplewood. After making a presentation on President Trump and Congressional Republicans’ backwards agenda, Congresswoman McCollum answered constituents’ questions about health care, the environment, education, and federal support for the arts and humanities. On Thursday evening, a standing room only crowd of 600 people attended Congresswoman McCollum’s town hall discussion on climate change. Held on the campus of the University of St. Thomas, the event also included St. Thomas School of Engineering Professor Dr. John Abraham and Minnesota Public Radio legend Mark Seeley, both climate change experts. Congresswoman McCollum and the panelists addressed a range of audience questions, with many focused on what actions Minnesotans can take to fight climate change. Friday morning, a crowd of 300 people joined Congresswoman McCollum at the Hallie Q. Brown Community Center for her town hall-style community conversation on the Affordable Care Act, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Alongside Congresswoman McCollum was a panel that included health care and social service experts Dr. Clarence Hightower of the Community Action Partnership of Ramsey and Washington Counties, Kari Benson of the Minnesota Department of Human Services, Erin Parrish of AARP Minnesota, and Jonathan Palmer of the Hallie Q. Brown Center. In addition to the four town hall meetings, Congresswoman McCollum was a mystery reader on Wednesday at Roseville’s Emmet D. Williams Elementary School. Also on Wednesday, Congresswoman McCollum met with St. Catherine University students and President ReBecca Roloff and students to discuss issues ranging from student debt to immigration.
02.22.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum made the following comments on President Donald Trump's new deportation policy: "President Donald Trump's new deportation policy is the start of a war on immigrants. His policy abandons common-sense law enforcement and opens the door to abuse and racial profiling. "Targeting immigrants indiscriminately, running roughshod over due process, and building a blueprint for mass deportation does nothing to make our communities safer. In fact, it wastes resources, erodes trust in law enforcement, and stigmatizes families who have come to the United States to pursue the American dream. "President Trump’s policy is just plain wrong. All Americans, including Congressional Republicans, must come together to stop this travesty."
02.17.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today introduced an amendment to the United States Constitution to guarantee all Americans access to health care. “Access to quality, affordable health care is a basic human right that every American deserves. The Affordable Care Act has made major progress to secure that right,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “As President Trump and Congressional Republicans try to take us backwards, this constitutional amendment lays down a clear marker: the federal government has a responsibility to guarantee comprehensive health care for all Americans.” The America’s Right to Health Care Amendment is a simple, two-sentence proposal. It enshrines a right to health care in the Constitution and instructs Congress to enforce that right through legislation. “A large majority of Americans agree that the federal government has a responsibility to make sure all Americans have health coverage,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “By adding this basic human right to our Constitution, my amendment ensures that this federal responsibility is carried out. Everyone who cares about America’s health should come together to support this Constitutional amendment.” The full text of the America’s Right to Health Care Amendment is below: Section 1. Health care, including care to prevent and treat illness, is the right of all citizens of the United States and necessary to ensure the strength of the Nation. Section 2. The Congress shall have power to enforce and implement this article by appropriate legislation.
02.15.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum shared the following op-ed on Medium and sent a similar letter to constituents: Flynn Resignation Underscores Need for Full Investigation of Trump-Russia TiesRepublican silence begs the question: what are they covering up? The resignation of Michael Flynn, National Security Advisor for President Donald Trump, demonstrates that the scandal over ongoing close ties between the Russian government and President Trump and his associates has reached the highest levels of our government. It is shocking that many of my Republican colleagues appear unconcerned about this explosive news or, worse, make excuses for the Trump administration. Here’s what we know: In December, our Intelligence Community concluded that the Russian government interfered with the 2016 presidential campaign to help elect Mr. Trump. As a result, President Obama imposed sanctions on Russia and expelled a number of suspected Russian intelligence operatives. This week, we learned that Mr. Flynn conspired with Russian officials to undermine President Obama’s sanctions against Russia. This breached protocol, demonstrated extremely poor judgment, and may have violated federal law. Even worse, President Trump knew about Mr. Flynn’s misconduct for weeks and did nothing about it until it was publicly revealed. Last night, it was reported that a wide-ranging federal investigation has discovered repeated contacts between Mr. Trump’s campaign staff and other Trump associates and senior Russian intelligence officials. Given Russia’s actions to interfere with the 2016 presidential campaign, this revelation is particularly alarming. The Republican-controlled Congress owes the American people answers to very troubling questions about the Trump campaign and administration. Full and transparent inquiries must start immediately to follow the facts, find the truth, and reassure the American people that our national security has not been undermined. I am urging my colleagues in Congress to establish a plan of action to determine all the facts and, if necessary, hold President Trump and his aides accountable. That plan has three key parts. First, Congress must do its job and exercise its oversight powers to conduct a comprehensive review of Russia’s actions and President Trump’s relationship with the Russian government. A bipartisan, select committee — like the one that investigated Watergate — is the most appropriate venue for a Congressional investigation. Thus far, House and Senate Republicans are shirking their responsibilities and blocking attempts to establish such a committee. Second, we need an independent commission — like the 9/11 Commission — to review evidence, determine relevant facts, and produce a public report for the American people. Although there is a strong rationale and considerable precedent supporting the appointment of an independent, bipartisan commission to fully investigate Russia’s actions and its ties to Trump, Republicans have again balked and refused to investigate. Finally, the criminal probe must be led by a special prosecutor. The Justice Department is helmed by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, a top Trump surrogate, making it imperative that Sessions recuse himself and appoint an independent special prosecutor to lead the ongoing federal investigation of Trump and his associates. Sessions has the legal authority to make such an appointment, but has shown no interest in taking this important step. In addition to these three lines of inquiry, the American people also deserve transparency about President Trump’s tax returns. I strongly support the Presidential Tax Transparency Act, which would force President Trump to release his returns, and I have urged Republicans to use Congress’ power to compel Trump to submit his tax returns for review by the Ways & Means Committee. Once again, Congressional Republicans have declined. With so much evidence of wrongdoing and potential wrongdoing in President Trump’s inner circle, it is deeply disappointing that Congressional Republicans are still stonewalling for him. Their efforts beg the question: what are they covering up? I will keep pressing the case for full and thorough investigations into Trump’s Russian ties. I hope that responsible Republicans will join me, put country before party, and demand that we hold this scandal-plagued administration accountable.
02.15.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s comments that he can “live with” a one-state "solution" in which Israel permanently controls all Palestinian territory and ends the prospect of an independent Palestinian state existing in peace and security with Israel: “President Donald Trump’s comments abandoning a two-state solution between Israelis and Palestinians are a gift to extremists who reject a peaceful resolution to this conflict. “A one-state ‘solution’ would condemn millions of Palestinians to second-class status in Israel, denying them the full rights, dignity, and respect afforded to Israeli citizens. By ending the prospect of eventual Palestinian statehood while ratifying the permanent military occupation of Palestinian territory, a one-state ‘solution’ would make Israel’s future less secure and less democratic. “Millions of Palestinians and Israelis want peace, security, and a better future. Americans and the world community should stand with them and reject the Trump-Netanyahu one-state disaster.”
02.14.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the resignation of Michael Flynn, President Donald Trump’s National Security Advisor: “National Security Advisor Michael Flynn’s resignation exposes a White House in chaos and makes it obvious that a full investigation of President Donald Trump’s close ties to the Russian government is in order. “By all accounts, the National Security Council is in disarray. This turmoil is dangerous for our security, undermines global stability, and sends a terrifying message to our allies and partners around the world. As part of that mayhem, Mr. Flynn resigned only after it was made public that he conspired with Russian officials just weeks after Russia attacked our electoral process to benefit President Trump. According to numerous reports, the Trump administration was made aware of Mr. Flynn’s conduct weeks ago but did nothing until it was revealed by the press. “Given the serious nature of these disturbing events, the American people deserve the immediate appointment of a special prosecutor to investigate Mr. Flynn, the Trump campaign, and the Trump administration about their relationships with Russia and Russian officials before, during, and after the election. Responsible Republicans must stand with Democrats, put country before party, and hold Mr. Flynn and the Trump administration accountable to the American people.”
02.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement about President Donald Trump's National Security Advisor Michael Flynn: “In December, President Obama imposed sanctions on Russia for its attacks on our democracy during the 2016 presidential election. It has now been publicly reported that President Donald Trump’s National Security Adviser Michael Flynn communicated with Russian officials about those sanctions and may have suggested sanctions could be lifted once Mr. Trump took office. “Mr. Flynn’s conversations with Russian officials breached protocol, demonstrated very poor judgment, and may have violated federal law. According to numerous media reports, federal authorities are investigating Mr. Flynn. In addition, Mr. Flynn appears to have misled Vice President Mike Pence and other administration officials about his contacts with the Russians. “When he was the host of ‘The Apprentice,’ Mr. Trump fired people for far less than what Mr. Flynn has done in this case. At the very least, Mr. Flynn should be immediately suspended and his access to classified information revoked pending the outcome of the federal investigation into his activities.”
02.10.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will host a community conversation on the Affordable Care Act, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid on Friday, Feb. 24 at the Hallie Q. Brown Community Center. “The Affordable Care Act, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid help many Minnesota seniors make ends meet. However, President Trump and the Republican Congress want to repeal the Affordable Care Act, gut Medicaid, and end Medicare as we know it,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This important conversation will discuss the impact of these important programs and what we can do together to protect them.” WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum WHAT: A community conversation on the Affordable Care Act, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid WHERE: Canteen Room, Hallie Q. Brown Community Center, 270 North Kent Street, St. Paul, Minnesota 55102 WHEN: Friday, Feb. 24 from 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. The community conversation is free and open to the public. No RSVP is required. In addition to this community conversation, Congresswoman McCollum will hold a town hall discussion on climate change the previous day, Thursday, Feb. 23. That conversation will take place on Thursday, Feb. 23 from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. in the James B. Woulfe Alumni Hall on the 3rd Floor of the Anderson Student Center on the campus of the University of St. Thomas, located at 2115 Summit Avenue, St. Paul, Minnesota 55105.
02.10.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will hold a town hall discussion on climate change on Thursday, Feb. 23 on the campus of the University of St. Thomas. The town hall, which will include St. Thomas School of Engineering Professor Dr. John Abraham as a special guest, will address how we can continue acting on climate change in the face of the Trump administration’s anti-science, pro-fossil fuel stance. “President Donald Trump has called climate change a ‘hoax’ perpetrated by the Chinese and the Republican Congress wants to tear up environmental protections like the Clean Power Plan,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Our discussion will focus on what we all can do to act on climate change and protect our planet from its most devastating impacts.” WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum WHAT: A town hall discussion on climate change, featuring St. Thomas School of Engineering Professor Dr. John Abraham WHERE: James B. Woulfe Alumni Hall, 3rd Floor of the Anderson Student Center, University of St. Thomas, 2115 Summit Avenue, St. Paul, Minnesota 55105. WHEN: Thursday, Feb. 23 from 4:00 to 5:00 p.m. The town hall discussion on climate change is free and open to the public. No RSVP is required. In addition to the climate change town hall, Congresswoman McCollum will host a community conversation on the Affordable Care Act, Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid the following day, Friday, Feb. 24. That conversation will take place on Friday, Feb. 24 from 10:00 to 11:00 a.m. in the Canteen Room at the Hallie Q. Brown Community Center, located at 270 North Kent Street, St. Paul, Minnesota 55102.
02.08.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, led a bipartisan group of House members writing to President Donald Trump on Wednesday urging him to exempt the Indian Health Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and other agencies that serve the needs of Native communities from his federal hiring freeze. “The unique trust and treaty obligations of the United States to American Indians and Alaska Natives means that a federal hiring freeze will directly impact the safety of their communities, the education of their children, and their access to health care providers,” the lawmakers wrote. “If an exemption from the freeze is not granted to the IHS, BIA, and other relevant departments, it will deepen an already existing shortage of doctors, teachers, and law enforcement officers throughout Indian Country.” The letter cites federal government reports that have found a high vacancy rate for positions within the Indian Health Service and Bureau of Indian Affairs is already threatening the well-being of Native American families. If these agencies are not exempted from a mandated hiring freeze, understaffing — particularly at the IHS — could become a matter of life and death for Native American families. McCollum and her colleagues also raise concerns about the impact of President Trump’s memorandum on tribal self-governance. With language prohibiting “contracting outside the government,” the freeze could not only deprive communities of doctors, teachers, and officers, but also undermine tribal self-determination under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act. “In recent decades, we have seen improved federal policies, increased investments, and greater tribal self-governance start to reduce the disparities in health, education, and safety facing Native Americans,” the lawmakers wrote. “A federal hiring freeze would also freeze that progress, and so we urge you to work with OMB, OPM, and your agency heads to exempt those programs that serve American Indians and Alaska Natives.” Joining Congresswoman McCollum on the letter are Congressional Native American Caucus co-chair Tom Cole (R-Okla.) and Representatives Norma J. Torres (D-Calif.), Walter B. Jones (R-N.C.), Michael K. Simpson (R-Idaho), Tom O’Halleran (D-Ariz.), Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.), Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Gwen Moore (D-Wisc.), Krysten Sinema (D-Ariz.), Tony Cárdenas (D-Calif.), Suzan DelBene (D-Wash.), Ron Kind (D-Wisc.), Collin C. Peterson (D-Minn.), John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.), Grace F. Napolitano (D-Calif.), Michelle Lujan Grisham (D-N.M.), Jared Huffman (D-Calif.), Raul Ruiz (D-Calif.), Colleen Hanabusa (D-Hawaii), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-Ariz.), Ben Ray Luján (D-N.M.), Mark Pocan (D-Wisc.), and Chellie Pingree (D-Me.). The full text of the letter can be found here and below: Dear President Trump: As Members of the U.S. House of Representatives, we have serious concerns about how your January 23 memorandum instituting an immediate hiring freeze for Federal agencies will impact our Native American constituents and tribal nations throughout our country. We therefore request that you direct the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management to take account of how this memorandum will impact Indian Country, and to exempt from the hiring freeze the Indian Health Service, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and other agencies that serve the needs of Native communities. The unique trust and treaty obligations of the United States to American Indians and Alaska Natives means that a federal hiring freeze will directly impact the safety of their communities, the education of their children, and their access to health care providers. If an exemption from the freeze is not granted to the IHS, BIA, and other relevant departments, it will deepen an already existing shortage of doctors, teachers, and law enforcement officers throughout Indian Country. In 2016, the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services found that the number of vacancies within the Indian Health Service significantly impacts both the continuity and the quality of care. With vacancy rates of 24 percent for nurses and 34 percent for physicians, federal IHS facilities desperately need support for recruiting and retaining health practitioners. A freeze on filling these positions is literally a matter of life and death within these communities. The federal employees at the Bureau of Indian Affairs, including the Bureau of Indian Education and Office of Justice Services, have faced similar challenges with recruitment and retention of employees. A mandated hiring freeze will compound current vacancy issues, which threaten the well-being of Native families. For example, a Government Accountability Office last year identified regional staff vacancies as a major contributor to the lack of proper health and safety assessments at BIE schools. Understaffing is also a major concern for tribal police departments, where the BIA has said only 42 percent of the law enforcement need is being met. We are also concerned that this memorandum would impact tribal self-governance. The memorandum contains language prohibiting “contracting outside the government” to fill positions. Since the passage of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (P.L. 93-638) in 1975, many tribal nations have established contracts and compacts with the federal government to administer the programs that serve their communities, including hiring public service employees like those previously mentioned. The self-governance program is local government at its best. If the memorandum freezes hiring under these contracts, it will not only deprive communities of doctors, teachers, and officers, but will also undermine tribal self-determination. In recent decades, we have seen improved federal policies, increased investments, and greater tribal self-governance start to reduce the disparities in health, education, and safety facing Native Americans. A federal hiring freeze would also freeze that progress, and so we urge you to work with OMB, OPM, and your agency heads to exempt those programs that serve American Indians and Alaska Natives.
02.02.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined House Democrats and Gold Star Father Khizr Khan today to introduce the Freedom of Religion Act, which prohibits the use of religious litmus tests as a means to ban immigrants, refugees, and international visitors trying to enter the United States. The legislation would help overturn President Donald Trump’s executive order banning refugees, discriminating against Muslim immigrants, and targeting Muslim Americans. “Our Constitution could not be more explicit: in the United States, we treat everyone the same no matter what God they worship or whether they don't worship a God at all. Back home in Minnesota, these tolerant, welcoming values keep our state strong. Minnesotans are better off because we have embraced immigrants of every nationality and religion, including the vibrant Muslim American community that calls our Twin Cities home,” Congresswoman McCollum said in her remarks at the press conference introducing the legislation. “Discriminating based on religion, as President Donald Trump's executive order has done, divides our communities and makes our country more isolated in the world. We’ve seen the impact of this order in Minnesota this past week and we know that it makes our country weaker, not stronger.” In addition to her original co-sponsorship of the Freedom of Religion Act, sponsored by Representative Don Beyer (D-Va.), Congresswoman McCollum is supporting numerous other efforts to negate President Trump’s cruel, discriminatory executive order, including the Statue of Liberty Values Act, which would invalidate the order and prevent federal funds or fees from being used to implement it. “Over the past week, people from every walk of life have stood up and spoken out against President Trump's discriminatory executive order. We have heard from business leaders and labor unions, educators and the faith community, military veterans and distinguished diplomats,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This is not a time to remain silent. My Republican friends should speak out and join us supporting the Freedom of Religion Act, the Statue of Liberty Values Act, and every effort we can undertake to defend of our Constitution and our American values.”
02.01.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on Representative Rick Nolan’s letter encouraging President Donald Trump to overturn protections for the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness: “For years, I have worked alongside tens thousands of Minnesotans and Americans to protect the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness from the unacceptable risk of pollution from sulfide-ore copper mining. In December, President Obama rejected a Chilean-owned company’s effort to renew 50-year-old leases adjacent to the Boundary Waters and Voyageurs National Park and took additional steps that would protect the BWCA from dangerous mining. That decision was a victory for every Minnesotan who cares about preserving clean water, clean air, and pristine wild lands. “Given that recent triumph, I am deeply disappointed that my colleague Representative Rick Nolan is now asking the Trump administration to reverse the Obama administration’s decision and once again put our Boundary Waters at risk. Particularly disturbing is that Representative Nolan thinks the Trump administration will make its decision using ‘science and facts,’ which puts an outrageous amount of faith in an administration that denies climate science and has openly peddled ‘alternative facts.’ “Representative Nolan’s assault on this natural treasure is misguided. Minnesotans can count on me to stay the course and keep fighting every day to protect our Boundary Waters from polluters, the Trump administration, and politicians who stand with it.”
02.01.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) was today approved by the House Democratic Steering and Policy Committee to serve a second term as Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies. In this role, Congresswoman McCollum is the top Democrat on the committee that writes a $32 billion bill funding protection of our nation’s natural and cultural resources, including money for the Department of the Interior, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Indian Health Service, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Forest Service, National Endowment for the Arts and the Humanities, and the Smithsonian Institution. “One of the most serious responsibilities of the federal government is the protection of our natural and cultural resources for ourselves and for future generations. As Ranking Member on the Interior-Environment Subcommittee, I will stand up and fight against President Trump and Republicans’ plans to attack environmental protection, sell our public lands, and defund the arts and humanities,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I appreciate the confidence my Democratic colleagues have shown by re-electing me to lead the Interior-Environment Subcommittee and I look forward to working with them as we work to stop the dangerous Trump-Republican agenda.” In addition to her role as Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Congresswoman McCollum will serve on the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Department of Defense, and the Legislative Branch Appropriations Subcommittee.
01.31.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to serve as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States: “After Republicans used outrageously partisan tactics to deny President Obama’s eminently qualified Supreme Court nominee a fair hearing, President Donald Trump has launched an all-out attack on our rights as Americans with his nomination of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court. “Make no mistake: Judge Gorsuch is a radical choice for the Supreme Court. If confirmed, he will be a vote to end a woman’s right to choose, reverse progress on LGBT rights, and champion the interests of big business over working families. It is a deeply disturbing fact that Judge Gorsuch is the architect of the Hobby Lobby decision, which allowed employers to deny female employees access to contraception. “The Supreme Court is the final guardian of both our Constitution and our rights as Americans. With his far-right views, we cannot trust Judge Gorsuch to uphold either the Constitution or the freedoms we enjoy in the United States. The Senate must reject the Gorsuch nomination.”
01.31.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today co-sponsored the Protect the National Security Council from Political Interference Act, which would negate President Donald Trump’s memorandum appointing Stephen Bannon, chief White House strategist and former Breitbart Executive Editor, to the National Security Council Principals Committee. The bill also urges President Trump to ensure that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence have a standing invitation to attend all National Security Council Principals Committee meetings. “I share my constituents' fear and outrage that Stephen Bannon, an ‘alt-right’ media figure who built his career catering to anti-Semites and white supremacists has been given a seat on the National Security Council. When it comes to our national security, we need experts offering clear and informed advice, not an ‘alt-right’ political hack spewing alternative facts,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am co-sponsoring this legislation to ensure that Mr. Bannon is not able to impose his dangerous worldview and his scorched earth political approach on our country’s most sensitive national security decisions.” President Trump’s appointment of Bannon overturned decades of precedent that precluded political advisors engaged in domestic politics from serving as a permanent member of the National Security Council. A bipartisan group of national security experts have raised serious concerns about Trump’s decision and Senator John McCain (R-Ariz.) described the appointment as a “radical departure from any National Security Council in history.” Trump’s memorandum also removed Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Director of National Intelligence from the list of regular attendees at National Security Council Principals Committee meetings. “When consequential decisions are being made, the President should hear from the top military and intelligence leaders in our government,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “President Trump cannot be allowed to bury his head in the sand and ignore the experts who are charged with keeping America safe.” The Protect the National Security Council from Political Interference Act, introduced by Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (D-Fla.), amends the National Security Act of 1947 to prevent the President from designating any individual whose “primary or predominant responsibility is political in nature” as a member of the National Security Council or authorizing them to regularly attend meetings of the Council or meetings of sub-groups within the Council like the Principals Committee.
01.31.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum today co-sponsored the Safeguarding Sanctuary Cities Act (H.R. 748), legislation that would help protect local governments like St. Paul and Ramsey County from President Donald Trump’s executive order tying federal funding to assistance with his anti-immigrant agenda. “St. Paul and Ramsey County are safer because our law enforcement officials work cooperatively with our entire community, instead of targeting and profiling people based on their immigration status,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud of our local law enforcement’s work to keep our community safe and strong. Our policies in the Twin Cities should be a model for the nation, not a point of attack for the Trump administration.” In 2004, St. Paul passed a “separation ordinance” that restricts city employees — including police — from asking about a person’s citizenship status before rendering services. In 2014, Ramsey County stopped detaining people based on suspected civil immigration violations without probable cause. These policies make it easier for law enforcement officers to prioritize keeping our community safe. In an executive order signed on January 25, President Trump instructed federal officials to make “sanctuary jurisdictions” ineligible for most forms of federal grant funding. The Safeguarding Sanctuary Cities Act, introduced by Congressman Mike Quigley (D-Ill.) and co-sponsored by 32 House Democrats, would ensure that federal funds are not withheld from jurisdictions that have chosen to prioritize public safety and foster a welcoming attitude for every member of their community. “President Trump is shamefully targeting immigrants and the cities that welcome them to score political points. Instead of giving in to Trump’s agenda, communities like St. Paul will stay safe by ensuring that our law enforcement continues to work closely with our entire community,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud to co-sponsor this important bill to stop his efforts and protect the welcoming values that Minnesotans share.”
01.30.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined House and Senate Democrats and a crowd of thousands on the steps of the Supreme Court on Monday night speaking out against President Donald Trump’s executive order banning refugees, discriminating against Muslim immigrants, and targeting Muslim Americans. “I am proud to stand with my colleagues and millions of Americans who strongly oppose President Trump’s cruel executive order. As Minnesotans and Americans, we embrace openness and tolerance, not bigotry and discrimination,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Democrats are ready to overturn President Trump’s order and stop the harm it is causing our country. It is time for Republicans to get off the sidelines, join us, and stop Trump’s unjust action.” The Statue of Liberty Values Act (SOLVE) Act, which Congresswoman McCollum co-sponsored alongside more than 160 House Democrats, would immediately invalidate President Trump’s executive order and ensure that no funds or fees are used to carry it out. On Monday night, House Republicans blocked a motion that would have allowed the House to consider and vote on the SOLVE Act.
01.30.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today co-sponsored legislation to immediately end President Donald Trump’s discriminatory executive order banning refugees, discriminating against Muslim immigrants, and targeting Muslim Americans returning to the United States. “President Trump’s executive order is cruel, discriminatory, and makes the United States less safe. I join business leaders, faith groups, labor unions, and national security experts condemning this order in the strongest possible terms,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud to co-sponsor the SOLVE Act, which would end this disgraceful order and stop President Trump from using taxpayer funds to enforce it.” The Statue of Liberty Value Act, the SOLVE Act, invalidates President Trump’s executive order and prohibits President Trump from using any funds or fees to enforce the order. If enacted, the SOLVE Act would help end the climate of fear and chaos that this order has unleashed for immigrants, refugees, and their families, including many in Minnesota. “President Trump’s discriminatory order is an affront to the values we hold dear as Minnesotans and Americans. With House and Senate Democrats standing united in opposition to this order, Congressional Republicans must speak up and join us in supporting legislation to end this order,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This is no time for political cowardice. It is time for Republicans in Minnesota and across the United States to show courage in the face of a policy that threatens to destroy lives.”
01.28.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump's executive order blocking the admission of refugees and discriminating against Muslim Americans and immigrants: "President Donald Trump's executive order targeting refugees and Muslim immigrants is cruel, betrays our values as Americans, and does nothing to enhance national security. Turning away the world's most vulnerable people — fully-vetted refugees fleeing war and persecution — does not make America safer. Discriminating against legal residents and immigrants based on their religion betrays our Constitution, provides a propaganda tool to terrorists, and demonstrates to our allies that the White House will abandon them for political expediency. “There is no moral ambiguity about this executive order: it is intended to harm refugees and Muslims fleeing persecution. With so much at stake, now is the time for our entire community — faith leaders, business owners, workers and labor unions, public officials — to speak with one voice and oppose President Trump's attack on our Minnesotan and American values. Congressional Republicans must not silently support President Trump’s action out of political fear while thousands of fully-vetted refugees now fear for their lives. This is not a time for political cowardice, but for courage in the face of a policy that will needlessly destroy lives. On Monday, when Congress goes into session, Democrats and Republicans must stand united as Americans and reject this extreme presidential action. Anything less is to be complicit in President Trump's cruel attack on immigrants and refugees. “It is a sad irony that President Trump's actions came on Holocaust Remembrance Day, when we also reckon with America's refusal – out of sheer religious bigotry – to welcome refugees fleeing the Nazi regime. President Trump's decision adds a new chapter to that national shame.”
01.27.2017	More than 500 Minnesotans joined Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) for her January 26 town hall meeting at Neighborhood House at the Wellstone Center. "I enjoyed talking to Minnesotans about what we can do, together, to fight President Donald Trump's dangerous agenda," Congresswoman McCollum said. "I look forward to continuing our conversation in the week and months ahead." The overflow crowd for the January 26 town hall followed a standing room only crowd made up of hundreds of Minnesotans that joined Congresswoman Betty McCollum for her first town hall meeting of 2017 at the Highland Park Community Center on January 18. Information on additional town hall meetings will be announced in the near future.
01.26.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) met Thursday with leaders of the St. Paul-based Center for Victims of Torture to discuss their shared opposition to President Donald Trump’s proposals to reintroduce the use of torture by the United States government. “Torture is illegal, immoral and makes our country less safe,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I unequivocally reject the use of torture by our Armed Forces or intelligence agencies because it doesn’t work, it puts American service members and officials at risk, and it violates the core American value of human rights.” In an interview with ABC News’ David Muir on Wednesday, President Trump spoke glowingly of torture: “absolutely, I feel it works… As far as I’m concerned we have to fight fire with fire.” In addition, The New York Times reported on Wednesday that a draft Trump executive order would reinstate the use of torture by the United States government. “Here in Minnesota, because of the work of the Center for Victims of Torture, we have a tradition of welcoming and healing torture victims. For the President to attempt to legitimize torture is reprehensible and a betrayal of who we are as Americans,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “If President Trump pushes to legalize torture as a weapon against prisoners, I will fight to stop him.” The St. Paul-based Center for Victims of Torture conducts programming to provide support and care for victims of torture while striving for a world entirely free of torture. In 2016, the Center for Victims of Torture launched a national campaign, A Call to Reject Torture, supported by more than 100 former Cabinet members, diplomats, generals, and faith leaders – including former Secretaries of Defense Chuck Hagel and William Cohen.
01.26.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) and Democratic members of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee wrote to President Donald Trump on Thursday demanding more information about his freeze on Environmental Protection Agency grants. “We are deeply distressed that your transition team has ordered the EPA to freeze grants and contracts and that it has prohibited EPA staff from communicating with elected officials and state and local grant recipients,” the lawmakers wrote. “To halt funding for the vital work of these public and private institutions is unprecedented and unacceptable.” The letter also raises serious concerns about the Trump administration’s EPA communication blackout and urges Trump to reverse it immediately. “The Administration failed to notify Congress and the state environmental agencies of its freeze on EPA grant and contract funds and has refused to respond to state agency inquiries,” the lawmakers wrote. “State agencies are an essential partner in protecting public health and the environment. The Administration’s deliberate communication blackout is unacceptable and must be reversed.” In the letter, the lawmakers request information from the administration about the grants and contracts that were frozen and any directives sent to EPA employees about the freeze or their communications about it. The Democratic lawmakers are also requesting the U.S. Government Accountability Office review whether the Trump administration’s actions violate the Impoundment Control Act of 1974 or other appropriations law. In addition to Congresswoman McCollum, the letter is signed by House Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-N.Y.) and Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee members Chellie Pingree (D-Maine), Derek Kilmer (D-Wash.), and Marcy Kaptur (D-Ohio). The full text of the letter is below: President Trump: As Members of the United States House of Representatives Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Environmental Protection Agency, we are deeply distressed that your transition team has ordered the EPA to freeze grants and contracts and that it has prohibited EPA staff from communicating with elected officials and state and local grant recipients. As you are well aware, Congress appropriated funding for these grants and contracts so that EPA can carry out its vital mission to protect the health of the American people and our environment. Nearly half of the EPA budget goes to grants and contracts to the States, Tribes, non-profits, educational institutions, and others to advance human health and environmental safeguards. To halt funding for the vital work of these public and private institutions is unprecedented and unacceptable. This action is counter to the intent of Congress, which holds and exercises the power to direct such funds. The Administration failed to notify Congress and the state environmental agencies of its freeze on EPA grant and contract funds and has refused to respond to state agency inquiries. State agencies are an essential partner in protecting public health and the environment. The Administration’s deliberate communication blackout is unacceptable and must be reversed. In order for Congress to better understand the impact of these actions on the funding for which we have oversight jurisdiction, we ask that you provide the following information: A complete list of the grants and contracts that were frozen under this action and their corresponding recipients. Any communications sent to EPA employees instituting this freeze and restricting their communication. A summary of any findings resulting from the team’s review and their plans going forward for the grants and contracts. Furthermore, we will be requesting that the U.S. Government Accountability Office review whether the Administration’s actions run afoul of the Impoundment Control Act of 1974 and other appropriations law. Sincerely, Betty McCollum Nita Lowey Chellie Pingree Derek Kilmer Marcy Kaptur
01.25.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Donald Trump’s executive actions attacking immigrants and refugees: “President Trump’s executive actions regarding refugees and immigrants, as well as sanctuary cities like St. Paul and Minneapolis, are a cruel and callous attack on at-risk and vulnerable people. They shamefully betray our values as Minnesotans and Americans. “Blocking fully vetted refugees fleeing violence, terror and war from entering the United States does not make America safer. Instead, it sends an isolationist and fearful message to the world that our country is abdicating its international obligations. Specifically stopping refugees from Muslim-majority countries from entering the United States is a bigoted action that will be a propaganda bonanza for ISIL and other extremist groups. President Trump’s order is not rooted in reality or facts. In fact, it is antithetical to our values of tolerance, openness and religious freedom. “These executive actions directly punish St. Paul as a sanctuary city. President Trump has demonized immigrants to score political points and it has worked for him. But in cities that reject Trump’s racism and bigotry, like St. Paul, we will stay safe by ensuring that our law enforcement works closely with all our communities. “Finally, President Trump’s steps today to move forward with building a wall on the United States-Mexico border will waste taxpayer dollars while further isolating our country from our neighbors. As a member of the House Appropriations Committee, I will strongly oppose spending a single cent of taxpayer money on this unnecessary wall. “Fighting against President Trump’s destructive agenda will require courage and commitment on the part of all citizens. Leaders in business, non-profits, unions, elected office, and key public sector positions must stand together with engaged citizens to take action against policies that are corrosive to Minnesota’s future. As President Trump continues to bully the vulnerable, I will take the fight to him and his supporters in Congress.”
01.23.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), the Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee that funds the Environmental Protection Agency, released the following statement after media reports disclosed details of the Trump administration’s “agency action plan” for the EPA: “The Trump administration’s secret plan for the Environmental Protection Agency would radically alter the agency into one that protects the profits of polluters and forsakes the public health of the American people. “Gutting enforcement of our nation’s environmental laws and cutting nearly $1 billion from the EPA’s budget means that our rivers and streams would become more polluted and our air would become more toxic. Ending climate change initiatives would threaten the very future of our Earth. Attacking scientific research at the EPA would open another front in the Trump administration’s emerging war on facts and science. “I will strongly oppose President Trump’s attack on the EPA, which puts the lives and health of American families at risk now and threatens to destroy the environment for future generations. Democrats and Republicans must come together to defend clean air, clean water, and the health of our planet. ”
01.21.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered remarks to an estimated 60,000 attendees at Saturday’s Women’s March Minnesota in St. Paul: “Hello Minnesota! Thank you for being here. Now is the time for solidarity! Now is the time for sisters of all ages from all places to stand together. “For our daughters, our mothers, our sisters, and for ourselves, we must stand together because there are politicians in Washington and in St. Paul who want to take our rights away from us. “My name is Betty McCollum. In the United States House of Representatives, I am Minnesota’s only pro-choice, pro-human rights, pro-civil rights, pro-Obamacare, pro-voting rights, and pro-workers rights Congresswoman! “Women are marching and rallying today across the country to send a loud, clear message to President Trump and his right-wing Congress: Keep your hands off our bodies! Keep your hands off our healthcare! Keep your hands off Planned Parenthood! Keep your backwards agenda out of workplaces, out of our schools, and out of our communities. “To all my sisters – white and black; Christian, Muslim and Jewish; Native American, Latina, and Asian-American; gay and straight; mother, grandmother and granddaughter; whomever we are, we must stand together, we must stay organized together, we must fight for all of our rights – together, and we must not quit. “Our values, our rights, and the laws that protect us are under attack. I know this is true because the people I work with are the ones attacking us. “This is battle we must win! We need to stand together and organize together. We need to raise our voices and use our votes to protect our rights. “And to those politicians, businesses, and organizations that want to deny women access to healthcare, that want to deny women equal pay for equal work, or treat any of our sisters as second class citizens – then we must focus our energy, take action, and make our opponents pay a price. “Sisters and brothers, yesterday I was on the platform in front of the U.S. Capitol only a few feet away from the president when he was sworn in. Let me tell you and let me say this to Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence as well, there is no honeymoon, there is no grace period! “We are mobilized in Minnesota and in cities and towns all across America! We are not going to roll over and allow Donald Trump to take away our rights, we are going to fight to defend our rights! We are in a fight, we will not back down, and we will not be stopped. “Thank you, sisters and brothers! This is America, and we’ve got to fight for our rights!”
01.20.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) attended today's inauguration - joining House Democrats wearing a "#ProtectOurCare" pin in silent protest of President Donald Trump's plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act and limit Americans' access to health care. Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement on President Donald Trump's inauguration and inaugural address: "President Donald Trump's inaugural address presented a dark and frightening vision of an America divided at home and isolated in the world. Instead of appealing to the better angels of our nature, President Trump has decided to sow more division with warmed over campaign rhetoric. "I completely reject President Trump's disturbing vision for our country. We are already a great nation and we must protect our future from this President's dangerous policies. There will be no Presidential honeymoon this year: I am ready to stand up to Trump now."
01.19.2017	Building off the tremendous success of her first 2017 town hall meeting, Congresswoman Betty McCollum is encouraging Fourth District residents to attend her next town hall meeting on Thursday, January 26. “Representing you in Congress means listening to your policy priorities and concerns," Congresswoman McCollum said. "With the Trump administration and Republican majorities in Congress already planning radical policy changes, we have a lot to discuss." Congresswoman McCollum's next town hall meeting will be held on Thursday, January 26 from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the Auditorium at the Neighborhood House at the Wellstone Center, located at 179 Robie Street East in St. "I want to hear from you directly about the issues that matter to you," Congresswoman McCollum said. "Bring a friend or neighbor and join us on January 26." Congresswoman McCollum will also announce additional town halls in the coming weeks.
01.18.2017	The Senate Environment and Public Works Committee is today considering President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Scott Pruitt, the Republican Attorney General of Oklahoma, to be Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) — Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Environmental Protection Agency — released the following statement on the Pruitt confirmation hearings: “The Environmental Protection Agency is tasked with protecting the American people from polluters who poison our air and water for profit. Unfortunately, President-elect Donald Trump’s pick to lead the EPA — Scott Pruitt — has a record of standing not alongside the American people, but with the very polluters who endanger public health. “As Oklahoma Attorney General, Mr. Pruitt has aggressively worked to weaken the EPA’s ability to enforce the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts. He has been so cozy with the fossil fuel industry that he even colluded with them to challenge federal environmental rules in court. “Mr. Pruitt is a climate denier. He has repeatedly suggested that climate change science is ‘far from settled’ and even argued that attempts to rein in carbon emissions were ‘lawless.’ He has called for the end of the Clean Power Plan and a reversal of all the progress we have made to address the threat of climate change. “I take very seriously our shared responsibility to protect Americans’ public health today and to preserve our environment for future generations. Given Mr. Pruitt’s toxic record, the United States Senate should reject his nomination.”
01.18.2017	The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions is today considering the nomination of Representative Tom Price (R-Ga.) to serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the Price confirmation hearings: “The nomination of Representative Tom Price (R-GA) to serve as Secretary of Health and Human Services represents a Republican assault on Americans who receive health care from Medicare, Medicaid, the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and the Affordable Care Act. “As Chairman of the House Budget Committee, Representative Price has repeatedly supported budgets that turn Medicare into a voucher program, raising costs for seniors and potentially leaving some uninsured. The Medicare guarantee is a promise to our seniors, and I strongly oppose any efforts to weaken this vital program. “In addition to his work to hurt our seniors, Rep. Price has worked to undermine the Affordable Care Act, limit children's access to the Children’s Health Insurance Program, and make it harder for low-income Americans to get health care through Medicaid. And he has attacked women’s health care, including misguided and dangerous attempts to defund Planned Parenthood and limit millions of women’s access to preventive health care. “You can count on me to stand up and speak out against the Trump-Republican plans to both end Medicare as we know it and cause millions of Americans to lose health insurance coverage. On behalf of the American people, we must fight back and protect both the Medicare guarantee and all Americans’ access to health care. The Senate should begin that fight back by rejecting the Price nomination.”
01.17.2017	The Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources is today considering the nomination of Congressman Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.) to serve as Secretary of the Interior. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), the lead Democrat on the Appropriations Subcommittee with jurisdiction over the Department of the Interior, released the following statement on the Zinke nomination: “With his nomination of Representative Ryan Zinke to lead the Department of the Interior, President-elect Donald Trump has shown once again that he will put the fossil fuel industry and private interests before the public good of all Americans. “Representative Zinke has consistently voted to erode protections for endangered species. He has favored legislation that weakens environmental protections and makes it easier for big polluters to exploit our public resources. He has refused to acknowledge the reality of man-made climate change. And, just this month, he supported the House Republican plan to devalue America’s public lands in order to transfer them to private interests. “The core mission of the Department of the Interior is to protect public lands and endangered species, preserve our national and natural heritage, and uphold our obligations to Native Americans. I am deeply concerned that President-elect Trump and Representative Zinke plan to pursue policies sharply at odds with that core mission. If they do, you can count on me to fight them every step of the way.”
01.17.2017	The Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions is considering President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Betsy DeVos to be Secretary of Education. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the DeVos nomination: “Betsy DeVos, President-elect Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Education, has a disturbing track record of attacking public education in America and funding an extremist agenda that weakens our public schools. “Ms. DeVos has no experience in public education other than partisan lobbying to slash funding for public schools, demonize public school teachers, and promote for-profit schooling beginning in kindergarten. “The unregulated, for-profit charter school system that Ms. DeVos championed in Michigan failed its students. When parents complained and sought more oversight, Ms. DeVos spent millions to ensure that they would get no accountability. “In addition, Ms. DeVos has steered millions of dollars to groups that oppose LGBT rights. She cannot be trusted to lead a department tasked with ensuring that all students, no matter their sexual orientation or gender identity, can learn and succeed in school. “Given her radical record, Ms. DeVos is the wrong person to serve as the lead advocate for America’s students. I urge the Senate to vote down the DeVos nomination.”
01.17.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement regarding Friday’s presidential inauguration ceremony: "President-elect Donald Trump's behavior and policy proposals before, during, and after the November 8 election is repugnant to the values on which the United States was built and that Minnesotans hold dear. I have faith in our Constitutional democracy and in the power of citizen action to stop Mr. Trump's dangerous agenda in the coming months and years. "On Friday, I will join President Obama and Secretary Clinton for the inauguration of our 45th President, a ritual that is a hallmark of our democratic government. I will also be present so Mr. Trump fully understands that, from the halls of Congress to the streets of our communities, Americans are already working to stop him from further hurting our country. "That’s a fight I will join in person, alongside thousands of Minnesotans, at the Women’s March in St. Paul on Saturday."
01.16.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in commemoration of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day, which will be observed on Monday, January 16: “In his 39 years, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. helped transform our country from one where African-Americans were forced to use separate drinking fountains to one in which an African-American is about to complete two terms holding the highest office in the land. On this day set aside to remember Dr. King’s legacy, we reflect on his commitment to social justice and on the powerful, nonviolent movement he fostered to expand opportunity and build a more compassionate and equal America. “Around the nation, and here at home in Minnesota, Americans of all ages will further Dr. King’s legacy by dedicating their time on Monday to community service. As we transition to a new Administration, this civic engagement is all the more important. In the year ahead, we must redouble our efforts to defend voting rights, speak out against discrimination in all forms, and pursue justice and equality for all Americans.”
01.15.2017	Joining millions of Americans participating in "Our First Stand" — the National Day of Action to Save Health Care — Congresswoman Betty McCollum recorded a video message explaining her strong support for the Affordable Act and strongly opposing Republican plans to repeal this life-saving law. Watch Congresswoman McCollum’s video supporting the ACA. In the video, Congresswoman McCollum notes the success of the ACA in expanding access and improving health care quality for all Americans, no matter whether they get insurance from their employers, buy it on their own, or receive Medicare or Medicaid. Congresswoman McCollum also notes the dire effects of Republican repeal plans and offers a preview of her plans to fight to save the ACA. “You can count on me to strongly oppose every Republican effort to repeal the ACA and put at risk the health and financial well-being of millions of Americans,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am asking you to join me in fighting to keep Minnesota healthy, to help our seniors, to protect our families from losing insurance, and to maintain vital consumer protections that keep our communities strong.”
01.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today voted against House and Senate Republicans’ FY2017 budget resolution, the opening salvo in their attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA). The budget resolution would lead to more than 20 million Americans losing their health coverage and would add $9.5 trillion to the federal debt over the next 10 years. “The Affordable Care Act is helping all Americans, from our young people to our seniors,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Instead of working with us to improve this law, President-elect Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans want to once again let insurance and drug companies profit from controlling your health care.”
01.13.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the nomination of -- and the waiver required for -- General James Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense: “I have profound respect for General James Mattis and his distinguished record of service to our nation. General Mattis is to be commended for his strong positions on important issues, such as reaffirming the U.S. commitment to our NATO allies, expressing support for our nuclear agreement with Iran, and —most importantly —rejecting the use of torture by the United States military. “However, I have deep reservations about granting General Mattis a waiver to serve as the Secretary of Defense. Civilian control of the military is a principle that dates back to the founding of this country, and ensuring that this core American principle is protected should be of concern to all Americans. Only once before in our nation’s history has such a waiver been granted. With many other qualified civilian and former military leaders available to serve as Secretary of Defense, I am disappointed that President-elect Trump is asking us to overturn decades of precedent with this nomination. “In order to uphold our Constitution’s guarantee of civilian control of the military, I opposed granting a waiver for General Mattis to serve as Secretary of Defense. If General Mattis is confirmed by the Senate, I look forward to working with him to protect our national security and ensure the continued success of the American military.”
01.12.2017	The Senate Select Committee on Intelligence is considering President-elect Donald Trump's nomination of U.S. Representative Mike Pompeo (R-Kan.) to serve as Director of the Central Intelligence Agency. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement opposing the Pompeo nomination: "At a time when the United States faces significant national security threats at home and abroad, including Russian attacks on our democracy during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, it is more critical than ever that the person directing the Central Intelligence Agency provide trustworthy, non-partisan advice to the President of the United States. "It is alarming that, in addition to denigrating the men and women of our intelligence services, President-elect Donald Trump has nominated Representative Mike Pompeo, one of the most hyper-partisan Members of Congress, to lead the CIA. "A leading crusader on the Republican Benghazi witch hunt that wasted millions of taxpayer dollars solely for political gain, Representative Pompeo has a record of supporting radical positions in Congress including advocating for the use of extreme interrogation techniques, including waterboarding. "These techniques should be called what they are: torture. Torture both violates international norms on human rights and serves as a recruitment tool by radical extremist groups, significantly increasing the danger to our men and women serving in uniform overseas. I condemn the use of torture in the strongest possible terms. "I call on the Senate Intelligence Committee to reject Representative Pompeo’s nomination as Director of the CIA and ensure that the United States never returns to the days when the CIA or any other government agency engages in torture."
01.12.2017	The Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee is considering President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of former Republican presidential candidate Ben Carson to serve as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the Carson nomination: “Dr. Ben Carson has a compelling personal story and a record as a successful surgeon. However, his complete lack of public service experience and his extreme right-wing views make him unsuited for an important senior position such as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. “During his unsuccessful presidential campaign, Dr. Carson revealed critical deficiencies in his grasp of complex public policy issues. In fact, Dr. Carson apparently expressed concern that, given his lack of experience, he might ‘cripple’ the government in a high-level position. “Dr. Carson has also expressed radical views that, if turned into policy, would have profoundly negative effects for working families and urban communities. As just one example, he wants to turn back the clock on rules that prevent housing discrimination based on such factors as race, sex, national origin, and disability. “There are hundreds of experienced, qualified Americans who are prepared serve as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development in a Trump administration. Instead of choosing one of them, President-elect Trump has chosen someone with virtually no relevant experience. I urge the Senate to reject the Carson nomination.”
01.11.2017	The Senate Foreign Relations Committee is considering President-elect Donald Trump's nomination of former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson to be Secretary of State. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement urging the Senate to reject Tillerson's nomination: “I have serious reservations about former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson, President-elect Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State, serving as our nation’s top diplomat. Tillerson has spent forty years searching for petroleum profits, often advancing his shareholders’ interests in direct conflict with U.S. foreign policy interests, making him a troubling choice for such a critical position. "Tillerson’s close ties to Russia are of deep concern to me in light of Russia's efforts to interfere in our electoral process. Under Tillerson’s leadership, ExxonMobil worked against American sanctions on Russia in order to secure more profits. Russian President Vladimir Putin even personally awarded Tillerson his Order of Friendship. "I am also troubled by ExxonMobil’s environmental record under Mr. Tillerson. The State Department is involved in delicate international negotiations to protect our planet, but Tillerson’s primary experience has been presiding over destructive environmental practices and obstructing efforts to combat climate change. “Our Secretary of State must put American interests before corporate profits, especially when it comes to environmental protection and human rights. I urge Republicans and Democrats to come together and reject the Tillerson nomination.”
01.10.2017	The Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee is conducting confirmation hearings this week on President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of General John F. Kelly to be Secretary of Homeland Security. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) issued the following statement on the Kelly nomination: "General John F. Kelly — President-elect Donald Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Homeland Security — has a distinguished record of serving our country, including as Commander of the United States Southern Command. "In addition to its core role of keeping the American people safe, the Department of Homeland Security has responsibility over several areas in which President-elect Trump has made particularly disturbing campaign promises. "For instance, it will be up to General Kelly to counsel President-elect Trump against the deportation of DREAMers, young people who were brought to the United States as children, have grown up as Americans, and know no other home. "I hope that General Kelly will contest President-elect Trump’s inhumane proposal for a deportation force to quickly round up and deport law-abiding immigrants. Instead, he should insist on a careful, smart, and Constitutional approach to addressing unauthorized immigration, not expensive border walls. "As Senators consider the Kelly nomination, I hope that they will receive robust assurances that General Kelly will stand up President-elect Trump and his advisors when necessary to protect the civil liberties of Americans and ensure that immigrants are treated with dignity and respect."
01.10.2017	The Senate Judiciary Committee is conducting confirmation hearings this week on President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of U.S. Senator Jeff Sessions (R-AL) to be Attorney General, the top law enforcement official and defender of civil rights in the United States. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) issued the following statement in opposition to the confirmation of Senator Sessions: “Every American has a stake in ensuring that the United States Attorney General will protect and defend the Constitution and the civil rights of all men and women regardless of race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, disability or immigration status. “Yet Alabama Senator Jeff Sessions has a record that the New York Times has described as ‘a toxic cloud of hostility to racial equality, voting rights, women’s rights, criminal justice reform, and other issues at the heart of the Justice Department’s mandate.’ “In 1986, the U.S. Senate rejected Sessions as a judicial nominee because of his racist views, such as calling the NAACP ‘un-American.’ Those views, including his opposition to critical parts of the Voting Rights Act, should frighten the American people. “When it comes to women’s rights, Sessions voted just four years ago — in 2013 — against the Violence Against Women Act. He has embraced an extremely narrow definition of sexual assault and has doggedly tried to prevent women from accessing reproductive health care. “As a Senator, Sessions has also fiercely opposed LGBT rights. Just seven years ago — in 2009 — Sessions voted against a hate crimes law that protects LGBT Americans. He has also supported amending the United States Constitution to ban same-sex marriage. “In short, Sessions has built his career attacking the civil rights of minorities, women, and the LGBT community. He cannot be trusted to secure the rights of the American people as Attorney General. I urge the U.S. Senate to reject the Sessions nomination.”
01.09.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) met with Interior Secretary Sally Jewell on Monday afternoon to thank her for her leadership of the United States Department of the Interior and to extend best wishes as the Obama administration draws to a close. "I have been honored to collaborate with Secretary Jewell to preserve our nation's natural and cultural treasures — including Minnesota's Boundary Waters. Her work has truly embodied the proverb: 'We do not inherit the Earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children,'" Congresswoman McCollum said. "Secretary Jewell's leadership for our environment and for our Native American brothers and sisters, particularly Native youth, will be long remembered and sorely missed." Congresswoman McCollum and Secretary Jewell worked closely together, particularly given Congresswoman McCollum's role as Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which funds the Department of the Interior. Congresswoman McCollum and Secretary Jewell shared focuses on environmental conservation and improving the conditions for Native American young people.
01.05.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor about the Affordable Care Act and Republican plans to repeal it: I rise today in strong support of the Affordable Care Act, a law that has made a real difference in the lives of Minnesotans and Americans. After seven years attacking the ACA, Republicans still haven’t come up with a plan to replace this law. Instead, they plan to work with President-elect Donald Trump to repeal this law and destroy the progress we have made. Repealing the ACA would leave tens of millions of Americans uninsured. Repealing the ACA would let insurance companies deny coverage to the more than 2 million Minnesotans with pre-existing conditions. And repealing the ACA would eliminate free, high-quality preventive care for hundreds of thousands of families in my district. Make no mistake: Republicans’ ACA repeal plans would turn back the clock and leave millions of Americans just one illness away from financial ruin. For the sake of all Minnesotans and Americans who have benefited from this law, join me in fighting to save the Affordable Care Act.
01.04.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will hold town hall meetings on Jan. 18 and Jan. 26 to discuss her work in Washington and to listen to Fourth District constituents and families about the issues that matter to them. “I look forward to listening to constituents about their policy priorities as we transition from eight years of President Obama’s steady and effective leadership to the administration of President-elect Donald Trump,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Minnesotans are concerned about the future direction of our country and I hope constituents will attend and share their views with me directly.” The first town hall meeting will be held on Wednesday, January 18 from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. It will be held in the auditorium at the Highland Park Community Center, located at 1978 Ford Parkway in St. Paul. The second town hall meeting will be held on Thursday, January 26 from 6:30 to 7:30 p.m. It will be held in the auditorium at the Neighborhood House at the Wellstone Center, located at 179 Robie Street East in St. Paul.
01.03.2017	U.S. Representative Betty McCollum was sworn in as a Member of the United States House of Representatives by House Speaker Paul Ryan on January 3rd, 2017. The Honorable Betty McCollum was elected to serve as representative of Minnesota’s 4th Congressional District. Representative Betty McCollum was added to the rolls of the House upon executing the oath of office.
01.03.2017	A photo of the 115th freshman class was taken on the East Front steps of the United States Capitol.
01.03.2017	The First Session of the 115th United States Congress commences on January 3rd, 2017. Members of the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives will attend the First Session.
01.03.2017	Body text goes here. Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s, when an unknown printer took a galley of type and scrambled it to make a type specimen book. It has survived not only five centuries, but also the leap into electronic typesetting, remaining essentially unchanged. It was popularised in the 1960s with the release of Letraset sheets containing Lorem Ipsum passages, and more recently with desktop publishing software like Aldus PageMaker including versions of Lorem Ipsum.
01.03.2017	Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement after being sworn-in to represent the families of Minnesota's Fourth District in the United States House of Representatives in the 115th Congress: I was honored to be sworn in today as the 115th Congress convened in Washington. I am very grateful to the families of Minnesota’s Fourth District for giving me the opportunity to represent our shared values in the U.S. House of Representatives. As we all know, Republicans control both the U.S. House and Senate. On January 20th, Donald Trump will become President of the United States. It is no secret that I am strongly opposed to many of the policies they are proposing. Our Minnesota values will be under serious threat in the 115th Congress and I intend to stand up for the constituents and families I represent. The dangerous Trump-GOP proposals include: Repealing the Affordable Care Act. President-elect Trump and Republicans have already laid the groundwork to repeal the Affordable Care Act, leaving millions of Americans uninsured and jeopardizing protections for people who have pre-existing medical conditions. Ending Medicare as we know it. House Speaker Paul Ryan has repeatedly advanced proposals to end the Medicare guarantee and turn this life-saving program into a voucher system, which would dramatically raise costs for seniors. Rolling back environmental regulations. President-elect Trump has stocked his cabinet with climate change deniers. Working with Republicans in Congress, he will also work to undermine the vital protections of the Clean Air Act and the Clean Water Act. Deporting DREAMers and mistreating religious minorities. With President-elect Trump promising to deport immigrants who came to the United States as children and indicating support for forcing Muslims to register with the government, Congress may soon be asked to pass bills putting these despicable concepts into law. Cutting taxes for billionaires. A top priority for Republicans is a massive tax cut for billionaires, which would dramatically increase the federal deficit and exacerbate income inequality. These Republican priorities are bad for Minnesota and bad for the United States. They would make it harder for us to build a stronger America where everyone has the opportunity to participate and succeed. You can count on me to represent your voices by standing up and speaking out against policies that harm Minnesotans and our way of life.
01.03.2017	Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi.Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. testdoc1.docQuisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra.testdoc2.docAenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Video of Stars &amp;amp; Stripes Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis. Quisque eros turpis, lacinia vel interdum et, vestibulum pellentesque nunc. Aliquam sagittis quam id sodales condimentum. Pellentesque habitant morbi tristique senectus et netus et malesuada fames ac turpis egestas. Nam ante ipsum, viverra eget libero vitae, condimentum tincidunt sapien. Suspendisse potenti. Aliquam id eros metus. Aenean lobortis dui quis felis luctus, non semper lectus vulputate. Suspendisse varius hendrerit urna et pulvinar. Quisque nec mollis nisi, eget lacinia mi. Video of ◄ Lincoln Memorial, Washington [HD] ► Vestibulum ut mollis magna, ut euismod augue. Ut quis dignissim enim, sed egestas tellus. In vel lectus elementum, congue orci a, blandit nibh. Mauris malesuada nisi sit amet sapien pharetra, vel blandit eros tincidunt. Duis tempor ligula eu nulla porta lacinia. Ut at tortor sit amet lorem aliquet rhoncus. Phasellus rutrum feugiat urna. Suspendisse ligula eros, convallis ut suscipit dictum, porta vel mauris. Quisque ac arcu feugiat urna tempus congue non ut neque. Ut vehicula erat eget quam mattis viverra. Aenean aliquam justo nunc, et hendrerit mi sodales sit amet. Etiam nec mi metus. Sed sit amet volutpat est. Nam auctor interdum dolor vel tristique. Proin volutpat libero sit amet felis placerat fermentum. Fusce congue eleifend vestibulum. Aliquam erat volutpat. Duis varius tortor id pretium condimentum. Duis a libero eu leo molestie elementum eget vitae quam. Phasellus sed urna sit amet quam vulputate consequat. Nullam non est eget neque viverra convallis.
12.29.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the White House announced sanctions against Russian officials and government entities for cyber attacks interfering with the 2016 presidential election: "Russian hacking during the 2016 presidential election was an attack on American democracy. Earlier this month, I urged President Obama to respond proportionally, forcefully, and unequivocally, including by applying sanctions and expelling Russian officials. "Today, President Obama did just that: imposing new sanctions on Russia, ejecting Russian operatives from the United States, and preparing to make public the evidence our government has collected that implicates the highest levels of Russia's government in this attack. I strongly support these decisive steps. "Instead of playing partisan games and vilifying our intelligence professionals, President-elect Donald Trump should join us, demand a fully transparent Congressional investigation into this hacking, and maintain strong pressure on Russia's government."
12.29.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Barack Obama used his power under the Antiquities Act to create the Bears Ears and Gold Butte National Monuments: "With the designation of the Bears Ears National Monument, President Obama has taken a bold and decisive step to protect one of our nation’s greatest ancient cultural and natural areas. The more than 1.3 million acres that make up Bears Ears National Monument include places of both unparalleled natural beauty and strong spiritual significance for many Native Americans. After eight decades of effort, these sacred sites, archaeological gems, and spectacular vistas will finally have the protection that they deserve. "This action would not have been possible without the dedicated advocacy of a historic coalition of sovereign Native American tribes, including the Hopi Nation, Navajo Nation, Ute Mountain Ute Tribe, Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah Ouray, and Zuni Tribe. I applaud their tireless work and am very pleased that they will be included in a newly-formed Bears Ears Commission with input over the management of these sacred sites and treasured spaces. The protection of Bears Ears, and the additional designation of the Gold Butte National Monument, exemplifies the Obama Administration’s extraordinary commitment to the preservation of our national treasures and unprecedented collaboration with tribal nations."
12.28.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum made the following comments on her Facebook page after Secretary of State John Kerry delivered an address on the state of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process: "A two-state solution is only possible when there are partners who are willing to make the hard choices that advance peace. Right now, it appears that neither Israel nor the Palestinians are willing to make the sacrifices needed to resolve their longstanding conflict. "Last week, the United Nations took a very appropriate step by condemning the ongoing construction of illegal Israeli settlements, one of the most serious obstacles to peace. Today, Secretary John Kerry outlined other difficult — but critical — steps that must be taken by Israel and the Palestinians to achieve a durable and lasting peace. "Unfortunately, the incoming Trump-Pence administration has already embraced the extreme policies of the Netanyahu government that are designed to make a Palestinian state impossible. Instead of playing such a divisive role, the United States should be working to urge both Israel and the Palestinians to embrace justice and human rights and bring a lasting end to this conflict."
12.23.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum made the following comments on her Facebook page after the United Nations Security Council voted 14-0, with the United States abstaining, to condemn the illegal expansion of Israeli settlements: "Illegal Israeli settlement expansion is extinguishing the prospects for a two-state solution and the creation of a Palestinian state. I join the United Nations Security Council and all who seek peace in the Middle East in condemning the destructive and uncontrolled Israeli settlements. "I applaud President Obama for allowing the U.N. Security Council to approve the anti-settlement resolution by a vote of 14-0, with the United States abstaining. Only justice and human rights will bring a lasting peace to Israelis and Palestinians."
12.15.2016	Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after President-elect Donald Trump announced his intention to nominate Representative Ryan Zinke (R-Mont.) as Secretary of the Interior: “In the six weeks since his election, President-elect Donald Trump has begun laying the groundwork to roll back nearly a century of progress protecting our environment and conserving our public lands. “The nomination of Representative Ryan Zinke to be Secretary of the Interior is yet another sign that the Trump-Pence administration will favor special interests over conservation and put polluters before America’s public lands and natural treasures. In his short time in the U.S. House, Representative Zinke has voted repeatedly to sell America’s public lands to private interests and sided again and again with the fossil fuel industry. “The Department of the Interior plays a critical role protecting public lands and endangered species, preserving our national and natural heritage, and upholding our obligations to Native Americans. Those are values that I will continue to defend, especially in the face of Trump’s regressive agenda.”
12.15.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the United States Departments of Agriculture and the Interior announced the denial of Twin Metals’ leases for copper-sulfide mining in the Rainy River Drainage Basin and the start of a process to withdraw federal lands in the area from mining: “For decades, Minnesotans and Americans have turned to our Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and Voyageurs National Park as treasured areas of unparalleled natural beauty and unsurpassed recreational opportunities. “Today’s decision to halt the current threat of dangerous, environmentally risky sulfide-ore copper mining is a major victory for our state and our environment. “Working with Governor Dayton and a grassroots coalition of Minnesotans and Americans, we have fought to conserve the million acres and thousand lakes that form these national treasures. I am delighted that Secretaries Tom Vilsack and Sally Jewell have acted to save our Boundary Waters. “While all Minnesotans should celebrate today’s victory, we have more work to do. I will keep advocating for the full withdrawal of these federal lands from mining, including fighting for legislation in Congress that will protect our Boundary Waters forever.”
12.14.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the United States Department of Justice announced plans for a “comprehensive review” of the St. Anthony Police Department: “After the shooting of Philando Castile in July, I called for a full federal investigation by the Department of Justice to determine relevant facts and ensure accountability appropriate to those facts. Today’s announcement of a Department of Justice review of the St. Anthony Police Department is another step in securing the accountability our entire community deserves. “A thorough federal review of the St. Anthony Police Department has the potential to improve policing, build greater trust between citizens and police, and help us achieve our common goal of a safe, non-violent community. I commend Attorney General Loretta Lynch and the Department of Justice for launching this review and look forward to its conclusions.”
12.12.2016	In a post on Medium published Monday, December 12, 2016, Congresswoman Betty McCollum called for a strong, swift and sustained response to defend our democracy from Russian attacks: The Central Intelligence Agency has determined with “high confidence” — the intelligence community’s highest degree of certainty — that Russia launched a state-sponsored cyber attack intended to influence the presidential election to the benefit of Donald Trump. The White House has confirmed that “the Intelligence Community made very clear that [the hacking] was activity directed by the highest levels of the Russian government.” When a foreign power launches cyber attacks, manipulates sensitive political data, and spreads fake news stories to influence who is elected President of the United States, it is tantamount to an attack on the United States. Michael Morell, a distinguished leader at the CIA and the agency’s former acting director, said yesterday: “A foreign government messing around in our elections is, I think, an existential threat to our way of life. To me, and this is to me not an overstatement, this is the political equivalent of 9/11.” There is a clear bipartisan belief that this Russian attack demands a response. For instance, Senator Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) said: “I’m going after Russia in every way you can go after Russia. I think they did interfere in our elections and I want [Russian President Vladimir] Putin personally to pay a price.” I urge President Barack Obama to respond against Russia proportionally, forcefully, and unequivocally. The United States must show President Putin and the world that tampering with an American election will be considered an attack on the American people. For example, President Obama could immediately recall the U.S. ambassador to Moscow and expel Russia’s ambassador to the United States. In light of his government’s actions, allowing Russia’s ambassador to remain in Washington is intolerable. He should be considered persona non grata. Unfortunately, Mr. Trump and his advisors appear not to take these Russian acts of aggression seriously. As a candidate, Mr. Trump repeatedly expressed concerns that the election would be “rigged” against him. Faced with the best American intelligence that the Russian government worked to rig the election, Mr. Trump has chosen to castigate the work of intelligence professionals who put their lives on the line to defend the United States. The American people deserve a full public discussion of Russia’s actions — an undertaking that requires a bipartisan Congressional investigation. I strongly support the establishment of a select committee, made up of Republicans and Democrats, to fully investigate Russia’s attack on our democracy and to conduct public hearings on this issue. A Congressional investigation will also help ensure that the federal government develops a strategy to prevent similar attacks from occurring in the future. I take my responsibility to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States very seriously. That most certainly includes preventing foreign enemies from undermining the legitimacy of our country’s democratic election process. This Russian attack on our democracy demands a strong, swift, and sustained response by the White House and the Congress. With the future of our democracy at stake, I will do everything in my power to protect the freedom we enjoy as Americans.
12.08.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor about her opposition to the FY2017 Continuing Resolution: Mr. Speaker, once again this Congress has abandoned its responsibility to provide a full year appropriation. Months of hard work were thrown away, pushing important funding decisions down the road. I’ve heard from families and business leaders in my district who are worried about the uncertainty that continuing resolutions create in their daily lives. This is not a good way to govern and it is not good for our country. As the Ranking Member of the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, I am disappointed that this bill only provides five months of funding for priorities like clean air, clean water, our national parks and our treaty obligations to tribal nations. We need the security of full-year funding for hospitals and schools in Indian Country, management of our national forests and parks, and the Environmental Protection Agency’s monitoring of toxins that threaten the health of our families. Instead, this legislation leaves these programs in jeopardy again in April. This bill does take an important step to assist with the lead poisoning crisis in Flint, though it is less than what is needed and comes far too late. I also want to thank Chairman Calvert, as well as Chairman Rogers and Ranking Member Lowey, for working with me to ensure that this bill does not contain any new policy riders that would impact the Interior and Environment Subcommittee’s jurisdiction. My biggest concern with this legislation is not Interior related, but instead involves a fundamental principle of our democracy. The decision by Republican Leadership to include language that would limit a full public debate on the Senate confirmation of the nominee for Secretary of Defense is alarming. Civilian control of our military has been a cornerstone of American Democracy since our country’s founding. When the Secretary of Defense position was created in 1947, this principle was enshrined into law. Only once in 69 years has a waiver been granted — and it was done under a fully transparent process. This bill denies that same opportunity for a full hearing in Congress on the nomination of General James Mattis. That should be deeply concerning to all Americans.
12.07.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of Oklahoma Attorney General Scott Pruitt as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency: “President-elect Donald Trump has repeatedly demonstrated a willingness to put polluters’ profits ahead of the health of our communities and the future of our planet. His nomination of Scott Pruitt as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is further proof that the Trump administration will cater to big polluters and the fossil fuel industry. “The Environmental Protection Agency plays a critical role as the watchdog for clean air, clean water, and public health. Unfortunately, Mr. Pruitt’s record as Oklahoma Attorney General includes secretly colluding with energy industry lobbyists to fight important clean air and clean water rules, including those that address climate change. We must not allow this anti-environmental agenda to become the law of the land. “With the Pruitt nomination, President-elect Trump has shown once again that he cannot be trusted as a responsible steward of our environment. As the lead Democrat on the committee that funds the Environmental Protection Agency, I will keep fighting alongside all Americans who care about the health of our communities and the future of our planet.”
12.06.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, released the following statement after the Washington Post reported that the Department of Defense discovered $125 billion in potential cost savings and then suppressed the disclosure of that information: “It is absolutely outrageous that the Defense Department discovered massive potential cost savings, refused to take action on them, and actually hid their findings from Congress. “House Republicans, who have wasted so much time and money on politically-motivated inquiries, should open an immediate investigation into cost savings and financial transparency at the Pentagon. A comprehensive Congressional review will help ensure that future reports on potential cost savings are subject to a full public discussion. “On the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, I will keep asking the tough questions about Defense Department spending. Given the findings of this report on the scope for cost savings at the Pentagon, I continue to strongly oppose President-elect Donald Trump’s proposals for large overall increases in defense spending at the expense of important domestic priorities.”
12.04.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, released the following statement after the United States Army Corps of Engineers announced that it is denying the easement for the Dakota Access Pipeline and requiring a full environmental impact statement for the project: "I applaud the Army Corps of Engineers’ decision to conduct a more thorough review of the route of the Dakota Access Pipeline. A full environmental impact statement will appropriately consider the significant environmental and cultural concerns raised by the Standing Rock Sioux. Today's decision also makes clear that it is in the best interest of all parties to explore new routes that safeguard the environment and protect tribal sovereignty. “As the review takes place, I urge the United States Department of Justice to continue to work with the Army Corps of Engineers and the State of North Dakota to ensure that well-being, safety, and constitutional rights of protesters at Standing Rock are protected. “President Obama's respect for the sovereignty and traditions of the Standing Rock Sioux and all tribal nations has been a hallmark of his administration. I applaud the ongoing efforts of the Department of the Interior and the Department of Justice to fully consult with tribal leaders in North Dakota and across Indian Country." In September, Congresswoman McCollum led 18 Democratic Members of Congress urging the Obama administration to undertake greater consultation with the Standing Rock Sioux on the Dakota Access Pipeline. Last week, Congresswoman McCollum joined Congressman Ron Kind (D-Wisc.) urging Attorney General Loretta Lynch to prioritize the health, safety, and constitutional rights of the protestors at Standing Rock.
11.29.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President-elect Donald Trump’s nomination of House Budget Committee Chairman Tom Price (R-Ga.) to be Secretary of Health and Human Services: “The nomination of Republican Chairman Tom Price to be Secretary of Health and Human Services is clear proof that the guarantee of Medicare for seniors will be a top target for the Trump administration. “Chairman Price has repeatedly supported budgets that would turn Medicare into a voucher program, raising costs for seniors and potentially leaving some uninsured. On the campaign trail, President-elect Trump claimed to oppose these proposals, but the Price appointment shows he is now embracing the Republican Party’s radical Medicare privatization agenda. “In addition to his work to dismantle the promises we have made to seniors with Medicare, Chairman Price has sought to undermine the Affordable Care Act and slash funding for Medicaid. He has also attacked women’s health care, including misguided and dangerous attempts to defund Planned Parenthood and limit millions of women’s access to preventive health care. “In the coming months, I will strongly oppose the Trump-Republican health care proposals in Congress. At the same time, seniors — and all Americans who care about quality, affordable health care — will need to rally together and fight to protect Medicare and all of our vital health care programs.”
11.22.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement in commemoration of National Native American Heritage Month, which is proclaimed each November: "Each November, we celebrate the contributions of First Americans with National Native American Heritage Month. The people of the 567 diverse, federally recognized tribal nations – including the 11 Ojibwe and Dakota nations in Minnesota – play a complex and vital role in our nation’s history, and make our communities and our country stronger today. "Despite centuries of violent discrimination and abusive policies, our country’s Native American cultures and nations have endured. Tribal governments and Native communities have made monumental progress. Our federal trust relationship with tribal nations has grown stronger in the current era of self-governance among Native American tribes—a proud accomplishment that will continue to require the federal government’s full and respectful engagement. "As a co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus and the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I have had the honor to meet with hundreds of tribal leaders to discuss the needs of Indian Country. Working together, we have succeeded in making substantial progress on education, health, and criminal justice issues through measures like the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, increased funding for the Bureau of Indian Education, and special tribal jurisdiction in domestic violence cases. "Despite these concrete steps, we have much more work to do to address disparities, invest in Indian Country, and create more opportunities for all Native Americans – especially Native youth. As we honor the achievements and resilience of our First Americans, I pledge to continue working to ensure that our Native American brothers and sisters have every opportunity to succeed."
11.16.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after Ramsey County Attorney John Choi charged a St. Anthony Police Officer in the July shooting death of Philando Castile: “After the shooting of Philando Castile in July, I called for a Justice Department investigation to establish the facts of this case and ensure appropriate accountability. With assistance from the Justice Department, County Attorney John Choi and state and local law enforcement have conducted a thorough and fair investigation. “Today’s announcement of charges against the officer involved is a step in the process of accountability for Mr. Castile’s death. The forthcoming criminal trial will offer transparency to the public, while allowing a judge and jury to make the ultimate determination in this case. “As this case proceeds through the criminal justice system, we must continue to work together to build a stronger, more trusting relationship between our police and the communities they serve and protect. At this difficult time, we should also keep Philando Castile’s loved ones in our thoughts and prayers.”
11.14.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks on the House Floor this afternoon about President-elect Donald Trump’s appointment of Stephen Bannon, the former Executive Editor of Breitbart News and a leader of the alt-right movement, as chief strategist and senior counselor in the White House: “Donald Trump’s hateful campaign has divided our nation. After the election, Mr. Trump promised Americans that he would ‘bind the wounds of division.’ “Yet his appointment of Stephen Bannon as chief White House strategist is proof of the ugly direction Mr. Trump intends to take our country. Bannon built his media career catering to white supremacists and anti-Semites. The fact that Republicans have been silent on Bannon’s appointment is a disturbing sign. It shows that the Republican Party has embraced Trump’s campaign agenda of blatant sexism, racial bigotry, and religious intolerance. “This un-American ideology must be confronted both here in Congress and in our communities. For millions of people, including families in my district, Trump’s election means they are now living under a shroud of fear. Here in this House and at home in Minnesota, I pledge to keep fighting to defend our fellow Americans from Trump’s extreme agenda. “If we want a strong America where all families have the opportunity to succeed, we must stand united and reject those who fan the flames of hate.”
11.10.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement ahead of the observance of Veterans Day on Nov. 11: “For more than 200 years, the United States Armed Forces have bravely served and sacrificed to protect the ideals that we value and the freedoms that we cherish as Americans. “On Veterans Day, we honor the service of all the women and men who serve and have served in the United States Air Force, Army, Coast Guard, Marine Corps, Merchant Marine, and Navy. We also reflect on the tremendous sacrifice made by their family members and loved ones. Today, we also pause to remember those who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our country. As we honor their bravery, we pray for the family members, loved ones, friends, and comrades they leave behind. “More than saluting their service and memorializing their sacrifice, as a country we have a moral obligation to take care of our veterans when they return home. I am proud of the work we have done together for Minnesota’s 400,000 veterans. We have improved health care for current and former servicemen and women, expanded access to educational opportunities and job training programs for our servicemembers returning home, and acted to end the scourge of veteran homelessness. “We have more work to do — and I will continue to work to honor the sacrifice of our veterans and their families by ensuring that they receive the gratitude and support that they have earned.”
11.03.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum today reminded young people in Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District that the deadline to submit applications for nomination to U.S. Service Academies is at the close of business on Monday, November 7. "It is my honor to nominate some of our community's outstanding young people for admission to our nation's service academies," McCollum said. "Admission to these institutions offers the opportunity to serve our country and receive a world-class education. I encourage all interested students to apply by Monday." As a Member of Congress, McCollum nominates a limited number of Fourth District residents for admission to the U.S. Air Force Academy, the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, the U.S. Military Academy, and the U.S. Naval Academy. The honor of attending a service academy comes with an obligation and commitment to serve in the military for a minimum of five years upon graduation. Information about the application process and an application form is available here.
11.02.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined more than 100 House Democrats on Tuesday urging Republicans to stop their attempt to raid more than $1 billion from the Pell Grant program to pay for other federal spending. Instead of diverting these funds, McCollum and her colleagues demanded that this funding be used for its original intent: making higher education more affordable for current and future students. To meet this goal, McCollum and House Democrats support raising the maximum size of a Pell Grant and restoring access to year-round support. “I am proud to stand with my Democratic colleagues to make college more affordable for Minnesota students and families,” McCollum said. “Instead of diverting funds from education and making it harder for students from low-income families to attend college, we should be working together to safeguard Pell Grant funding and support affordable higher education.” In the letter to House and Senate leaders, McCollum and her colleagues cite research on the importance of Pell Grants for students from low-income families and note the hardship that has fallen on many students since the elimination of year-round Pell Grants in 2011. In addition, the letter notes that increasing the maximum size of a Pell Grant from $4,860 to $5,000 would reduce student debt burdens. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Chairmen Cochran, Rogers, Blunt, and Cole and Ranking Members Mikulski, Lowey, Murray, and DeLauro: The Pell Grant program is the bedrock of the federal student aid system, yet today’s maximum Pell Grant award now covers less than 30 percent of college costs at public universities – the smallest share since the 1979-1980 academic year when the grant covered 77 percent – forcing low-income students to more heavily rely on loans. As the Senate and House Committees on Appropriations and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education (LHHS) Subcommittees work to advance Fiscal Year (FY) 2017 appropriations, we urge you to ensure all available resources in the Pell Grant program are used to improve college access and affordability for low-income students. Due to lower-than-expected program costs, the Pell Grant program has amassed a surplus of more than $7.8 billion. The surplus rescissions of $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion in the Senate and House FY 2017 Appropriations bills, respectively, threaten Congress’ ability to meet future needs of students. While the current fiscal climate makes the Pell Grant surplus an attractive funding vehicle for Congressional priorities outside of the Pell Grant program, we write to remind you that this funding is intended to serve the postsecondary educational needs of our nation's low-income students. Specifically, we urge you to utilize the FY 2017 appropriations process as an opportunity to further the goal of the Pell Grant program by using a portion of the surplus to lessen the burden of college costs for needy students through restoration of year-round Pell and an increase in the maximum discretionary award. And, we ask that you protect the remainder of the surplus for the sole use of the Pell Grant program. Research suggests that making the Pell Grant available to students during the summer term leads to higher levels of persistence and degree completion. The elimination of year-round Pell in 2011 has impacted nearly 800,000 Pell Grant recipients each year. Equally concerning is the expiration of the annual inflation adjustment to the Pell Grant which was established under the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. Without the adjustment, the value of the Pell Grant will continue to go down at a time when the cost of higher education is increasing. It is important to note that simply reinstating year-round Pell eligibility without also increasing the maximum discretionary award only allows students to exhaust their lifetime eligibility more quickly without seeing any new dollars to help pay for college. Increasing the maximum discretionary award from $4,860 to $5,000 will put much needed money in the pockets of low-income students and, when paired with the supplemental funding provided in statute, set us on a path to restore the purchasing power of Pell. Both restoration of year-round Pell and an increase in the maximum discretionary award in the FY 2017 appropriations vehicle will bolster efforts during reauthorization of the Higher Education Act to safeguard the value of Pell for current and future students, all while preserving enough program surplus funding to guarantee solid financial standing of the program for future years. While we recognize and understand FY 2017 budgetary constraints, decisions to fund priorities outside of the Pell Grant program should not be made on the backs of low-income students. Any rescission to the Pell Grant surplus is a direct threat to educational opportunity for our nation's low-income students. We urge you to honor Congress' promise that all individuals, regardless of income, should have an opportunity to further their education by opposing any and all rescissions to the Pell Grant program surplus. Sincerely, /s/
11.02.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement about this morning’s attack that killed two police officers in Des Moines, Iowa: “This morning we awoke to the horrific and shocking news that two Des Moines area police officers were ambushed and killed in the line of duty. This attack is another reminder that men and women in law enforcement put their lives on the line to protect our families every day. I am grateful for their dedicated service — especially those local law enforcement officers who apprehended the suspect in this attack. My thoughts and prayers are with the fallen officers’ families, loved ones and colleagues. Americans must stand united to build safe and non-violent communities for our citizens and our police officers.”
11.01.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke with Fourth District seniors on Tuesday morning about open enrollment in Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D, which continues through December 7. The event, organized by the Metropolitan Area Agency on Agency and held at the West 7th Street Community Center, included a discussion by trained experts about Medicare options and a tutorial on how to use Medicare's Plan Finder. "Right now, Medicare beneficiaries should review and choose a Medicare Part D prescription drug plan or a Medicare Advantage plan for 2017," McCollum said. "You have until December 7 to make any changes you need to your Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D selection." McCollum also discussed her strong support for Medicare, Social Security, and the newly-reauthorized Older Americans Act. "I am working to keep the promises made over 80 years ago with Social Security and 50 years ago with Medicare," McCollum said. "And I will continue fighting so no legislation is passed that cuts your benefits or makes it more difficult for you to see your doctor."
10.17.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement following reports that Antofagasta, the Chilean parent company of Twin Metals, could face up to a $24 million fine for violating Chile’s environmental protection laws: “The revelation of Antofagasta’s environmental violations at a Chilean mine is yet another reason to reject this company’s plans to conduct dangerous mining in Minnesota’s Rainy River Drainage Basin. “Sulfide-ore copper mining is an inherently risky activity and would likely lead to permanent damage to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and Voyageurs National Park. Antofagasta’s poor environmental record conducting this type of mining in its home country exacerbates that risk. “The Obama administration should act quickly to prevent Antofagasta from conducting sulfide-ore copper mining in the Rainy River Drainage Basin. We simply cannot allow a company that shows a reckless disregard for environmental regulations to mine next to our Minnesota treasures.”
10.14.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined state and local elected officials and many community leaders today to break ground on the Rondo Commemorative Plaza. In one of the most painful chapters in St. Paul’s and Minnesota’s history, Rondo — a thriving and vibrant African-American neighborhood — was destroyed block by block, street by street, and brick by brick for a highway, without any consideration of the impact on the families who lived there. The Rondo Commemorative Plaza aims to preserve and promote the cultural legacy of the Rondo neighborhood through displays and multimedia presentations. “Rondo Commemorative Plaza will be a place to remember the vibrant Rondo neighborhood, a proud and thriving community that was ripped apart during construction of Interstate Highway 94 more than four decades ago,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud to support this project, which will provide educational displays and serve as a gathering place for people to learn, appreciate and remember the history of Rondo and to celebrate the spirit of its residents that lives on today.” In her remarks at the groundbreaking ceremony, Congresswoman McCollum praised the community leaders whose tireless leadership made today’s groundbreaking on the Rondo Commemorative Plaza possible. “This day would not have been made possible without the outstanding leadership, dedication and commitment from Marvin ‘Roger’ Anderson, Floyd Smaller, Nathaniel Khaliq, Debbie Montgomery and countless other community leaders who have been working on this project for decades,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This plaza is the way forward both to honor a painful legacy and to give a rebirth to Rondo for future generations. I look forward to the grand opening of the Rondo Commemorative Plaza, which will provide a big step in healing and reconciliation of the past.”
10.06.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) applauded a $100,000 grant to the New Brighton-based Upper Midwest Community Policing Institute to train law enforcement officers to de-escalate situations involving military veterans in crisis. “Our country has an obligation to ensure that all of our veterans have the support and resources they need. As part of that commitment, we must ensure our law enforcement officers have the skills and capacity to safely de-escalate crisis situations involving veterans,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This grant will help our police better assist veterans and their families with the unique difficulties they may encounter in their transition to civilian life.” The grant, provided by the Department of Justice’s Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) program, will fund classroom training for law enforcement, fire, EMS personnel, 911 dispatchers, and campus and hospital security that have regular contact with returning service members in crisis. “Through initiatives like the grant announced today, the COPS program provides essential resources to law enforcement officers in Minnesota and across America,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “That is why I have been proud to support funding for the COPS program in Congress.”
09.28.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, released the following statement after the House passed a continuing resolution that funds the government through December 9: “Tonight I joined with my colleagues to fulfill our most basic responsibility: funding our government for the next 10 weeks. While not perfect, the continuing resolution includes a significant victory for American families by providing $1.1 billion in funding to combat the Zika virus. In addition, the House voted earlier today to authorize $170 million to address the Flint water crisis, an important first step in ensuring the children and families of Flint receive the resources they need. These victories were only possible because House Democrats stood firm and insisted that Congress act on these public health emergencies. “Unfortunately, however, the passage of a short-term continuing resolution means that the American economy is once again denied the certainty that comes with a federal budget. Instead of doing their jobs this year, House Republicans chose to blow off their budget deadline, fight among themselves, and even defeat one of their own appropriations bills. Tonight, House Democrats walked across the aisle and demonstrated our willingness to govern responsibly by helping pass this stopgap funding measure. When Congress returns in November, I hope Republican leadership will work with me and my Democratic colleagues to pass a full-year budget that puts the American people, not powerful special interests, first.”
09.28.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) received the National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome’s (NOFAS) Leadership Award at an event in Washington Tuesday evening. The award was given in recognition of Congresswoman McCollum’s work, beginning during her tenure in the Minnesota State House, to prevent fetal alcohol syndrome and to ensure that people living with fetal alcohol spectrum disorders receive the services they need. After receiving the NOFAS Leadership Award, Congresswoman McCollum delivered the following remarks: “Thank you Chairman Vig and thank you NOFAS for this special honor. And everyone here, thank you for your work on this important issue. Your dedication is helping to educate and make a difference in communities across this country. And as a nation, we too often push aside conversations about alcohol abuse, including fetal alcohol spectrum disorders. “Health care providers may offer a pamphlet on the topic for an expecting woman to read or mention it during a prenatal checkup. We know that a pregnant woman who drinks during pregnancy faces shame and guilt, which makes it difficult to ask for help from a health care provider or a loved one. Because of this, children with the disorders are often misdiagnosed when they have emotional or behavioral issues associated with prenatal alcohol exposure. And all of this means, they don’t receive the support or treatment they need. “But the work NOFAS and so many of your state chapters are doing are helping to address these challenges, including in Minnesota. I first started working on this health care crisis as a State Legislator in Minnesota. I heard from families, health care providers, educators, and community leaders about the need for better education and resources for parents. “Around that time, Susan Carlson, our state’s first lady, opened the Minnesota Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome. For the past 20 years, Susan and the entire Minnesota team have been working every day to achieve their vision: “a world where women do not drink alcohol during pregnancy and individuals living with Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders are identified, recognized and valued." “This year, Minnesota became the first state to require foster parents have training to recognize and treat children with fetal alcohol syndrome. Our state’s law will help bring additional attention to this issue and ensure foster parents have new strategies to better help children. But this law would not have passed without the strong bipartisan coalition. A coalition that includes community leaders, health care providers, disability advocates, and others stakeholders. “Earlier this year, I convened a series of roundtables to talk about health disparities impacting our communities. Alcohol abuse and prenatal alcohol use by pregnant women was one of the first health issues brought up. Now we know this isn’t just a problem in Minnesota, but in communities across the country. And we need to work with every community, using culturally appropriate strategies, to incorporate effective education tools that better support pregnant women, children, and their families. “I know the work before us is not easy. It will take all of us working together to improve education about alcohol abuse, reduce the stigma faced by mothers, and ensure all families and children have the support and resources they need to be healthy and successful. “Thank you for your commitment and dedication to promoting healthy pregnancies and families. Again, thank you for this very special recognition.”
09.23.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined President Barack Obama and other dignitaries this morning on the National Mall for the official opening of the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. The museum, the 19th museum and gallery of the Smithsonian Institution, is a state-of-the-art facility that interprets the African-American experience in the United States through the theme “a people’s journey, a nation’s story.” “More than 240 years after the founding of our country, the new National Museum of African American History and Culture will finally tell the diverse stories of African Americans throughout the United States in a beautiful location on our National Mall,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “As the lead Democrat on the committee that funds the Smithsonian Institution, it has been my honor to support this museum and work with many others to secure the federal funding that pushed this long-awaited project across the finish line.” In November 2003, Congresswoman McCollum voted for the bill that created the museum. In the years that followed, Congresswoman McCollum worked as the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee to secure funding to complete the museum. In April 2015, Congresswoman McCollum was instrumental in bringing the museum’s founding director, Dr. Lonnie Bunch, to Minnesota to engage the Fourth District’s African-American community about the museum.
09.22.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today announced a federal grant to the Hmong American Partnership (HAP) that will help create 40 jobs on the East Side of St. Paul. Congresswoman McCollum advocated for the $800,000 in federal funding, including writing to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in April to support the proposal. “This federal grant will create jobs, grow our economy, and help Fourth District families secure their economic future,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud to have been a strong advocate for this grant and I am excited to see the positive change it will bring over the next three years.” The $800,000 grant, from the Administration for Children and Families’ Office of Community Services within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, will allow HAP Transportation to expand its social enterprise bus transportation business and create 40 jobs for low-income residents of the East Side and Frogtown neighborhoods of St. Paul over the next three years.
09.21.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered remarks on national security at this morning’s House Democratic Caucus press conference with Caucus Chairman Xavier Becerra (D-Calif.) and Vice Chairman Joe Crowley (D-N.Y.). Below are the Congresswoman’s remarks: “As a Minnesotan, I want to be perfectly clear: the attack in St. Cloud was a vicious attack, it was terrorism, likely done by a lone wolf. And we are thankful that none of the victims lost their lives, but it was an act that terrified the people in the mall and brought great, great pause and concern to people in Minnesota and throughout the United States. “I, along with Mr. Crowley, would like to reflect for a moment on an off-duty police officer who rose up to the call and quickly took control of the situation so that it didn’t spin any further out of control. Back home, President Obama has been in touch with Governor Dayton and we know that the FBI will conduct a full and complete investigation. Minnesotans have many questions, and they deserve to be answered. “I also want to state very clearly that I am so proud to represent Minnesota, a state where all races, faiths, and political affiliations stood united in rejecting all forms of violence, extremism, and hate. There was a vigil last night in St. Cloud where people from all over the state of Minnesota, and the St. Cloud region, came together and expressed solidarity to get answers and move forward. “Most importantly, they stood in solidarity with our Muslim communities, not only in Minnesota but across the country. We know how important and what a critical asset in countering terrorism that these communities have been in wanting to get the answers themselves and stop the extremism and violence that has happened. But Donald Trump’s attacks on our Muslim American friends, neighbors, and co-workers undermine those efforts to keep Americans safe. “As my colleagues are pointing out, we have work here to do in Congress. This work also reflects the work that Mr. Crowley and I need to have for the FBI to have all the tools in the toolbox to move forward on [the New York and Minnesota attack investigations]. “This Congress has failed to do its job and has failed to pass appropriations bills on the House floor on time. These Republican games -- and that’s what they are, folks, they are election games -- just need to stop. We need to pass a budget, we need to pass these bills, and we need to stop playing partisan politics with our national security. “Americans need to know they are going to be kept safe by the people who wear a uniform, whether it is police, military, whether it is someone who is working on the lines of collecting intelligence. We need to make sure a budget is passed on time so that cities, counties, states, and, yes, our military and homeland security know that they have the dollars to plan and the resources to move forward. “I can’t say this enough as a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee: I know that we face serious national security challenges around the globe. We have ISIL, North Korea, Russia and the Chinese expansion in the South China Sea. “Folks, we need to get serious about getting these budgets and appropriations bills passed on time so that our intelligence community, our defense community, and those who work in homeland security here at home have the tools and can make the plans to keep Americans safe. “I know that my Democratic colleagues stand ready to make these investments in national security, homeland security, and the intelligence necessary to keep Americans safe. “I call upon my Republican colleagues to walk across the aisle, not just reach, and work with us on this. Working together, we can get this done. Their Conference needs to resolve its own internal differences so that the American public knows that their Congress will work for them and keep them safe.”
09.19.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today applauded a multi-year, multi-million dollar United States Department of Education grant to Hamline University, as part of a joint initiative with the Minnesota Department of Education, for professional development activities that will enhance the instruction English language learners receive in Minnesota schools. “I am delighted that Hamline University is receiving a federal grant for this exciting joint project. With this funding, Hamline will prepare administrators and classroom teachers to educate English language learners in our community and throughout Minnesota,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Minnesota’s diverse student population includes many students who speak their native languages at home. Investing in education for English language teachers will help prepare all our students to succeed in the 21st century.” Congresswoman McCollum has been a strong supporter of this joint project between Hamline University and the Minnesota Department of Education. In January 2016, she wrote to the United States Department of Education to urge them to provide funding for the initiative. Under the terms of the grant announced today, Hamline University will receive more than $300,000 this year, the first in the five-year grant period.
09.18.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the terrorist attack in St. Cloud: "Last night's violence in St. Cloud can only be described as a terrorist attack. While federal, state and local authorities conduct a complete investigation, my best wishes and prayers go out to the victims, their families, and the officer who responded so courageously. As we condemn this attack, Minnesotans stand united in rejecting all forms of extremism and hate speech that lead to violence. Let's find the resolve to respond to this horrible act in ways that makes Minnesota stronger."
09.14.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), the Democratic co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, and 18 House Democrats wrote today to President Barack Obama to urge greater consultation between the United States Army Corps of Engineers and the Standing Rock Sioux over the route of the Dakota Access Pipeline. “The federal government has a moral and legal trust responsibility to ensure that federally permitted projects do not threaten historically or culturally significant tribal places, the trust lands of tribal nations, or the waters that run through them. We stand with tribal leaders in asking you to uphold our federal trust responsibility and protect tribal interests in this and future permitting decisions by the United States Army Corps of Engineers,” the lawmakers wrote. “In the instance of the Dakota Access Pipeline, despite its location within a mile of the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation, the United States Army Corps of Engineers failed in its responsibility to engage in meaningful consultation and collaboration with potentially impacted tribal nations. The lack of proper consultation on the Dakota Access Pipeline has been detrimental to the interests of all stakeholders in this issue, from the tribal governments whose heritage and lands are at risk to the workers hired to construct this pipeline who now face uncertain conditions.” The full text of the letter — which was also signed by Representatives Ben Ray Luján, Raúl M. Grijalva, Frank Pallone, Jr., Raul Ruiz, Michael M. Honda, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Jared Huffman, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Derek Kilmer, Tony Cárdenas, Louise McIntosh Slaughter, Mark Pocan, Earl Blumenauer, John Conyers, Jr., Tulsi Gabbard, Donald S. Beyer, Jr., Denny Heck, and Chellie Pingree — is below: Dear President Obama: As Members of the Congressional Native American Caucus, we are writing to you to share our deep concerns with the lack of tribal consultation in the routing of the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL). In recent weeks, we have heard from the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe about the destructive impact that the current route of this pipeline could have upon the tribe’s sacred and cultural places, as well as the risks posed to their waters, due to the lack of proper engagement from the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE). We stand with tribal leaders in asking you to uphold our federal trust responsibility and protect tribal interests in this and future permitting decisions by the USACE. The federal government has a moral and legal trust responsibility to ensure that federally permitted projects do not threaten historically or culturally significant tribal places, the trust lands of tribal nations, or the waters that run through them. Pursuant to Executive Order 13175 of November 6, 2000, and reinforced by the Presidential Memorandum on Tribal Consultation of November 5, 2009, the executive departments and agencies of the federal government are to engage in “regular and meaningful consultation and collaboration with tribal officials”. In the instance of the DAPL, despite its location within a mile of the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation, the USACE failed in its responsibility to engage in meaningful consultation and collaboration with potentially impacted tribal nations. We are encouraged by the September 9th announcement from the Department of Justice, the Department of the Army, and the Department of the Interior that the Army would be halting construction of the DAPL on Army Corps land and undertaking a review of its previous decisions about the Lake Oahe site. The Standing Rock Sioux Tribe is currently petitioning the courts to determine whether the approval process for the DAPL was fully compliant with the National Historic Preservation Act, the Clean Water Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, and our federal trust responsibility. We urge the Administration to maintain its hold on further permitting for the DAPL project until the concerns of the Tribe about the protection of their sacred sites, homelands, and water quality have been fully addressed. In the meantime, we are pleased to see that the Administration will be holding formal government-to-government consultations this fall to improve tribal input on infrastructure decisions. We look forward to working with you on legislative proposals to ensure the preservation of tribal sacred and historic sites, protection of trust lands, and access to clean water are prioritized for the DAPL and other USACE project decisions. As Members of Congress and as fellow trustees for tribal lands with the Administration, we are deeply disappointed in this lapse in our nation-to-nation relationship. Ultimately, the lack of proper consultation on the DAPL has been detrimental to the interests of all stakeholders in this issue, from the tribal governments whose heritage and lands are at risk to the workers hired to construct this pipeline who now face uncertain conditions. When tribal consultation is neglected, both tribal nations and our nation as a whole suffer. Sincerely,
09.14.2016	Today, the Minnesota congressional delegation urged support for Minnesota’s bid to host the 2023 World’s Fair. In a bipartisan letter to Secretary of State John Kerry and Secretary of Commerce Penny Pritzker, the Minnesota lawmakers highlighted the state’s innovative economy, welcoming community, and many accomplishments in promoting health and wellness. “Minnesota’s Expo 2023 is a strong candidate to host the World’s Fair,” the lawmakers wrote. “It will foster an exchange of ideas, encourage new global partnerships and advance innovation in health and wellness that will benefit the state, country and world. We urge full and fair consideration of a recommendation that the bid is in the national interest.” The full text of the letter, which was signed by Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, John Kline, Keith Ellison, Tim Walz, Rick Nolan, Erik Paulsen, and Tom Emmer, is below: Dear Secretary Kerry and Secretary Pritzker: We write in support of Minnesota’s bid to host the World’s Fair in 2023. Hosting the World’s Fair in the United States for the first time since 1984 will strengthen U.S. economic leadership around the world. As a global leader in health, the theme of “Wellness and Well-Being for All” will highlight Minnesota’s many accomplishments in promoting health and wellness. Minnesota is home to a welcoming community and an innovative economy. Every year we host hundreds of thousands of international visitors who come as students, patients, tourists, or on business. These global ties help to fuel our economic growth. Minnesota has a strong history of innovation. Our universities and companies are constantly bringing new products and services to the market which help people live healthier lives. Of all the states, Minnesota has the second most Fortune 500 companies per capita and the Minneapolis-Saint Paul region offers many exciting opportunities to showcase the creative work these companies are doing that drives our economy forward. Minnesota’s leading institutions have come together to ensure that visitors will experience firsthand our history, culture and recreational activities. The robust transportation network will easily bring people to and from our venues, including the University of Minnesota, State Fair Grounds, stadiums and parks throughout the region. Visitors from across the globe will have a unique chance to explore our state’s accomplishments in health, medicine, and wellness. Minnesota’s Expo 2023 is a strong candidate to host the World’s Fair. It will foster an exchange of ideas, encourage new global partnerships and advance innovation in health and wellness that will benefit the state, country and world. We urge full and fair consideration of a recommendation that the bid is in the national interest. We thank you for considering this request and look forward to working with you. Sincerely, /s/
09.12.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the House passed the House amendment to S. 246, the Alyce Spotted Bear and Walter Soboleff Commission on Native Children Act by voice vote: “I am very pleased that the House recognized the importance of understanding and addressing the needs of Native American children by passing this bipartisan bill today. With Native American children and youth facing higher rates of poverty, violence, and foster care placement and considerably worse health outcomes and educational attainment than other children, it is clear our country has more work to do to support Native American young people. That is why bringing tribal leaders and tribal youth together within this Commission to help identify solutions is so important. I was proud to sponsor the House version of this bill with my friend, Representative Tom Cole (R-O.K.), and I appreciate Senator Heidi Heitkamp (D-N.D.)’s leadership on this issue in the Senate. I look forward to the Senate passing this bill and President Obama signing it into law.”
09.08.2016	WASHINGTON — Ahead of this evening’s National Football League season opener, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, issued the following statement on the Washington football team’s racist name and mascot: “The National Football League starts another season tonight in which Commissioner Roger Goodell and team owners are profiting from a racist team name and mascot that mocks Native Americans as nineteenth-century caricature. The NFL’s Washington Red****s team name and mascot is a testament to racial bigotry and commercial exploitation. No other race, ethnicity or religious group in America is treated with such disrespect. I am calling on NFL players and fans of all races to stand up and speak out against the NFL’s racist treatment of Native Americans. It’s time to change the mascot.”
09.07.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered remarks on the Zika crisis on House Floor Wednesday afternoon. The Congresswoman’s remarks followed the House’s return from a seven-week recess called by House Republicans, the longest summer recess of the modern era. The Congresswoman’s full remarks are below and video is available here: “Mr. Speaker, I rise today to demand this House act on the Zika crisis. The Zika virus is being transmitted by mosquitoes right inside the United States now. Parts of Miami are under Zika-related travel warnings. The total number of American cases has climbed to almost 17,000, including 1,600 expecting mothers. Six months ago, the public health experts told us what they needed to address Zika. House Republicans have ignored those experts. Now, the Centers for Disease Control and state public health agencies are running out of money for Zika response. The CDC Director tells us that the money to fight this disease will be gone by the end of September. The NIH Director has warned that Congressional inaction is cannibalizing resources for other public health needs. Families in states like Florida, Louisiana, and Texas are in danger. They cannot wait any longer for Congress to act. This House must give our public health experts the resources they need and help keep the American people safe.”
09.06.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after President Obama announced $90 million in funding for the clean-up of unexploded American ordnance in Laos: “More than 40 years after American bombing in Laos ended, unexploded ordnance dropped by the United States continues to threaten the lives of Laotians and hamper economic development throughout the country. For years, I have advocated for increased resources to ensure the United States meets its moral obligation to clean up these bombs. In March, I led a letter to President Obama urging him to provide more funding for this important endeavor. President Obama’s announcement today of $90 million in funding for unexploded ordnance clean-up in Laos over the next three years is a very important step to meeting our country’s moral obligation to the Laotian people. In the years to come, I will continue to push for sustained funding to address this legacy of war once and for all.”
09.05.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement ahead of Labor Day: “On Monday, Labor Day, we celebrate the success of America’s working men and women, past and present, who built our great country and created a strong middle class. Through organizing and bargaining, the American labor movement established the bedrock values that we often take for granted such as the minimum wage, the 40-hour work week, and safety and health measures that protect workers on the job. This Labor Day, we must redouble our efforts to put working families first and to help every Minnesotan and American secure their economic future. When the 2008 financial crisis devastated many working families in Minnesota and across the United States, Congressional Democrats and President Obama worked together to stabilize our economy and begin an economic recovery. As that recovery continues, Minnesotans and Americans are still rightfully concerned about economic security. I hear every day from constituents who are worried about job security and their wages keeping pace with inflation. Young workers in our community wonder whether they will ever have enough money to buy a home or someday start a family. Working parents are concerned about how they will afford college tuition for their children. Seniors and people nearing retirement worry about both their financial security and whether Social Security will be there for them. This Labor Day, we must start with a clear principle: No one working 40 hours a week in America should live in poverty. That’s why I support raising the minimum wage to help lift millions of working Americans out of poverty. And I am proud to co-sponsor the Paycheck Fairness Act to finally close the pay gap between women and men. To help our young people find jobs and make it easier for families to afford college, Congress must act to improve workforce training and reduce the cost of tuition. And seniors in our community have my promise that I will always work to defend and strengthen Social Security and Medicare. Especially important to Minnesota families this year is protecting American workers and consumers from a very bad trade deal – the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Our elected leaders should always put the wellbeing of working people ahead of corporate profits, which is why we must defeat TPP. I will continue to use my Congressional oversight authority to oppose TPP and instead support trade agreements that reflect the interests of hard working Americans. As we celebrate the accomplishments of America’s working women and men this Monday, we also must remember that there is more work to do to guarantee economic security for working families.”
09.03.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement after the remains of Jacob Wetterling were recovered: “With today’s heartbreaking news, all of Minnesota grieves with Patty, Jerry, and the entire Wetterling family. At this tragic time, it is my hope that Jacob will finally rest in peace as he is brought home to his family and so many who love him. Amid our sadness, we remain profoundly grateful for the tireless advocacy and leadership Jacob’s family has provided on behalf of our country’s missing and exploited children. I know that all Minnesotans and Americans will join me in keeping the Wetterling family in our thoughts and prayers.”
08.31.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) toured small businesses and met with civic leaders in White Bear Lake on August 31. Congresswoman McCollum's productive conversations touched on the needs of the community and its businesses. In addition to White Bear Lake Mayor Jo Emmerson, Congresswoman McCollum also met with City Manager Ellen Richter and John Lupo, the president of the White Bear Lake Chamber of Commerce. Congresswoman McCollum visited two restaurants — Grandma's Bakery and Key's Restaurant — and several boutique stores: Goodthings, Primp, and John Henry. Later in the day, Congresswoman McCollum visited Mahtomedi High School for a ceremony honoring O.H. Anderson Elementary School teacher John Petronek for 50 years in the classroom. Petronek is a fifth-grade science teacher at Anderson Elementary. Finally, Congresswoman McCollum visited the Sheet Metal Workers Union Local #10 in Maplewood to tour their apprenticeship training facility that trains our community's young people to fabricate, install, and service a wide range of metal products.
08.29.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined National Park Service representatives and a large group of fairgoers celebrating the National Park Service's 100th birthday on National Park Service Centennial Day at the Minnesota State Fair on Aug. 29. "I enjoyed spending a beautiful day at our Great Minnesota Get-Together celebrating the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service," Congresswoman McCollum said. "This event is a great way to build awareness of the amazing National Parks that Minnesotans can enjoy." Hosted jointly by Minnesota's five National Park Service units and organized by the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area, National Park Service Centennial Day at the Fair was designed for kids of all ages with activity stations that encouraged fairgoers to "Find Your Park."
08.26.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined Secretary of the Interior Sally Jewell for two stops in St. Paul on Friday as part of the Secretary's National Park Service Centennial tour. At their first stop, Congresswoman McCollum, Secretary Jewell — along with Congressman Keith Ellison (DFL-Minn.), St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman (DFL-Minn.) and other dignitaries — canoed on the Mississippi River as part of a joint project with the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area, Wilderness Inquiry, and Outdoor Afro, an organization that connect urban, African-American youth to nature. "It was a beautiful day to canoe with our community's young people on our very own Mississippi with Secretary Jewell," Congresswoman McCollum said. "I appreciated the work of MNRRA staff, Wilderness Inquiry, and Outdoor Afro to make this canoe trip possible." After the canoe trip, Congresswoman McCollum and Secretary Jewell joined youth participants in Outdoor Afro for a conversation with National Aeronautics and Space Administration astronauts aboard the International Space Station about space, nature, and science. Video from the conversation with the astronauts is available here. "A highlight of U.S. Department of the Interior Secretary Sally Jewell's visit to St. Paul was the opportunity to join young people participating inOutdoor Afro and NASA astronauts aboard the International Space Station in an exciting conversation about our National Parks and the view of them from space," Congresswoman McCollum said.
08.25.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) joined federal, state and local officials Thursday afternoon to cut the ribbon on a new sign at the Boom Site on the St. Croix National Scenic Riverway. The ribbon cutting coincided with the 100th anniversary of the National Park Service, which is being celebrated with events across the country on Thursday. The St. Croix Boom Site, located near downtown Stillwater, is considered one of the earliest and most important major log storage and handling areas in Minnesota. Given its historic association with the lumber industry — including handling and sorting more than 15.5 billion feet of logs — the site was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1966. As part of a public-private partnership, federal money was used to help restore the roadside recreation area at the Boom Site. The part of the project dedicated today is a National Park Service sign that officially welcomes visitors to the St. Croix National Scenic Riverway. Representative McCollum's full remarks at the ceremony before the ribbon cutting are below: This is an exciting day for the St. Croix National Scenic Riverway. It is wonderful to have a beautiful sign worthy of this state and national treasure! And what better day to unveil this sign than on the 100th birthday of our National Park Service! Here in Minnesota, it’s not just our kids that are “above average.” Of course that goes for our parks as well. Congratulations on celebrating 125 years of Minnesota State Parks! Our parks tell truly special stories like those of the Boom Site. Here we have a fascinating window into our state and national history. The many tons of virgin timber harvested from this valley and handled at this site literally helped build our young and rapidly growing nation. This site helped to establish the economic foundation of our state. Earlier this morning I joined a celebration at another one of our incredible national parks – the Mississippi National River and Recreation Area. How many major metropolitan areas have a national park in their front yard and another in their back yard? These two national parks are the gateway to the future –the next 100 years of our national parks,because they allow easy access for millions of people to experience a national park. They’re a door into Minnesota’s 5 other national parks.They’re a portal to our more than 400 other amazing national park treasures throughout the U.S... from historical landmarks to lakeshores to scenic trails and rivers. Minnesota’s gateway national parks depend on partnerships. We wouldn’t be here today without the Minnesota DNR, Washington County, Friends of the Boom Site and the Saint Croix River Association and so many other essential partners.You are the lifeblood of this national park. THANK YOU! It’s safe to say that all of us are committed to the next 100 years of the National Park Service. We understand that our national parks are America’s best idea. And it’s an idea that MUST be shared with more people. How many of our neighbors don’t even know they live by a national park? We need to do a better job of tooting our own horn. This sign will help, but we know we have more work to do. Our parks need investment. National Parks are our best example of our collective commitment to preserve and celebrate America’s natural wonders and cultural heritage. They help bring our nation together. They belong to all of us. Our national parks are as diverse as America itself. Each one tells a different story about the unique natural and cultural resources of America. For the next 100 years of the National Park Service, we must invest in our parks – especially our parks of the future like St. Croix National Scenic Riverway– gateway national parks near urban areas that connect ALL Americans to our shared lands, heritage and culture. In Congress, I have the privilege of representing two of Minnesota’s five wonderful national parks, but also serving as the ranking member of the Interior Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, which funds the National Park Service and related environmental agencies. I love my parks both personally and professionally! I have been working hard to support the President’s budget request for the National Park Service to make the investments necessary to preserve these special places for another century. As part of the Centennial Initiative, the President proposed $560 million to strengthen the foundation for visitor services and make essential infrastructure investments. The future is key and the Centennial Initiative prioritizes youth engagement and the budget increases support for the Every Kid in a Park program by $20 million. Unfortunately, this funding is uncertain in an increasingly uncertain year in Washington. It’s up to all of us to keep up the pressure, keep up the momentum of the National Park Service Centennial Campaign, to invest in our National Parks — especially our gateways — and to invest in our future, to keep America’s Best Idea alive and prospering. Congratulations on this beautiful new sign! Congratulations on 100 years of the National Park Service and 125 years of Minnesota parks!
08.25.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) kicked off the official celebration of the National Park Service's 100th anniversary Thursday morning by cutting the ribon on the new Minnesota National River and Recreation Area Visitors' Center at the Science Museum of Minnesota. With Congresswoman McCollum's support, the MNRRA Visitors' Center project received a $150,000 National Park Service Centennial Challenge grant. The 21st century visitors' center is designed to reflect the National Park Service’s second century and serve as a gateway for residents and out-of-town visitors to connect with the Mississippi River beyond their visit to the Science Museum of Minnesota. New exhibits encourage visitors to connect to the river through ranger-led bike, paddle and wildlife watching programs. A compelling new entry and new exhibits will draw more people in and provide them with a better educational experience and increase their awareness of the park, the National Park Service, and the Mississippi River. New exhibits range from fixed and tactile to the latest electronic media. Representative McCollum's full remarks at the ceremony before the ribbon cutting are below: I can think of no better place to be this morning on the 100th Anniversary of the National Park Service, because we stand in the gateway to the future – the next 100 years of our national parks. The Mississippi National River and Recreation Area is a gateway park that allows millions of people to experience a national park in our own backyard. It’s a door into Minnesota’s 5 other national parks.It’s a portal to our more than 400 other amazing national park treasures throughout the U.S... All within the dynamic heart of the Twin Cities with access to the country and the world through Union Depot and MSP International Airport. MNRRA and this beautiful, revitalized visitors’ center at the Science Museum of Minnesota gives us a 21st Century interpretive center to discover, understand and appreciate our own national treasure right here. This park may not look like Yellowstone or Yosemite, but if you’re interested in the exploring America’s greatest river, this park is THE place to begin your navigation – in Saint Paul, the proud “head of navigation” for commercial traffic on the mighty Mississippi. I can tell you as a child growing up near the river in South Saint Paul, this river has come a long way! Thanks to the vision and tireless dedication of Congressman Bruce Vento, Senator Dave Durenberger and so many citizen activists who worked to create this national park— the Mississippi is the cleanest, healthiest and most appreciated that it has been in my lifetime. Our national park is a gateway park that depends on partnerships. Today we also celebrate our host, the Science Museum of Minnesota, new CEO Alison Brown and her tremendously dedicated staff. You truly get how important and special this is! The Science Museum is itself a gateway – to science education and the natural wonders of the world. This partnership is a perfect fit! There are so many other essential partners here today... Of course, Katie and the Mississippi Park Connection... You are the lifeblood of this national park. Many of you have given generous donations to make this visitors’ center project possible... THANK YOU. This park can’t function without you. It’s safe to say that all of us are committed to the next 100 years of the National Park Service. We understand that our national parks are America’s best idea. And it’s an idea that MUST be shared with more people. National Parks are our best example of our collective commitment to preserve and celebrate America’s natural wonders and cultural heritage. They help bring our nation together. They belong to all of us. Our national parks are as diverse as America itself. Each one tells a different story about the unique natural and cultural resources of America. For the next 100 years of the National Park Service, we must invest in parks of the future like MNRRA – urban national park gateways that connect ALL Americans to our shared lands, heritage and culture. In Congress, I have the privilege of representing two of Minnesota’s five wonderful national parks, but also serving as the ranking member of the Interior Subcommittee of the Appropriations Committee, which funds the National Park Service and related environmental agencies. I love my parks both personally and professionally! I have been working hard to support the President’s budget request for the National Park Service to make the investments necessary to preserve these special places for another century. As part of the Centennial Initiative, the President proposed $560 million to strengthen the foundation for visitor services and make essential infrastructure investments.It is wonderful that this program was leveraged to help boost this visitors’ center project. The future is key and the Centennial Initiative prioritizes youth engagement and the budget increases support for the Every Kid in a Park program by $20 million. Unfortunately, this funding is uncertain in an increasingly uncertain year in Washington. Our park of the future, and all national parks, depend on getting our next generation outside and into our parks. Few parks do it as well as MNRRA through Urban Wilderness Canoe Adventures that gets thousands of local youth on the river every year. This initiative is a gateway to our parks for the future. It’s up to all of us to keep up the pressure, keep up the momentum of the National Park Service Centennial Campaign, to invest in our National Parks, especially our gateways, to invest in our future, to keep America’s Best Idea alive and prospering. Congratulations on the reopening of this state of the art visitors’ center! Congratulations on 100 years of the National Park Service! Here’s to the next century of our great National Parks!
08.24.2016	Today, Congressional Native American Caucus Co-Chair Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), U.S. Senate Indian Affairs Committee Member Al Franken (DFL-Minn.), and Rep. Rick Nolan (DFL-Minn.), took part in a ceremonial groundbreaking at the site of the future Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig High School on Leech Lake Indian Reservation, an event they said is the culmination of their years-long fight to replace what has been a dangerously dilapidated school. Earlier this year, after efforts from Rep. McCollum, Sen. Franken and Rep. Nolan, the Department of Interior (DOI) finally granted nearly $12 million for repairs and improvements at Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig—a place where students and teachers have had to endure years of deplorable conditions, including inadequate construction, freezing temperatures, leaky ceilings and doors, faulty electrical and air systems, exposed wiring, mold, and sewer backups. Today’s groundbreaking is the first step in rebuilding the school, with the new modernized facility expected to be completed in 2017. “The federal government has a responsibility to ensure that every child in a Bureau of Indian Education school receives a high-quality education in a safe, healthy facility. Because of the passionate advocacy of Leech Lake’s students and adults, and our bipartisan work in Congress, we are finally able to break ground today on a school that meets our country’s obligation to the children of the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe,” said Rep. McCollum. “While I am very proud of this new school and the difference it will make to children in Leech Lake, much more remains to be done at Bureau of Indian Education schools across the country. I will continue to work with my colleagues and tribal leaders throughout the United States to ensure that every child in a BIE school is healthy, safe, and receiving a high-quality education.” “Students at Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig have faced horrendous conditions in their classrooms for years—it was disgraceful, deplorable, and terrible for learning,” said Sen. Franken. “Students, teachers, and faculty had to deal with freezing temperatures, leaky pipes, dangerous wiring, and mold and sewer problems. That’s why this groundbreaking is so important: it means that so many bright young students in Indian Country will be able to feel safe and comfortable to learn and reach their full potential. I strongly believe that kids in Indian Country should receive a world-class education, and that starts with the buildings they learn in. That’s why I’ve been fighting for so long to fix this school. This took a lot of work—from lawmakers, from the tribe and community, and from the Obama Administration—and I’m thrilled that we were able to get this done.” “I am pleased that we were able to come together and secure this new facility for our Leech Lake students as we honor our obligations and send the message to students in Indian Country that their education and their success in life are important to all of us. Forcing them to go to school in facilities in utter disrepair simply did not send that message,” Rep. Nolan said. “The Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig School was housed in an old pole building – cold and drafty in winter, hot in summer, and unfit for children and teachers in any season. No child should be forced to endure deteriorating school rooms to get an education.” For more than eight years, Rep. McCollum — the co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus — has worked with the Leach Lake Band of Ojibwe to replace the dilapidated school and ensure the band’s children are able to receive a high-quality education in a safe, healthy facility. Rep. McCollum’s commitment to replace the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig High School was underscored by her visit to the school in 2009 and frequent meetings with tribal leaders and students. The funding to replace the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig High School that led to today’s groundbreaking is the direct result of Rep. McCollum’s work as the lead Democrat on the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee to restore funding for the Replacement Facility Construction line item in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. For the better half of a decade, Sen. Franken has led the charge to fix and improve Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig. He directly pressed Interior Secretary Sally Jewell to visit the school in 2014 and see its deplorable conditions for herself, and he personally visited the school in 2015 to meet with students and teachers. Sen Franken hounded top federal officials for years to increase funding to rebuild the school, often at Senate Indian Affairs hearings. He also hosted a Senate “field” hearing in the region in 2010 on the importance of funding tribal education. Since returning to Congress in 2013, Nolan has consistently worked to help secure funding for the replacement of the Bug O Nay Ge Shig School. Nolan advocated before the Administration urging the Department of the Interior to continue to closely consult with the Leech Lake Band following Interior Secretary Sally Jewell’s visit to the reservation. He also testified before the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee in support of funding for the Bug O Nay Ge Shig School introduced Chairwoman Carri Jones at the hearing. Nolan introduced and passed an amendment to the Student Success Act to put Congress on record that Indian children will not have to attend school in buildings that are dilapidated and dangerous. He also led a letter to House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee Chair Ken Calvert and Ranking Member Betty McCollum to request the committee fully match the Administration’s requested increase for Bureau of Indian Education School Construction funding in Fiscal Year 2016.
08.17.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) called Wednesday for the Government Accountability Office and the United States Department of Agriculture’s Inspector General to investigate the prominent non-governmental organization Planet Aid and affiliated groups following media reports that allege the groups’ may have misused taxpayer dollars. “I urge you to begin a comprehensive inquiry immediately,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote in a pair of letters to Comptroller General Gene Dodaro and USDA Inspector General Phyllis K. Fong. “I hope that such an investigation will be thorough and draw upon whatever resources are necessary to ensure that the issues surrounding this global organization are fully examined.” Recent media reports from the Center for Investigative Reporting and the British Broadcasting Corporation have suggested that Planet Aid and its affiliates may have played a “shell game” with funds received from the United States Department of Agriculture’s Foreign Agricultural Service. In light of these and other reports, the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development and UNICEF, the United Nations Children’s Fund, both suspended funding to a Planet Aid affiliate. Additionally, these media reports indicate that Planet Aid is connected to a global organization, the Teachers Group, which has been described as a “cult” and has been investigated by both the Federal Bureau of Investigation and foreign law enforcement. In a 2001 document obtained by journalists, an FBI investigator noted that the Teachers Group diverted funds “for personal use. Little, to no money goes to the charities.” “Every person or entity performing work for the U.S. government has the moral and legal responsibility to fulfill their obligations in an open and transparent manner,” Congresswoman McCollum wrote. “This responsibility is even more critical when the contracts being performed are intended to meet the food security needs of some of the poorest people on Earth.” The full text of the letters to the Comptroller General and the USDA Inspector General is below. Letter to Comptroller General Gene Dodaro Dear Mr. Dodaro: I am writing to request that the Government Accountability Office begin an immediate and thorough investigation of Planet Aid, a non-governmental organization, and its possible misuse of federal funds provided under contracts with several U.S. government agencies. To help improve global health and advance food security around the world, the United States government contracts with various organizations to deliver humanitarian assistance through a variety of Congressionally-mandated programs. In recent years, several U.S. government agencies have contracted with Planet Aid and its affiliates to provide services in furtherance of these goals. Recent media reports by the Center for Investigative Reporting (CIR) suggest that Planet Aid and its affiliates have engaged in a “shell game” with funds received from contracts with the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). In addition to an opaque contracting and financing structure that passes federal money to affiliated subcontractors, journalists have found evidence that suggests Planet Aid may have failed to fulfill its contractual obligations to the FAS on several projects in Malawi. Similarly disturbing, media reports indicate that Planet Aid is connected to a global organization, the Teachers Group, which has been investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and foreign law enforcement for fraud and corruption. The senior leadership of the Teachers Group is wanted by the International Criminal Police Organization. Former members of the group have described it as a “cult.” Finally, in a 2001 FBI report obtained by CIR, investigators noted that the Teachers Group diverted funds “for personal use. Little, to no money goes to the charities. Following the investigations by both CIR and the British Broadcasting Corporation, the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development and the United Nations Children’s Fund -- two highly respected international development and humanitarian relief organizations -- suspended funding to a Planet Aid-affiliate known as Development Assistance from People to People Malawi. Planet Aid maintains an active contract with the FAS to provide services in Mozambique under the McGovern–Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program. The USDA has responded to media inquiries about its relationship with Planet Aid and its affiliates by stating that annual audits and site visits have uncovered no evidence of wrongdoing by Planet Aid or its subcontractors. However, media reports indicate that “visiting auditors [were steered] to Potemkin village farms that looked prosperous but were merely for show.” Given the alleged sophistication of the Teachers Group, it is plausible that USDA auditors have not been given the access they need to fully investigate the performance of Planet Aid and its affiliates. While recent media reports have focused primarily on the possibility of misconduct with FAS contracts, Planet Aid and its affiliated organizations have significant relationships with other U.S. government agencies. For instance, Planet Aid is registered as a private voluntary organization with the U.S. Agency for International Development. And at least one Planet Aid affiliate has received funding from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention for services related to the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa. Given the evidence that has been uncovered by investigative journalists and the decision by international partners of the United States government to suspend funding to a Planet Aid affiliate, it is clear that a more thorough investigation into how American taxpayer dollars that flowed to this organization and its affiliates are being spent now and how they have been spent in the past. Specifically, I am requesting the Government Accountability Office investigate the following: 1. Have all federal funds disbursed to Planet Aid and/or its affiliates been spent appropriately, including by subcontractors? 2. Did federal agencies that contracted with Planet Aid and/or its affiliates meet their legal responsibilities in overseeing these agreements? 3. Is the FAS annual audit and site visit process, as it currently functions, sufficient to determine whether federal contracts overseas are being properly executed? I urge you to begin a comprehensive inquiry immediately. I hope that such an investigation will be thorough and draw upon whatever resources are necessary to ensure that the issues surrounding this global organization are fully examined. Thank you for your attention to this important matter. Letter to USDA Inspector General Phyllis Fong Dear Ms. Fong: I am writing to request that the Office of Inspector General begin an immediate and thorough investigation of Planet Aid, a non-governmental organization, and its possible misuse of federal funds awarded by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s (USDA) Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS). Planet Aid has received approximately $133 million through numerous contracts with FAS. At least one of these contracts, a project in Mozambique under the McGovern–Dole International Food for Education and Child Nutrition Program, is still active. The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and the United Kingdom’s Department for International Development (DfID) have both recently suspended contracts with a Planet Aid-affiliated entity as a result of allegations of misuse of funds. Recent media reports from the Center for Investigative Reporting (CIR) have raised serious questions about the completion of specific projects in Malawi that were supposed to be carried out under FAS contracts with Planet Aid. For instance, the journalists found that managers working on USDA-funded projects did not believe they had received the full number of water pumps they had been promised. The investigative journalists at CIR uncovered evidence that suggests Planet Aid has played a “shell game” with federal contracts from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). After obtaining contracts for projects in Malawi, Planet Aid has apparently engaged a subcontractor known as Development Aid from People to People in Malawi (DAPP). This organization subsequently passed these funds to other subcontractors, which CIR investigations have shown share a common command-and-control structure with Planet Aid and DAPP. While this contracting and financing structure is opaque, possibly by design, it raises serious questions about whether American taxpayer dollars provided to Planet Aid were actually used as intended to achieve the maximum benefit for their target beneficiary: Malawian farmers and communities living in extreme poverty. Similarly disturbing, media reports indicate that Planet Aid is connected to a global organization, the Teachers Group, which has been investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation and foreign law enforcement for fraud and corruption. The senior leadership of the Teachers Group is wanted by the International Criminal Police Organization. Former members of the group have described it as a “cult.” Finally, in a 2001 FBI report obtained by CIR, investigators noted that the Teachers Group diverted funds “for personal use. Little, to no money goes to the charities.” In light of the investigations by both CIR and the British Broadcasting Corporation, DfID and UNICEF have suspended funding to DAPP. To date, the USDA has not taken similar action. The USDA has responded to media inquiries about its relationship with Planet Aid and its affiliates by stating that annual audits and site visits have uncovered no evidence of wrongdoing by Planet Aid or its subcontractors. However, media reports indicate that “visiting auditors [were steered] to Potemkin village farms that looked prosperous but were merely for show.” Given the alleged sophistication of the Teachers Group, it is plausible that USDA auditors have not been given the access they need to fully investigate the performance of Planet Aid and its affiliates. Clearly, a more complete investigation into Planet Aid’s activities with FAS contracts is needed. Every person or entity performing work for the U.S. government has the moral and legal responsibility to fulfill their obligations in an open and transparent manner. This responsibility is even more critical when the contracts being performed are intended to meet the food security needs of some of the poorest people on Earth. With Malawi’s government having recently declared a food emergency in much of the country, fraud involving American humanitarian assistance to the country is unconscionable and must never be tolerated. Allegations of fraud and waste involving American taxpayer dollars have surrounded Planet Aid and its affiliates for more than a decade. Internal communications that have been publicly reported show that employees at FAS raised concerns about potential fraud by Planet Aid at least four years ago and proposed an investigation at that time. I urge you to begin a comprehensive inquiry immediately. I hope that such an investigation will be thorough and draw upon whatever resources are necessary to ensure that the issues surrounding this global organization are fully examined. Thank you for your attention to this important matter.
08.12.2016	WASHINGTON, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, along with Representatives Betty McCollum and Keith Ellison, today announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) has awarded a grant of $1,100,550 to Twin Cities & Western Railroad Company to improve rail safety. The funds will be used to implement and test Positive Train Control systems. “Minnesota depends on freight rail to keep businesses and our state’s economy moving forward. However, with increased freight train traffic on our rail lines, ensuring the safety of communities along rail routes remains a top priority,” Klobuchar said. “That’s why I’ve been a leading advocate for strengthening rail infrastructure, including establishing Positive Train Control systems. This investment in the Twin Cities & Western Railroad Company will help reduce the number of train incidents caused by human error and greatly enhance safety on our tracks.” “Railroads are critically important to Minnesota’s economy, as businesses and farmers rely on rail service to move their products to market. Keeping our railroads safe and operational is a critical part of our state's transportation network,” Franken said. “I’ve heard from many community leaders who share my concern for the safety of railcars that travel through our Minnesota communities, and I’m glad that the Transportation Department is listening to Minnesotans and taking measures to ensure we keep our railways safe.” “I am pleased that the Department of Transportation is working to make rail traffic safer in the Twin Cities and throughout Minnesota,” McCollum said. “As the shipment of Bakken crude oil continues to depend on freight rail traveling through Minnesota, we must ensure the highest level of safety for our communities. Implementing and testing Positive Train Control is an important step in making freight rail safer and preventing future accidents.” “A safe and efficient multi-modal freight network is critical to our region’s economic success,” Ellison said. “The Department of Transportation’s grant will help modernize our freight rail network and keep our communities safe.” The DOT Railroad Safety Technology Grant Program provides grants to passenger and freight rail carriers, railroad suppliers, and state and local governments for projects that have a public benefit of improved railroad safety and efficiency. Klobuchar is a leader in the Senate on the effort to improve rail safety and service across the country. Her provision to help states address blocked rail crossings passed the Senate last year as part of the bipartisan long-term transportation legislation. Her provision would help improve safety at rail-highway crossings by ensuring that the U.S. Secretary of Transportation provides tools and best practices to states to mitigate the safety risks posed by blocked rail crossings. In 2015, Klobuchar also sent a letter urging the U.S. Department of Transportation to work collaboratively with rail carriers and first responders to establish an information-sharing system that will help communities plan for and respond to rail incidents. As a member of the Senate Commerce Committee, which oversees federal rail issues, Klobuchar successfully pushed for a hearing where she pressed federal rail officials on the need to move forward on critical safety measures to strengthen rail infrastructure and protect communities along rail routes. She has also pushed the Senate Appropriations Committee for increased funding for additional rail inspectors and for a stronger track inspection process to prevent derailments. For years, Franken has pressed railroad and federal safety officials to do everything they can to keep Minnesotans safe. As a member of the Senate Energy Committee, Franken urged the Federal Railroad Administration in 2015 to adopt measures to make Bakken crude oil safer to transport before it is carried from North Dakota across our Minnesota railroad systems. He remains committed to making sure trains traveling through places like Moorhead, St. Cloud, and the Twin Cities metro area have the strongest tank cars with the safest oil. He continues to advocate for puncture resistant tanks and stresses the importance of treating crude oil and ethanol as different materials with their own safety standards. He also supports a permanent extension of the short line tax credit for railroads, which helps small and local railroads invest in upgrading and expanding their infrastructure, and improving rail service. In Congress, McCollum has been a strong advocate for rail safety and investments in America’s transportation infrastructure. McCollum is the co-sponsor of multiple bills to improve rail safety, such as the Positive Train Control Enforcement and Implementation Act (H.R.3561). As Minnesota’s member of the House Appropriations Committee, McCollum worked with both parties to include critical investments in rail safety in the Fiscal Year 2017 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Funding Bill, including funding for highway rail-grade crossing safety and improved signaling technology. Representative Ellison has been a strong advocate for ensuring that we protect communities impacted by freight rail traffic. Mr. Ellison has introduced legislation (H.R. 1290) that would provide for a study by the Transportation Research Board of the National Academies on the impact of diverting certain freight rail traffic to avoid urban areas. Congressman Ellison has also hosted a series of rail safety forums to highlight community concerns and bring attention to the issues created by high volumes of freight rail traffic.
08.09.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) was the guest of honor and a featured speaker Monday night at a Washington reception celebrating the 49th anniversary of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN). “In the House of Representatives, I represent tens of thousands of Minnesotans -- Hmong, Lao, Burmese, Cambodian, Filipino, Thai and Vietnamese Americans -- who trace their ancestry to ASEAN countries,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “My constituents care deeply about the future of Southeast Asia -- and so do I.” The reception was hosted by His Excellency Mai Sayavongs, the ambassador of the Lao PDR to the United States, and held at the residency of His Excellency Budi Bowoleksono, the ambassador of Indonesia to the United States. “As the relationships between the United States and ASEAN countries have deepened, I have been particularly pleased that the bonds between our country and Laos, this year’s ASEAN chair, have strengthened as well,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Together, through dialogue and cooperation, the United States and the countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations can create a more peaceful and prosperous world for future generations.”
08.05.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) called today for Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republican leaders to bring Congress back from recess to approve a bipartisan, Senate-passed Zika response bill that will help keep American families safe amid this public health emergency. The need for urgent action was underscored this week by reports from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the Department of Defense about the spread of the Zika virus in the United States and among American servicemembers. “Now that we know mosquitoes are transmitting the Zika virus inside the United States, it is obvious that we are facing a public health emergency,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Public health experts have told Congress what resources they need to help keep American families and children safe. House Republicans should bring Congress back from its seven-week recess so we can approve the Senate-passed bill that provides $1.1 billion to confront the Zika virus.” The Senate approved $1.1 billion in Zika response funding on a bipartisan vote in May. Although the Senate bill provides $800 million less than public health officials recommended, this proposal represents an acceptable compromise to the Obama administration, House and Senate Democrats, and Senate Republicans. However, House Republicans have insisted that any Zika funding bill include unrelated ideological provisions that limit women’s access to contraception and undermine the Clean Water Act by allowing toxic pesticides to be used near waterways. “It is shameful that Speaker Ryan and House Republicans are playing politics with the health and safety of American families,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “The Zika virus is a public health emergency and we must give our public health officials the resources they need to deal with it. House Republicans must stop pandering to anti-choice activists and polluters’ special interests. They need to do their job, fund the response to Zika, and help keep American families safe.”
07.20.2016	WASHINGTON, DC –Following efforts from the Minnesota congressional delegation, the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) today announced it will grant nonstop service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). In May, the Minnesota lawmakers sent a bipartisan letter to Secretary Foxx highlighting the importance of access to the growing Asian markets for Minnesota businesses and travelers, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in Minnesota, and urged DOT to consider Delta Air Lines’ application for service between Tokyo’s Haneda Airport and MSP. “As chair of the Senate Travel and Tourism Caucus, I know how important travel and tourism are to the economy of Minnesota,” said Senator Amy Klobuchar. “Access to the growing Asian markets are particularly important to Minnesota businesses, and why I led efforts with my Minnesota colleagues to ensure that our state continues to have direct access to Asia. Today’s announcement that MSP and Tokyo’s more convenient Haneda Airport will be connected by nonstop flights is great news for Minnesota’s economy and those traveling to and from our state.”“Businesses in Minnesota rely on MSP to bring jobs to our state and strengthen our local economy,” said Senator Al Franken. “And families rely on MSP to visit unique places all around the world. We fought hard to open Haneda Airport to nonstop service between Tokyo and Minnesota because it will help promote economic growth and expand tourism opportunities. This is a good day for our state.” “This announcement creates a direct link between Minnesota and Tokyo,” said Representative Collin Peterson. “This new service will better connect Minnesota businesses with those in Tokyo and provide new opportunities for growth in Minnesota.” “I am very pleased that Secretary Foxx has agreed with the Minnesota delegation and granted nonstop service between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Betty McCollum. “This essential airline service will help forge even stronger connections between Minnesota and Japan, particularly Minnesota businesses that are working to succeed in Asian markets. Overall, this is great news for our Twin Cities region.” “I am pleased the Department of Transportation has announced it will grant Delta Air Lines’ application for nonstop flights between MSP and Tokyo’s Haneda Airport,” said Representative Tim Walz. “Increasing access to developing markets is critical for the continued growth of Minnesota’s businesses. This is certainly a win for our state’s economy and those traveling between the two locations.” “This is tremendous news for MSP and our Minnesota businesses,” said Representative Rick Nolan. “During my discussion with Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx regarding this matter, I emphasized the importance of this decision. Nonstop service between Haneda Airport and MSP will allow Minnesota business travelers to efficiently conduct business across the globe.” “Minnesota businesses are some of the most enterprising and innovative in the world, and the new direct service to Tokyo’s Haneda Airport will present more opportunities for them to thrive,” said Representative Erik Paulsen. “I’m very proud to see this bipartisan effort yield such a positive result for Minnesota businesses and jobs.”“Trade and travel are critical to Minnesota’s economy and securing daytime slots from MSP to Haneda ensures that Minnesota businesses will remain at the forefront of the global economy,” said Representative Tom Emmer. “I’m proud to have worked so closely with the entire delegation advocating for our Minnesota companies and workers.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent in May is below: Dear Secretary Foxx: We write to urge full and fair consideration of Delta Air Lines’ application for a daytime slot pair allowing for service between Haneda Airport and Minneapolis-St. Paul International Airport (MSP). Earlier this year, we wrote to express our concern that a limited opening of Haneda Airport could make the current route between MSP and Narita International Airport economically unsustainable. We noted that the MSP to Narita route is the only direct flight between Minnesota and Asia. Given the new bilateral aviation agreement with Japan, allowing service between MSP and Haneda is now imperative to maintaining Minnesota’s connection to Asia. Access to growing Asian markets is particularly important to Minnesota businesses, including the 17 Fortune 500 companies headquartered in our state. In 2015 employees from just 25 businesses in Minnesota took more than 10,000 flights from Minneapolis/St. Paul to Tokyo. Minnesota competes to attract businesses by creating a positive business climate based on good governance, a strong workforce and world-class infrastructure. Losing the only nonstop flight connection to Asia would damage Minnesota’s competitiveness. Delta’s proposal to use MSP as a hub to connect 114 U.S. cities to Haneda will have benefits in Minnesota and beyond. Many Midwestern communities will also benefit from shorter flight times compared to alternative hubs. In addition, the connecting traffic will strengthen MSP as an international hub and leverage the existing transportation infrastructure and vibrant aviation sector in the Twin Cities. Ensuring Minnesota receives a new daytime slot pair is also essential for maintaining a competitive balance in the transpacific market. Currently, robust competition among three global alliances facilitates consumer choice and puts downward pressure on airfares. The limited opening of Haneda Airport has the potential to upset this balance as American Airlines and United Airlines currently control 79 percent of the global Haneda Airport market in conjunction with their Japanese partner airlines. Thank you for your attention to our views. We look forward to working with you on this important issue.
07.14.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement after the House approved the FY2017 Interior-Environment appropriations bill on a 231-196 vote: “I led Democrats opposing the Interior-Environment appropriations bill today because it fails to meet some of Congress’ most basic responsibilities: protecting the public health and safety of the American people and preserving our environment for future generations. To cater to right-wing ideologues and polluters’ special interests, Republicans loaded up this bill with damaging cuts to the Environmental Protection Agency and harmful riders that undo environmental regulations. Sadly, Republicans even bragged about how deep they cut the agency that is responsible for ensuring that our air and water is clean. While I support some elements of the bill — including robust funding for programs important to Native Americans and support for our National Parks as they celebrate their centennial — I was disappointed to see just how bad Republicans made this bill on the floor by further chopping away at EPA funding and unraveling even more environmental protections. For instance, Republicans voted to undo safety rules put in place following the Deepwater Horizon disaster, putting our environment and, most importantly, lives at risk. I was also deeply disturbed by the lengths to which Republicans have gone in this bill to undermine the Obama administration’s climate change policies. Climate change is real: The planet, the climate, the oceans, the ice shelves are all changing. For the sake of our children and future generations, we must act to address the climate crisis. Instead, Republicans would rather stick their heads in the sand and ignore the reality of climate change. Fortunately, the Senate is unlikely to pass such an extreme bill and the White House has already indicated the President would veto this legislation if it reached his desk. In the coming months, I will work with Republican and Democratic colleagues to remove harmful partisan provisions and restore adequate funding to protect the public health and safety of the American people and preserve our environment for future generations.”
07.14.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement ahead of Philando Castile’s funeral today. Congresswoman McCollum is unable to attend the funeral due to her responsibilities managing the FY2017 Interior-Environment appropriations bill on the House floor today. “Family, friends, and mourners from across Minnesota and the nation will gather today at St. Paul’s Cathedral to remember the life of Mr. Philando Castile. I want to again extend my heartfelt condolences to Mr. Castile’s loved ones. My Congressional responsibilities require me to be in Washington today, but I too will say a prayer asking for peace and healing for Mr. Castile’s family and for our entire community. Mr. Castile’s death is a terrible tragedy and the ongoing investigation must provide Mr. Castile’s family and the public with the facts and accountability appropriate to those facts. It is my hope that the facts will also lead to public policy action that prevents tragedies like this from happening in the future. Mr. Castile’s death raised serious questions that have reverberated across the United States, and it is clear that we have work to do together in Minnesota both to address racial disparities and to heal the relationship between law enforcement and the communities they serve.”
07.13.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today applauded the Environmental Protection Agency’s decision to award $200,000 in federal funds to the St. Paul Port Authority for brownfield restoration. The EPA grant will help address lead and petroleum contamination on the 9.9-acre former streetcar and maintenance facility that is being transformed into the new home of Minnesota United FC. It is part of a national program of EPA grants for cleanup and redevelopment of brownfield sites. “The EPA’s brownfield funds are critical to redeveloping polluted urban land in communities like St. Paul,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am delighted that St. Paul is receiving these funds, which will help revitalize this property and allow it to become a new hub for economic opportunities in downtown St. Paul.”
07.12.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks as general debate began on the FY2017 Interior-Environment appropriations bill: Mr. Chairman, I yield myself such time as I may consume. I would like to thank Chairman Calvert for the warm birthday wishes, and the Chairman and his staff for their open and collaborative approach. I would also like to thank the wonderful staff on the Democratic side who will be helping me this evening. This subcommittee has a challenging portfolio of issues and I commend the Chairman’s efforts to find solutions in yet another difficult budget year. This year, the subcommittee held 14 budget hearings, four of which involved American Indians and Alaska Natives. The testimony provided by the 209 witnesses clearly articulated the serious need for programs and services under this subcommittee’s jurisdiction. Unfortunately, the FY 2017 subcommittee allocation is $64 million less than last year’s enacted level. This means the needs of many important programs vital to protecting our nation’s natural and cultural resources will not be met as they far outpace a stagnant allocation. Within this constrained topline number, difficult choices had to be made and, sadly, the majority cut important programs that protect the American public and conserve our natural resources. The most significant programmatic cut is to the Environmental Protection Agency, which was slashed by $164 million. This cut will impact the Agency’s ability to protect human health and the health of our environment and to ensure clean air and clean water for our families and future generations. This year, the critical need for the EPA was unmistakable as our nation watched a tragedy unfold in Flint, Michigan where children were poisoned by lead in their drinking-water. So, I find it difficult to reconcile the cuts recommended in this bill with the public health challenges faced by this country. Flint is a culmination of years of weakening EPA through budget cuts and over-reliance on state agencies to manage federal environmental laws. All of our communities deserve and expect their government to provide clean water and basic public health protections. Especially in light of Flint, I must strongly object to the majority’s decision to reduce funding for clean water by $394 million, which is 28% below the FY 2016 enacted level. Clean water and safe drinking water go hand-in-hand; you cannot have one without the other. Residents of Flint were betrayed by their state government and to this day still do not have safe drinking water available from their tap. The levels provided in this bill for the State Revolving Funds are inadequate to deal with the decaying infrastructure in our nation, no less the emergency in Flint, Michigan. In addition to the irresponsible cuts to the EPA, I am also troubled by the 30% reduction for Endangered Species Listing. Reducing funding for this program opens the door for litigation and it delays protecting and recovering vulnerable species. This bill also short changes the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which since its inception has protected conservation and recreation land in every State and supported tens of thousands of State and local projects. Yet, despite its merits, this bill slashes the LWCF program by a third. Despite this bill’s shortcomings in environmental protection and resource conservation, I want to express how proud I am of this subcommittee’s non-partisan approach to addressing issues facing our Native American brothers and sisters. I am pleased that the bill recommends an increase of 343 million for programs critical to Indian country. However, I would be remiss if I did not point out that even with this increase, funding for Native American programs is still $172 million less than the Administration’s request. American Indian and Alaska Native populations face substantial hardships, and when compared to the total population, have poorer health, lower earnings, and higher poverty rates. We must continue our efforts to support these communities. That is why I applaud this bill for maintaining our commitment to provide Native American students with safe schools that are conducive to learning and for fully funding contract support costs so tribes are not penalized for exercising their self-determination rights. Another bright spot in this bill is the continued support for the National Park Service’s Centennial Initiative. The bill recommends an additional $80 million for the Centennial, which will strengthen the foundation for visitor services and make essential infrastructure investments. I am pleased an additional $3 million is provided for the Civil Rights Initiative grant program and that funding is included for grants-in-aid to Historically Black Colleges and Universities. I would also like to thank the Chairman for working with me to resurrect the Save America’s Treasures program. This program funds preservation of nationally significant sites, structures, and artifacts. I am proud we were able to restart this important program and I will work diligently to make sure it is included in the final bill. Unfortunately, this bill neglects to act on many other opportunities to wisely invest taxpayer dollars. I am frustrated that the majority has effectively left $1.2 billion on the table by not adopting the common sense reforms championed in Chairman Simpson’s wildfire disaster funding bill. Every member of the Interior subcommittee is a cosponsor of that bill, yet once again the majority has balked, citing committee jurisdiction. But those jurisdictional issues did not hinder the majority from including dozens of harmful legislative riders. I must express my concern and disappointment with the 38 partisan riders in this bill. The number and outrageous nature of the riders included in this bill pander to special interests at the expense of the public good. For example, this bill contains a provision that would reverse the safety improvements developed following the Deepwater Horizon tragedy. Eleven lives were lost in that explosion. So I must express my dismay that this bill puts the profits of big oil companies ahead of worker safety. The veto-bait provisions that seek to turn back protections for endangered species, restrict control of greenhouse gas emissions, and undermine clean water and clean air protections do not belong in this bill. I acknowledge and appreciate the efforts that have been made to accommodate Democratic priorities in this bill; however, I cannot support it as drafted. Despite my current opposition, I intend to continue to work with Chairman Calvert through this year’s appropriations process to produce a responsible bill that both parties can support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
07.11.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) delivered the following remarks at the House Rules Committee's hearing on the FY 2017 Interior-Environemnt Appropriations Bill: Chairman Sessions, Ranking Member Slaughter, and Members of the Rules Committee, I appreciate the opportunity to appear before you today to discuss the FY 2017 Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations bill. Before I get into the specifics of this bill, I would like to be clear that I believe consideration of this bill on the House floor should be under an open rule. That is the traditional process for appropriations legislation, and it is being undermined by these structured rules. With the successful passage of a bipartisan amendment to the Energy and Water Appropriations bill, this Congress went on record to support the protection of our LGBT brothers and sisters from employment discrimination. I’m proud of that vote. But instead of embracing the will of Congress and the American people, Republican leadership has shut down the open process to avoid votes they don’t want to take. That is wrong. Every member should be free to offer an amendment if it is germane to the bill. That is why I hope my colleagues on the Rules Committee today will make in order the bipartisan amendment offered by Congressman Maloney and colleagues. Despite my disappointment in the lack of an open floor process, I do want to express my appreciation as the Ranking Member of the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, to Chairman Calvert and his staff. It has been my pleasure to work together on this bill, and I thank him and his staff for their open and collaborative approach. In particular, I want to express how proud I am of this subcommittee’s non-partisan approach to addressing issues facing Native Americans. I am pleased that the bill recommends an increase of $343 million for programs critical to Indian country. The health, education, and safety in tribal communities is a federal responsibility that Chairman Calvert and I, as well as our fellow subcommittee members, take very seriously. The larger character of this bill, however, is a cause of great concern. This subcommittee's allocation is $64 million less than last year’s enacted level. This means the needs of many important programs vital to protecting our nation’s natural and cultural resources will not be met as they far outpace a stagnant allocation. Within this constrained topline number, difficult choices had to be made and, sadly, the majority cut important programs that protect the American public and conserve our natural resources. The most significant programmatic cut is to the Environmental Protection Agency, which is slashed by $164 million. This cut will impact the Agency’s ability to protect human health and the health of our environment and to ensure clean air and clean water for our families and future generations. This year, the critical need for the EPA was unmistakable as our nation watched a tragedy unfold in Flint, Michigan where children were poisoned by lead in their drinking-water. So, I find it difficult to reconcile the cuts recommended in this bill with the public health challenges faced by this community, and throughout our country. Flint is a culmination of years of weakening EPA through budget cuts and over-reliance on state agencies to manage federal environmental laws. All of our communities deserve and expect their government to provide clean water and basic public health protections. In addition to the irresponsible cuts to the EPA, I am also troubled by the 30% reduction for Endangered Species Listing. Reducing funding for this program opens the door for litigation and it delays protecting and recovering vulnerable species. Lastly, I must express my concern and disappointment with the partisan riders in this bill. This bill contains 38 egregious riders that pander to special interests at the expense of the public good. These veto-bait provisions seek to turn back protections for endangered species like the sage grouse and the gray wolf, to restrict control of greenhouse gas emissions, and to undermine clean water and clean air protections. They do not belong in this bill. Mr. Chairman, I request that when H.R. 5538 comes to the floor, it be considered under a true open rule so the House can have a thorough and informed debate on the bill. The health of our environment and our communities, and the legacy we leave for future generations, will be impacted by the spending and policy decisions made by this legislation. Those decisions deserve full and open consideration. Again, I thank you and the Members of the Rules Committee for the opportunity to testify on H.R. 5538.
07.08.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on the shooting attack on police officers in Dallas: “In Dallas last night, a peaceful protest turned into a terror attack on our police. My heart breaks for the families and loved ones of these fallen officers. I know that all Americans and Minnesotans will join me in keeping them in our thoughts and prayers. This tragic incident is another reminder that law enforcement officers put their lives on the line to protect our families every day. I am thankful for their dedicated service and I know the vast majority of Minnesotans and Americans are as well. Last night’s attack on the Dallas Police, and the deaths of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile this week, remind us that we have much work to do to build safe and non-violent communities for police officers and for all our citizens. We need to do this work together.”
07.07.2016	Today, Representative Betty McCollum, Governor Mark Dayton, Lt. Governor Tina Smith, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representative Keith Ellison sent a letter to U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch urging the U.S. Department of Justice to conduct a full and thorough investigation into the death of Philando Castile. “A full and thorough accounting of the facts is necessary in order to secure justice for Philando’s family and his loved ones,” the lawmakers wrote. “While we appreciate that the Department has offered to assist the BCA’s efforts as necessary, we believe it is important that the Department immediately initiate a federal investigation.” The full text of the letter is below: Dear Attorney General Lynch: We write to express our collective sadness at the death of Philando Castile, who passed away after being shot in Falcon Heights, Minnesota by a local law enforcement officer last night. Our thoughts are with Philando’s family and all those affected by this tragedy. We urge the Department of Justice to launch a full and thorough investigation into the circumstances surrounding Philando’s death. We know that the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal Apprehension (BCA) has already begun the important work of examining these events through its own investigation, and we are grateful for the work of these dedicated professionals. A full and thorough accounting of the facts is necessary in order to secure justice for Philando’s family and his loved ones. While we appreciate that the Department has offered to assist the BCA’s efforts as necessary, we believe it is important that the Department immediately initiate a federal investigation. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely,
07.07.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.), who represents Falcon Heights and Minnesota’s Fourth District in the United States House of Representatives, released the following statement after the shooting death of Philando Castile: “My deepest sympathies are with Mr. Castile’s family, loved ones, and friends. I have watched the video of this incident circulating online. It is profoundly disturbing. The circumstances surrounding this tragic event call for an immediate investigation led by the United States Department of Justice. A federal investigation will provide all Minnesotans with a clear understanding of the facts surrounding this incident and ensure accountability appropriate to those facts. At this time of tragedy, we have already seen an outpouring of citizens protesting this incident. Protesters and police will need to ensure that calm prevails in our community and that the First Amendment rights of all citizens are respected.”
07.05.2016	As the House of Representatives returned to Washington from the July 4 District Work Period, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) spoke on the House floor demanding House Speaker Paul Ryan allow votes on bipartisan, commonsense gun violence prevention bills: Mr. Speaker, Today I rise to demand action to prevent gun violence. Every year more than 30,000 Americans die from gun violence. The American Medical Association has identified this situation as a “public health crisis.” There are two immediate, common sense solutions: Preventing known or suspected terrorists from buying guns, and Strengthening our background check system to keep guns away from criminals. Everywhere I went in Minnesota last week, I heard from families who strongly support these common sense ideas. An overwhelming majority of Americans agree. The American people deserve to know where their Representatives stand, yet Republicans still refuse to allow a vote on these solutions. Republican leadership is instead shamefully peddling a gun lobby-endorsed bill that even Republicans back home have said does not do enough to prevent terrorists from having guns. Our families cannot afford for us to wait any longer to take needed action. This House must act to prevent gun violence and keep our families and communities safe. Video of the Congresswoman's remarks is available here.
06.29.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) met today with grassroots Minnesota members of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America to discuss the urgent need for Congressional action to prevent gun violence. Congresswoman McCollum’s meeting was part of the National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention, during which families and gun violence prevention advocates across the country are holding sit-ins and other events to demand Congress act on gun violence prevention legislation. Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America, a part of Everytown for Gun Safety, is a non-partisan movement of Americans demanding reasonable solutions to address our nation’s gun violence epidemic. “Our historic sit-in on the House floor last week has lifted up the voices of millions of Americans who are demanding action to prevent gun violence,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am hearing every day from constituents who are saying enough is enough: we must act to keep our families and communities safe.” "We are grateful that Congresswoman McCollum is using her voice to continue the push to reduce gun violence and easy access to guns by dangerous people who want to attack us for who we are, what we look like, or who we love," said Gail Amundson, a volunteer with the Minnesota chapter of Moms Demand Action for Gun Sense in America. "This effort is about disarming hate and saving lives — and we will carry the momentum of Congresswoman McCollum's leadership as we continue our call for action — for Orlando and for all the victims and survivors of gun violence." In addition to Congresswoman McCollum’s meeting with Moms Demand Action in St. Paul, House Democrats, families, and advocates are holding dozens of events nationwide today to demand immediate action from Congress on commonsense gun violence prevention. The National Day of Action for Commonsense Gun Violence Prevention comes after House Democrats sat-in for 26 hours on the House Floor last week to demand that Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans allow an immediate vote on bipartisan, commonsense gun violence prevention legislation to help keep guns out of dangerous hands, with two bills: The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background check system; and The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to prevent suspected terrorists from buying guns and explosives. Speaker Ryan and House Republicans refused to consider these bills and instead adjourned Congress early and left town in the middle of the night for the Fourth of July recess. “The American people deserve an up-or-down vote on bills that prevent suspected terrorists from buying guns and require background checks for all gun purchases,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “House Republicans refusal to even consider this bipartisan legislation, let alone take action, is shameful.”
06.27.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement on the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in Whole Woman’s Health v. Hellerstedt: “Today’s Supreme Court decision is a victory for women and their families and a rejection of Republican attempts to deny a woman’s right to access reproductive healthcare. Texas’ restrictions on abortion providers were a blatant effort to make reproductive healthcare impossible to obtain. I was proud to join 162 Democrats in Congress on an amicus brief urging the Supreme Court to do exactly what it did today: find that these laws cause an undue burden on a woman’s right to make her own healthcare decisions. While today’s decision affirms that restrictive laws like Texas’ are unconstitutional, House Republicans continue to squander taxpayer dollars on their Select Committee to Target Planned Parenthood. My Democratic colleagues and I have been clear that this egregious waste of time and money must end. Women have a constitutional right to make their own healthcare decisions. I will continue to work to make sure that right is protected from Republican attempts to take it away.”
06.24.2016	As Minnesotans celebrate Pride this weekend and people throughout the United States mark LGBT Pride Month, I am once again reminded of how proud I am to be a strong ally of the LGBT community. From my 1993 vote in the Minnesota State House protecting LGBT Minnesotans from workplace discrimination to celebrating last year's Supreme Court decision ushering in marriage equality across America, the progress we have made in advancing the rights of the LGBT community has been remarkable. However, as the Orlando massacre showed, LGBT Americans continue to face discrimination and, at times, violence. In addition to supporting gun violence prevention measures that disarm hate, I have joined my colleagues supporting the Equality Act and many other bills that protect LGBT Americans from unjust discrimination. Those bills include: H.R. 3185: Equality Act — Amends the Civil Rights Act of 1964 to include protections that ban discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity, and sex in the areas of employment, housing, public accommodations, public education, federal funding, credit, and the jury system. H.R.2449: Every Child Deserves a Family Act — Prohibits adoption or foster care placement service entities that receive federal assistance (or that contract with entities receiving such assistance) from using the sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status of a prospective adoptive or foster parent, or from using the sexual orientation or gender identity of the child to delay or deny placement. H.R. 2450: Therapeutic Fraud Prevention Act —Prohibits sexual orientation or gender identity conversion therapy from being provided in exchange for monetary compensation. H.R.846: Student Non-Discrimination Act of 2015 — Prohibits public school students from being excluded from participating in, or subject to discrimination under, any federally-assisted educational program on the basis of their actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity or that of their associates. H.R. 1421: Tyler Clementi Higher Education Anti-Harassment Act of 2015 — Requires colleges and universities receiving federal aid to establish an anti-harassment policy prohibiting the harassment of enrolled students based on their actual or perceived race, color, national origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity, or religion. H.R.197: Respect for Marriage Act — Repeals DOMA in its entirety and ensures that the U.S. Code reflects that every married couple is entitled to the federal benefits and protections that are offered by the federal government to legally wed couples. H.R. 2976: Amend the Code for Marriage Equality Act of 2015 — Amends the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), the Social Security Act (SSAct), and other federal laws (including provisions concerning workers' compensation, retirement benefits, disability and death benefits, insurance, inheritances, or immigration) to replace: (1) references to "wife" or "husband" with references to "spouse"; and (2) references to "husband and wife" or "husband or wife" with references to "married couple" or " married person." H.R.3793: LGBT Elder Americans Act of 2015 — Aims to broaden the Older Americans Act (OAA) to address the needs of older LGBT Americans. H.R.5373: LGBT Data Inclusion Act — Requires federal surveys to include data collection on sexual orientation and gender identity. H.R.1933: End Racial Profiling Act of 2015 — Prohibits federal, state, and local law enforcement from targeting a person based on actual or perceived race, ethnicity, national origin, religion, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation without trustworthy information that is relevant to linking a person to a crime. H.R. 5265: Transparency in Taxpayer-Funded Discrimination Act — Requires that institutions who apply for exemption from civil rights laws, which allow them to legally discriminate against LGBT student, be listed on the Department of Education’s website. It also requires institutions that apply for or receive an exemption to list this information clearly on their websites. H.R. 2368: Global Respect Act — Requires the Executive Branch to biannually send Congress a list of foreign persons responsible for, complicit in, or who incited extrajudicial killing, torture, or other gross violations of human rights based on actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity. Denies or revoke visas to individuals placed on the list, with waivers for national security or to allow attendance at the United Nations. H.R.590: International Human Rights Defense Act of 2015 — Builds a framework into U.S. diplomacy to protect LGBT rights worldwide. We've come too far to turn back now, and we must continue to act to ensure equality for LGBT Americans.
06.23.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN-04) vowed today to continue to demand action on gun violence prevention legislation as Democrats ended their historic 26-hour sit-in on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. "The American people are demanding action to keep their families and communities safe from gun violence,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Unfortunately, House Republicans refuse to allow an up-or-down vote on bills that prevent suspected terrorists from buying guns and require background checks for all gun purchases.” Congresswoman McCollum and other House Democrats demanded that Speaker Paul Ryan and House Republicans allow an immediate vote on bipartisan, commonsense gun violence prevention bills that help keep guns out of dangerous hands: The bipartisan King-Thompson legislation to expand and strengthen our background check system; and The bipartisan ‘No Fly, No Buy’ bill to prevent suspected terrorists from buying guns and explosives. As Congresswoman McCollum and her colleagues remained on the House floor demanding action overnight, House Republicans — led by Speaker Ryan — voted to adjourn the House just after 3 a.m. for a 12-day recess. "Rather than let Americans see where their Representatives stand on these gun violence prevention measures, House Republicans adjourned the House and slipped out of Washington in the middle of the night,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “That's unacceptable to me, it's unacceptable to Minnesotans, and it's unacceptable to the American people."
06.22.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) joined 175 House Democrats sitting-in on the House Floor today demanding action on gun violence. Congresswoman McCollum joined the sit-in shortly after 1 p.m., following the conclusion of the House Appropriations Committee markup of the Fiscal Year 2017 Homeland Security appropriations bill. In the markup, Congresswoman McCollum spoke in strong support of the “No Fly, No Buy” amendment that prevents suspected terrorists from purchasing guns or explosives. It was defeated in committee. “Americans expect and deserve a vote on the House floor on gun violence prevention legislation,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I am proud House Democrats are sitting-in today demanding the House does its job.” In remarks delivered on the House floor during the sit-in, Congresswoman McCollum argued that Congress must vote on common-sense gun reform before the House recesses this week. Congresswoman McCollum has also shared photos and videos from the House Floor on her Facebook and Twitter feeds.
06.21.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) met today with members of the Irondale High School robotics team visiting Washington after an award-winning performance in the FIRST Robotics Championships, held in St. Louis, Mo. at the end of April. The students — members of FRC 2052, Team KnightKrawler — built a robot that competed in a castle-themed competition that required it to breach defenses, climb towers, and fire foam balls. In their meeting with the Congresswoman, the students and their adult mentors discussed the success of Irondale’s robotics program, the importance of robust support for Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics (STEAM) education, and the need to encourage diversity in STEAM. “It was great to meet with these students today and learn more about their passion for robotics,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Their interest in STEAM education was wonderful to see, and I am proud to have this award-winning program in our district.”
06.20.2016	Twenty Members of Congress, led by U.S. Representative Betty McCollum (D-MN), wrote to President Obama today urging him to appoint a “Special Envoy for Palestinian Youth,” to engage diplomatically with Israel, the Palestinian Authority, and human rights groups in the region to address serious human rights abuses against Palestinian children living under Israeli military occupation. (The full text of the letter is below; the signed letter and an accompanying fact sheet are attached.) Forty-six percent of the 4.68 million Palestinians living in the Occupied Palestinian Territories are under the age of 18. This enormous youth cohort represents another generation of Palestinian children growing up under Israeli military occupation with very few opportunities to improve their lives. “[Palestinian] children live under the constant fear of arrest, detention, and violence at the hand of the Israeli military, as well as the threat of recruitment or conscription into armed groups,”the lawmakers wrote. “We view this as an unimaginably difficult and at time hopeless environment for children that only fuels the conflict.” The letter recommends that the Special Envoy work closely with Palestinian and Israeli officials, including security and military leaders, Palestinian youth, human rights and legal experts, and NGOs to seek solutions to the intolerable situation experienced by Palestinian youth. In Special Envoy proposal is a response to specific concerns about the cruel, inhuman, and degrading treatment and punishment of Palestinian children while in the Israeli military detention system. An estimated 7,000 Palestinian children, ages 12 to 17, were subjected to arrest, detention, interrogation and/or imprisonment by Israeli army, police, and security agents in the past decade, according to a United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) report. “The American people expect that all children, including Palestinian children, are treated with dignity and have their human rights respected,” Representative McCollum said. “If the United States is to play a role in ending the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, we must end human rights abuses against Palestinian children. Peace will only be possible in the Middle East if we build a brighter future for Palestinian youth.” “Not only is the mass detention of Palestinian children unwarranted, it is also shameful,” Representative Hank Johnson (D-GA) said. “The number of Palestinian children arrested by Israeli forces has more than doubled since October 2015 and in some cases they are treated in ways that aren’t even suitable for adults. By requesting a Special Envoy, we hope to stem the tide of human rights abuses against Palestinian children.” "I am pleased to join Congresswoman McCollum and other Democratic Members of Congress to urge President Obama to appoint a Special Envoy on Palestinian Children,” Representative Mark Pocan (D-WI) said. “I recently visited the West Bank and saw what life is like for Palestinian children living under military occupation. Nearly 2 million Palestinian youth are growing up under occupation with severely limited opportunities. I believe this Special Envoy will help the Administration and policy makers hear directly from the Palestinian youth so they can be treated with the respect and dignity they deserve.” In addition to Representatives Johnson and Pocan, Representatives Donald Beyer, Earl Blumenauer, Andre Carson, Yvette Clarke, John Conyers, Danny K. Davis, Peter DeFazio, Keith Ellison, Sam Farr, Raul Grijalva, Luis Gutierrez, Hank Johnson, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Marcy Kaptur, Barbara Lee, Jim McDermott, Chellie Pingree, and Bobby Rush joined Representative McCollum on the letter.
06.17.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) received the Bruce F. Vento Public Service Award from the National Park Trust at an event at the Newseum in Washington Thursday evening. Given annually to a public servant who has “demonstrated a lifetime of outstanding service, skill, resourcefulness or innovation in the preservation of land, water or historic resources for the legacy of America,” the award honors the memory of Congressman Bruce Vento, Congresswoman McCollum’s predecessor in Congress and a former Chair of the Natural Resources Subcommittee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands. “This award is particularly special to me because I was Congressman Vento’s constituent when he served in the U.S. House. At the same time, Bruce was my constituent when I served in the Minnesota State House. More than that, he was a friend and my mentor for more than 20 years,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “As Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I’m proud that my role has given me a chance to work on many of the same issues he did.” The National Park Trust is a national charity dedicated to preserving parks today and creating park stewards for tomorrow. Previous recipients of the Bruce F. Vento Public Service Award have included such high-profile figures as Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger (R-CA) and Senators Harry Reid (D-NV) and Mark Udall (D-CO). Photos from the event are available here. The full text of Congresswoman McCollum’s remarks is below: Good evening. Thank you, Sue and Bill, for those very kind words of introduction. And I am so appreciative that Vice President Mondale’s appeared in the video -- what a great surprise! And thank you, Lloyd, Wali, and Weldon for the t-shirt and book. I’m very glad that you have had the opportunity to experience our national treasures through the Buddy Bison program. The Buddy Bison program is just one example of the tremendous work of the National Park Trust. Your vision of preserving parks today and creating park stewards for tomorrow is one I share. That’s one reason I am honored to receive the Bruce F. Vento Public Service Award. But it’s not the only reason. This award is particularly special to me because I was Congressman Vento’s constituent when he served in the U.S. House. At the same time, Bruce was my constituent when I served in the Minnesota State House. And Bruce was much, much more. Bruce Vento was a friend and my mentor for more than 20 years. Over the years, Bruce and I campaigned together and worked together on local projects. As Bruce was fighting to protect our National Parks, he still found time to partner with me on local efforts like the restoration of Lake Phalen on the east side of St. Paul. He even lent me the resources of his terrific staff and strategists, including Larry Romans, Rick Healy, and Peter Gove, all of whom are here tonight. By the time I was elected to the Minnesota State House in 1993, Bruce had already established a legacy of protecting our public lands and national treasures. Because he always fought the good fight, his work was an inspiration. Bruce would probably have given me grief for becoming an appropriator instead of an authorizer, but as Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I’m proud that my role has given me a chance to work on many of the same issues he did. One of Bruce’s greatest legacies is his tireless work to protect northern Minnesota’s Boundary Waters. The BWCA wasn’t just an issue for Bruce, it was a passion. He dedicated much of his career to ensuring this million acres of pristine land and water was protected. Everyone here tonight should understand that the Boundary Waters are again under threat -- this time from copper-sulfide mining that would do irreparable harm to this pristine area. That is why I have been working with the Obama administration to ensure that this dangerous mining is never allowed in the watershed. Bruce’s interest in conserving and protecting our treasured spaces stretched to all 50 states and beyond. I remember receiving one of Bruce’s congressional newsletters when he was waging a particularly fierce battle to preserve the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. In tiny mosquito type spilled over four pages, Bruce had laid out all the reasons we had to protect ANWR. Let me tell you: reading that letter was a commitment. It started on my kitchen table, went to my coffee table, and ended up on my bedside table. It may not have included the pithiest talking points, but that newsletter sure represented the commitment and passion of a science teacher. Bruce understood that to create the next generation of conservationists -- the park stewards of tomorrow -- we have to get young people into our parks today. As a social studies teacher, I second that. In that spirit, I am proud that President Obama and the National Park Service have launched the Every Kid in a Park and Find Your Parks initiatives. Our national parks are celebrating their Centennial, and we want every family to experience America’s natural treasures! The Every Kid in a Park initiative is just one example of the tremendous success that can be found when public, private and non-profit partners, including the National Park Trust, work together to promote conservation and environmental stewardship. I appreciate all that you do and I especially appreciate you recognizing the legacy of Bruce Vento with this award. As we remember that legacy, we should also pay tribute to the people who selflessly supported Bruce over the years: Larry Romans, Rick Healy, Peter Gove, and, above all, Sue. I have been so fortunate to benefit from your advice and friendship, even before I was elected to Congress. Thank you again for honoring me with the Bruce F. Vento Public Service Award and for being here tonight.
06.15.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, led House Democrats in opposing the FY2017 Interior-Environment Appropriations bill as it was marked up in the House Appropriations Committee today. The Interior-Environment Appropriations bill provides funding for important programs vital to protecting our nation’s natural and cultural resources, including the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Smithsonian Institution. Despite the importance of these agencies, the Republican majority cut the overall funding for the bill by $64 million overall, and targeted the EPA for particularly damaging cuts by slashing $164 million from current year funding. “Within a constrained topline number, difficult choices had to be made,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Sadly, the majority chose to cut important programs that protect the American public and conserve our natural resources.” In addition to the funding cuts, the Republican majority included 33 partisan provisions that pander to the special interests’ of polluters instead of prioritizing the public health and safety of the American people. Republicans rejected Congresswoman McCollum’s amendment to remove these divisive and harmful riders from this critical funding legislation. “These veto-bait provisions seek to turn back protections for endangered species, prevent our country from controlling greenhouse gas emissions, and undermine clean water and clean air protections,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I cannot support a bill that includes these measures.” House Republicans also rejected an amendment offered by Congresswoman McCollum in committee that would have provided emergency funding to repair the failing water infrastructure that has caused a crisis for so many families in Flint, Michigan. Despite the bill’s many shortcomings, Congresswoman McCollum offered her appreciation to subcommittee Chairman Ken Calvert for his bipartisan approach to issues important to Native Americans and several provisions that benefit National Parks. Congresswoman McCollum was also able to resurrect the Save America’s Treasures program, last funded in 2010, which restores the structures, sites, and artifacts that are our nation’s cultural and historical legacy. “I am proud of this subcommittee’s non-partisan approach to addressing issues facing our Native American brothers and sisters,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Other bright spots in the bill include continued support for the National Park Service’s Centennial Initiative, funding for the Civil Rights Initiative that aids Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and strong support for the Save America’s Treasures program.” The bill also includes direction to the U.S. Forest Service to move forward on the first phase of a purchase of Minnesota school trust lands that are currently located within the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. “For decades, a dilemma has existed over how to deal with these lands, but the state of Minnesota, the Forest Service, and stakeholders from all sides have finally come together on a collaborative, hybrid model,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “We are directing the Forest Service to move forward on the purchase included in this agreement, to capitalize on this moment of collaboration, and to fulfill their long-standing obligation to deal with the state lands in this federal wilderness.”
06.15.2016	As Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, Congresswoman Betty McCollum delivered the following opening statement as the House Appropriations Committee began the markup of the FY2017 Interior-Environment Appropriations bill: I would like to thank the Chairman and his staff for their open and collaborative approach. This subcommittee has a challenging portfolio of issues and I commend the Chairman’s efforts to find solutions in another difficult budget year. Despite those efforts, the majority’s failure to adopt a budget resolution and its piecemeal approach to the subcommittees’ 302(b) allocations made this year’s work even more difficult. This lack of transparency has placed the entire Committee at a disadvantage and it has pushed us further from regular order. This year, the subcommittee held 14 budget hearings, four of which involved American Indians and Alaska Natives. The testimony provided by the 209 witnesses clearly articulated the serious need for programs and services under this subcommittee’s jurisdiction. Unfortunately, the FY 2017 subcommittee allocation is $64 million less than last year’s enacted level. This means the needs of many important programs vital to protecting our nation’s natural and cultural resources will not be met as they far outpace a stagnant allocation. Within this constrained topline number, difficult choices had to be made and, sadly, the majority cut important programs that protect the American public and conserve our natural resources. The most significant programmatic cut is to the Environmental Protection Agency, which is slashed by $164 million. This cut will impact the Agency’s ability to protect human health and the health of our environment and to ensure clean air and clean water for our families and future generations. This year, the critical need for the EPA was unmistakable as our nation watched a tragedy unfold in Flint, Michigan where children were poisoned by lead in their drinking-water. So, I find it difficult to reconcile the cuts recommended in this bill with the public health challenges faced by this country. Flint is a culmination of years of weakening EPA through budget cuts and over-reliance on state agencies to manage federal environmental laws. All of our communities deserve and expect their government to provide clean water and basic public health protections. Especially in light of Flint, I must strongly object to the majority’s decision to reduce funding for clean water by $394 million, which is 28% below the FY 2016 enacted level. Clean water and safe drinking water go hand-in-hand; you cannot have one without the other. Residents of Flint were betrayed by their state government and to this day still do not have safe drinking water available from their tap. The levels provided in this bill for the State Revolving Funds are inadequate to deal with the decaying infrastructure in our nation, no less the emergency in Flint, Michigan. That is why it is appropriate and imperative for this committee to provide additional funds for Flint, Michigan through an appropriation with an emergency designation. In addition to the irresponsible cuts to the EPA, I am also troubled by the 30% reduction for Endangered Species Listing. Reducing funding for this program opens the door for litigation and it delays protecting and recovering vulnerable species. This bill also short changes the Land and Water Conservation Fund, which since its inception has protected conservation and recreation land in every State and supported tens of thousands of State and local projects. Yet, despite its merits, this bill slashes the LWCF program by a third. Despite this bill's shortcomings in environmental protection and resource conservation, I want to express how proud I am of this subcommittee’s non-partisan approach to addressing issues facing our Native American brothers and sisters. I am pleased that the bill recommends an increase of $343 million for programs critical to Indian country. However, I would be remiss if I did not point out that even with this increase, funding for Native American programs is still $172 million less than the Administration’s request. American Indian and Alaska Native populations face substantial hardships, and when compared to the total population, have poorer health, lower earnings, and higher poverty rates. We must continue our efforts to support these communities. That is why I applaud this bill for maintaining our commitment to provide Native American students with safe schools that are conducive to learning and for fully funding contract support costs so tribes are not penalized for exercising their self-determination rights. Another bright spots in this bill is the continued support for the National Park Service’s Centennial Initiative. The bill recommends an additional $80 million for the Centennial, which will strengthen the foundation for visitor services and make essential infrastructure investments. I am pleased an additional $3 million is provided for the Civil Rights Initiative grant program and that funding is included for grants-in-aid to Historically Black Colleges and Universities. I would also like to praise the Chairman for working with me to resurrect the Save America’s Treasures program. This program funds preservation of nationally significant sites, structures, and artifacts. I am proud we were able to restart this important program and I will work diligently to make sure it is included in the final bill. Unfortunately, I cannot extend the same enthusiasm to all of programs funded in this bill. In particular, I am disappointed that the Majority has once again given the authorizers a pass and included funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program. PILT is an expired mandatory program and it does not belong in discretionary appropriations. Mandatory spending for PILT ensures that all counties receive 100% of the authorized payment. Unfortunately, as long as we include it in our bill, the authorizers have no incentive to do their job and, as a result, critical programs are shortchanged. I am also frustrated that the majority has effectively left $1.2 billion on the table by not adopting the common sense reforms championed in Chairman Simpson’s wildfire disaster funding bill. Every member of the Interior subcommittee is a cosponsor of that bill, yet once again the majority has balked, citing committee jurisdiction. Unfortunately, jurisdictional issues did not hinder the majority from including harmful legislative riders. I must express my concern and disappointment with the 33 partisan riders in this bill. The number and outrageous nature of the riders included in this bill pander to special interests at the expense of the public good. For example, this bill contains a provision that would reverse the safety improvements developed following the Deepwater Horizon tragedy. Eleven lives were lost in that explosion. So I must express my dismay that this bill puts the profits of big oil companies ahead of worker safety. The veto-bait provisions that seek to turn back protections for endangered species, restrict control of greenhouse gas emissions, and undermine clean water and clean air protections do not belong in this bill. I acknowledge and appreciate the efforts that have been made to accommodate Democratic priorities in this bill; however, I cannot support it as drafted. Despite my current opposition, I intend to continue to work with Chairman Calvert through this year’s appropriations process to produce a responsible bill that both parties can support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
06.14.2016	On Tuesday, during his historic visit to the Capitol, Congresswoman Betty McCollum met with His Holiness the Dalai Lama. "It was an honor to meet with His Holiness the Dalai Lama yesterday during his visit to Congress. His life and work, especially his call for good stewardship of our planet, is an inspiration to all of us. I am proud to represent Minnesota's vibrant Tibetan American community in Congress, which made this meeting even more important and special for me."
06.14.2016	The horrible, tragic Orlando massacre has once again resulted in scores of people killed and wounded by a terrorist with high-powered firearms. This time it was at an LGBT night club. But it has also been at a black church, a college campus, a community center, and an elementary school. Gun violence is also found every day on the streets of our cities, in homes in our suburbs, and in our small towns too. It is an epidemic that is ripping apart communities and killing thousands of Americans every year. Many of you have asked me a simple question: what steps will you take to pass gun violence prevention legislation? It’s a good question. Right now, today, I am ready to go to the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives and vote for gun violence prevention legislation that protects the American people, takes guns off our streets, and keeps guns away from dangerous people. I support responsible gun owners, but I don’t support unlimited gun rights at the expense of thousands and thousands of innocent Americans dying from this gun violence epidemic. Gun violence prevention legislation that I support includes bills that: Make it a crime to import, sell, manufacture, transfer or possess a semiautomatic assault weapon or a large capacity ammunition feeding device (H.R. 4269). Ban the manufacture and importation of armor-piercing handgun ammunition to protect our law enforcement officers (H.R. 3497) Prohibit individuals on the “no-fly” registry from purchasing firearms (H.R. 1076). Close the gun show loophole (H.R. 2380). Prohibit a person subject to a restraining order or convicted of stalking from buying or possessing a firearm or ammunition (H.R. 2216). Prevent persons convicted of misdemeanor hate crimes from obtaining firearms (H.R. 4603). Ban the importation of assault weapons and reclassify assault weapons as non-sporting weapons and impose fines and imprisonment on people who violate the ban (H.R. 4748). Ban the possession, transfer, and importation of high capacity ammunition feeding devices (H.R. 752). End the requirement that a firearm be transferred to a prospective gun buyer if the background check cannot be completed within three business days (H.R. 3501). Allow the Justice Department to make grants to local communities for gun buyback programs to take guns off the street (H.R. 4278). Declare gun violence a public health emergency that requires the U.S. Surgeon General to submit an annual report to Congress on the effects of gun violence on the U.S. population (H.R. 224). Tragically, this Congress will not pass a single piece of gun safety legislation this year. The National Rifle Association (NRA) opposes every piece of legislation that protects our families and communities from gun violence. And the fact is that the NRA controls Congress and will obstruct and defeat any effort to fight gun violence — which even the American Medical Association has now described as a public health crisis. Since my first campaign for Congress in 2000, I have always denounced the NRA’s insidious effort to weaponize American society, which results in 35,000 gun-related deaths in the United States each year. The best way to change the laws and prevent gun violence is for Americans across the country to send leaders to Washington who care more about saving lives than making sure semi-automatic assault weapons can be in the hands of every person who wants one.
06.12.2016	Following the early morning attack at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement: "The mass killing in Orlando early this morning is being called a 'terrorist incident' by law enforcement. With dozens of victims dead and scores wounded, it is clear that this attack is a vicious crime against innocent Americans, apparently targeting the LGBT community in particular. As more details become available, authorities, policymakers, and the public will be able to draw conclusions, but for now we should all focus our heartfelt prayers on the victims and their families during this time of pain and grief."
06.07.2016	Today, a bipartisan group of 18 House members – led by Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Trent Franks (R-AZ) – wrote to Speaker Paul Ryan urging him to prioritize religious freedom in India during his meeting tomorrow with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, especially in light of ongoing violence and harassment against religious minorities, including Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, and Sikhs. “We respectfully request that during your meetings with the Prime Minister, the ‘shared value’ of the fundamental right of religious freedom will be a priority in your conversation. Religious minority communities – including Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, and Sikhs – have endured ongoing violence and harassment for decades in India, and continue to live in a climate where known perpetrators commit violence with impunity,” the Members of Congress wrote. “It is in the best interest of the United States and India to reaffirm religious freedom as a shared value in this growing partnership, and ensure that conversation concerning justice and accountability for such horrific acts of violence continues.” In the letter, the lawmakers cite several specific examples of violent attacks that have killed or displaced religious minorities. Human rights groups in India have investigated and traced these attacks to specific groups, but a current climate of impunity exists in India around such attacks and many victims never receive justice. “The important relationship between India and the United States is based on our shared democratic values. Religious minorities in India – Muslims, Christians, Buddhists, and Sikhs – deserve the freedom to live out their faith without fear,” Representative McCollum said. “As we celebrate the strong bilateral partnership between India and the United States, we must continue to prioritize religious freedom for all Indians.” In addition to Representatives McCollum and Franks, Representatives Chris Smith (R-NJ), Juan Vargas (D-CA), AndrÃ© Carson (D-IN), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Patrick Meehan (R-PA), Keith Rothfus (R-PA), Randy Weber (R-TX), Dan Kildee (D-MI), Mike Honda (D-CA), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), John Garamendi (D-CA), Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Joe Pitts (R-PA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and David Valadao (R-CA) signed the letter to Speaker Ryan.
06.06.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum today submitted an amendment to the Legislative Branch appropriations bill to prohibit funding for the Select Investigative Panel of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and end House Republicans’ witch hunt against health care providers — including Planned Parenthood — and scientific researchers. “This partisan panel was established purely as a political weapon to target law-abiding scientific researchers and health care providers, including Planned Parenthood. It is a shameful waste of Congress’ time and taxpayers’ money,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “This Republican witch hunt has resorted to disgraceful tactics just to score political points with their far-right base. Not one more cent of taxpayer funding should be spent on this blatant abuse of power.” Last month, the Washington Post condemned the panel’s “sordid proceedings” and noted that “it is abusing power at taxpayer expense.” And presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump has praised Planned Parenthood, including saying, “Planned Parenthood has done very good work for many, many -- for millions of women." Congresswoman McCollum’s amendment would strip funding for the Select Investigative Panel from the Legislative Branch appropriations bill, which is expected to be considered on the House Floor this week. Congresswoman McCollum offered a similar amendment during the House Appropriations Committee’s markup of the Legislative Branch appropriations bill. It earned bipartisan support, but was rejected on a 28-20 vote.
06.06.2016	For Muslims, the holy month of Ramadan is a special time of year marked by fasting, prayer, and family. It is a time for spiritual renewal with God and for reflection on the teachings of Islam. As Minnesotans — and Americans — we are fortunate to have a diverse, successful, and strong Muslim community. American Muslims are accomplished business leaders, celebrated sports heroes, dedicated public servants, and brave members of our Armed Forces. American Muslims are our friends, neighbors, and colleagues and we all have an obligation, especially in this time of offensive and overheated political rhetoric, to challenge the bigotry and discrimination they too often face. While that work must continue, I send warm wishes for a blessed and peaceful Ramadan to my Muslim friends and colleagues and to all Muslims in Minnesota, the United States, and throughout the world. Ramadan Kareem.
06.01.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum visited Afton on Wednesday, June 1, to tour local businesses and meet with elected officials. “I am proud to represent the people of Afton in Congress and I enjoyed visiting their hometown to help kick off the summer season,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Afton is fortunate to have many unique local businesses, and it was a pleasure to tour several and meet their owners. I also appreciated the opportunity to meet with Mayor Bend, Council Member Palmquist, and City Administrator Moorse.” Among Congresswoman McCollum’s stops were visits to Little Foot Farm and Greenhouse, Selma’s Ice Cream Parlor, Squire House Gardens, and The Lumberyard Pub. Congresswoman McCollum also took a walking tour through Afton with Mayor Richard Bend, Council Members Bill Palmquist and Stan Ross, and City Administrator Ronald Moorse.
05.30.2016	On Monday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum attended Memorial Day ceremonies hosted by the American Legion Post 39 and Veterans of Foreign Wars Arthur O. Haukland Post 1350 at Lakeview and Evergreen Cemeteries in North St. Paul, as well as the Sailors Lost at Sea Memorial ceremony hosted by the Keep Zimmer Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 1782 in White Bear Lake. "Throughout our nation’s history, the brave men and women of our Armed Forces have defended our country and helped to ensure peace and stability around the globe. Each year on Memorial Day, we pause to honor the servicemen and women who gave their lives in service to our country," Congresswoman McCollum said. "Today, all Minnesotans remember these fallen heroes and keep their comrades and families in our thoughts and prayers."
05.25.2016	On Wednesday, the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee conducted a markup of the Fiscal Year 2017 Interior-Environment appropriations bill. As the lead Democrat on the committee, Congresswoman McCollum delivered this opening statement: Thank you Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chairman and his staff for their open and collaborative approach. This subcommittee has a challenging portfolio of issues and I commend the Chairman’s efforts to find solutions in another difficult budget year. The majority’s failure to adopt a budget resolution and its piecemeal approach to the subcommittees’ 302(b) allocations made this year’s work even more difficult. Moreover, such a lack of transparency has placed the entire Committee at a disadvantage and pushed us further from regular order. The FY 2017 subcommittee allocation is $64 million less than the fiscal year 2016 enacted level. This means the needs of many important programs vital to protecting our nation’s natural and cultural resources will not be met as they far outpace a stagnant allocation. Within this constrained topline number, difficult choices had to be made and, sadly, important programs vital to protecting our nation’s natural and cultural resources did not receive adequate funding. The most significant programmatic cut is to the Environmental Protection Agency, which would receive $164 million less thanthe FY 2016 enacted level. This cut will impact the Agency’s ability to protect human health and the health of our environment and to ensure clean air and clean water for our families and for our children. This year, the critical need for the EPA was unmistakable as our nation watched a tragedy unfold in Flint, Michigan where children were poisoned by lead in their drinking-water. So, I find it difficult to reconcile the cuts recommended in this bill with the public health challenges faced by this country. Flint is a culmination of years of weakening EPA through budget cuts and over-reliance on state agencies to manage federal environmental laws. All of our communities deserve and expect their overnment to provide clean water and basic public health protections. Residents of Flint were betrayed by their state government and to this day still do not have safe drinking water available from their tap. The levels provided in this bill for the State Revolving Funds are inadequate to deal with the decaying infrastructure in our nation, no less the emergency in Flint, Michigan. That is why it is appropriate and imperative for this committee to provide additional funds for Flint, Michigan under an emergency designation. While this bill does not provide funds specifically for Flint, it appropriately includes bill language that providesadditional authority for states to offer debt relief in areas with elevated levels of lead in drinking water. I am proud of this subcommittee’s non-partisan approach to addressing issues facing our Native American brothers and sisters. While I am pleased the bill recommends an increase of $343 million for programs critical to Indian country, I would be remiss if I did not point out that even with this increase, funding for Native American programs is still $172 million less than the Administration’s request. Nonetheless, this bill continues ourcommitment to providing Native American students with safe schools that are conducive to learning and it fully funds contract support costs so tribes are not penalized for exercising their self-determination rights. The bill also recommends $3.9 billion or 12% of the subcommittee’s allocation for wildland fire, but once again the majority has failed to adopt the common sense reforms championed in Chairman Simpson’s wildfire disaster funding bill. Every member of this subcommittee is a cosponsor of that bill, yet once again the majority has balked, citing committee jurisdiction. Unfortunately, jurisdictional issues did not hinder the majority from including harmful legislative riders. I must express my concern and disappointment with the 29 partisan riders in this bill. Such veto-bait provisions that seek to turn back protections for endangered species, restrict control of greenhouse gas emissions, and undermine clean water and clean air protections do not belong in thisbill. Their effect would be to undermine important environmental laws, endanger public health and safety, and deny that climate change is having an impact on our planet. One of the bright spots in this bill is the continued support for the National Park Service’s Centennial Initiative. The bill recommends an additional $80 million for the Centennial. These funds will strengthen the foundation for visitor services and make essential infrastructure investments. I am also pleased that an additional $3 million is provided for the Civil Rights Initiative grant program and that funding is included for grants-in-aid to Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Finally, I would like to praise the Chairman for working with me to resurrectthe Save America’s Treasures program. This program funds preservation of nationally significant sites, structures, and artifacts. I am proud we were able to restart this important program and I plan to work diligently to make sure it is included in the final bill. I look forward to working together through this year’s appropriations process to produce a responsible bill that both parties can support. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I yield back.
05.24.2016	Following today’s release of the fiscal year 2017 Interior-Environment appropriations bill draft — which is intended to fund vital programs that protect our nation’s natural and cultural resources — Interior-Environment Subcommittee Ranking Member Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “I have appreciated Chairman Calvert’s open and collaborative approach to crafting this bill and am pleased with the strong, bipartisan way it addresses many important matters, including Tribal issues, support for the National Park Service’s Centennial Initiative, and the restoration of the Save America’s Treasures program. While I am not surprised, I am disappointed that House Republicans have filled this bill with dozens of partisan riders that undermine clean air and clean water rules, prevent regulation of greenhouse gases, and roll back protections for endangered species. As we consider this bill, Democrats will put the health and safety of American families — not polluters’ special interests — first.”
05.23.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) met this afternoon with executives from Antofagasta, the Chilean-based parent company of Twin Metals, regarding the company’s mining leases in the Rainy River Drainage Basin. After the meeting, Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “I appreciated the opportunity to meet with executives from Antofagasta and explain my strong opposition to sulfide-ore copper mining in the Rainy River Drainage Basin. The Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and Voyageurs National Park are federal lands that must be protected. There is no evidence that sulfide-ore copper mining can be conducted in this area without permanently damaging these national treasures. While I hope that this Chilean company will reconsider its plans to conduct this damaging mining, I will continue to build support for my bill to protect these treasures — the National Park and Wilderness Waters Protection Forever Act — and urge the Obama administration to prevent sulfide-ore copper mining in this area.”
05.19.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) voted against the Military Construction-VA appropriations bill today and released the following statement: “Republican leadership today abused their power and violated their professed principle of regular order in order to defeat an important amendment that would have protected LGBT Americans from discrimination. The arm twisting that Republican leadership undertook to force members to change their votes has no place in the House of Representatives. I supported the underlying bill in the Appropriations Committee and — as a former member of the Military Construction-VA Appropriations Subcommittee — I understand the importance of this legislation. However, given House Republicans’ blatant abuse of power on the floor today, I had no choice but to oppose this bill.”
05.18.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum today voted against H.R. 4909, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) and released the following statement: “Each year, the National Defense Authorization Act provides a framework for our armed forces in the fiscal year ahead. Crafting and considering this legislation is a serious matter, but House Republicans have instead chosen to intentionally violate last year’s Bipartisan Budget Act and abdicate this Congress’ solemn responsibility to sufficiently fund our troops. The legislation ceases funding for Overseas Contingency Operations — the account that pays for our country’s fight against ISIS and other important military efforts — next April, long before the fiscal year ends. It is reckless and irresponsible to place our servicemen and women in the middle of a partisan budget fight just months into the next president’s term. Moreover, in an effort to pander to far-right conservatives, the legislation includes several distrubing ideological provisions. By undoing protections that are currently in place, it allows discrimination against LGBT Americans who work for federal contractors and grantees. This bill would also prevent President Obama from responsibly closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay, ensuring that it remains a propaganda tool for terrorists and a threat to our national security.”
05.18.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum today announced that the Oakdale Fire Department has received a $215,048 grant from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to purchase new protective equipment for the city’s firefighters. “I am very pleased that the Oakdale Fire Department is receiving this federal funding to buy important safety equipment,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Protecting our first responders must be a top priority. This grant will make it easier for Oakdale’s firefighters to do their job and keep our communities safe.” The funding will allow the Oakdale Fire Department to purchase new self-contained breathing apparatus equipment to replace outdated equipment that is more than a decade old. In December, Congresswoman McCollum wrote to FEMA in strong support of Oakdale’s grant application.
05.17.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) today offered an amendment in the House Appropriations Committee to ensure no additional taxpayer dollars are spent on the Select Investigative Panel of the Committee on Energy and Commerce, informally known as the Select Committee to Target Planned Parenthood. Congresswoman McCollum’s amendment would have struck funding for the panel from the Legislative Branch appropriations bill; it was defeated on a 28-20 vote. “This panel is a shameful abuse of Congressional power, a complete waste of time, and a total waste of money,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “It is conducting a partisan inquisition with no other purpose than to go after an organization that even Donald Trump says ‘has done very good work for many, many – for millions of women.’” In March, Trump – the presumptive Republican nominee for President – defended the organization, saying, "Look, Planned Parenthood has done very good work for many, many -- for millions of women."
05.10.2016	The Treasury Department’s rejection of a proposed plan to cut retirement benefits to over 400,000 workers and retirees of the Teamsters’ Central States Pension Fund provides Congress needed time to fix this problem and stabilize this fund. With the retirement security of 22,000 Minnesotans on the line I don’t want to see promises broken or retirees forced into poverty. I am one of 47 members co-sponsoring the “Keep Our Pension Promises Act” (H.R. 2844) which was introduced by my colleague Rep. Marcy Kaptur (D-OH). Passing this legislation is an important step toward protecting pensions and the retirement security earned by hard working Americans. The Teamsters who have their retirements invested in the Central States Pension deserve our help and I am proud to stand with them.
05.06.2016	ST. PAUL — At an event for family, educators, and area service academy representatives on May 5, Congresswoman Betty McCollum recognized 13 Fourth District residents who will attend U.S. Service Academies next fall. Trey Lervick (Woodbury High School), Nadeen Lieberman (Laurel Springs School), Marco Pirozzoli (Mahtomedi High School), Joe Puglisi (Woodbury High School), Katie Scheibner (East Ridge High School), Matthew Schwartz (Mahtomedi High School), and Sarah Warner (North High School) will all attend the United States Air Force Academy in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Will Dietz (St. Thomas Academy), Kjetil Cline (IMG Academy), Michael Rudisill (St. Thomas Academy), and Peter Valentas (Trinity School at River Ridge) will attend the United States Military Academy at West Point, New York, while Jack Cordero (St. Thomas Academy) and Kallman Parry (Henry Sibley High School) will attend the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. “It is my honor to nominate outstanding young men and women to the U.S. Service Academies each year and I am delighted that these 13 residents will be attending academies this fall,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Our entire community should be very proud of these future leaders.” Congresswoman McCollum nominated all 13 students to their respective academies. Each received and accepted an appointment to attend. A total of 13 Fourth District residents nominated by Congresswoman McCollum have accepted appointments to attend a U.S. Service Academy starting this fall.
04.29.2016	Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum met with Dr. Michael Lomax, president and CEO of the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) for a wide-ranging discussion about Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU), the preservation of sites associated with African American history and the civil rights movement, and other topics. "I enjoyed meeting with Dr. Lomax to discuss the many ways we can work together to expand educational opportunities for Minnesota's diverse student population. I was particularly impressed with UNCF's collaboration with the African American community in our state to enable more students to attend these excellent institutions," Congresswoman McCollum said. "Dr. Lomax and I discussed the need for historic preservation on HBCU campuses, something I have advocated for as Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations subcommittee. I was proud to share with Dr. Lomax my work to restore funding for Save America's Treasures, a program that has been used to preserve the history of the civil rights movement with projects such as the restoration of Rosa Parks' bus."
04.28.2016	U.S. Representative Betty McCollum and U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken today urged the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to set and maintain the highest standards for remediation as it finalizes an agreement with the U.S. Army on the cleanup of the Round Lake superfund site. Round Lake is part of the Minnesota National Wildlife Refuge system, which protects vital habitat for Minnesota’s waterfowl and fish and provides outdoor recreation opportunities close to the Twin Cities. The toxic pollution that prevents the public use of Round Lake is a result of decades of contamination by the federal government and its contractors. In the letter, the lawmakers note with concern that the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency has recommended a more comprehensive cleanup effort than what the U.S. Army has currently proposed. They strongly encourage the EPA to ensure the Army conducts a complete cleanup of the site. “This troubled environmental situation at the Round Lake site has been under consideration for many years. The time has come for an appropriate resolution and remediation of Round Lake,” the lawmakers wrote. “As you work to finalize an agreement with the Army on the remediation of the Round Lake site, we urge you to take and maintain a position on the cleanup that holds our federal government to the highest standards for the remediation of its former contamination.” The full text of the letter the lawmakers sent is below: Dear Mr. Kaplan: We are contacting your office about the assessment and remediation of contamination of the Round Lake portion of the former Twin Cities Army Ammunition Plant, now designated as the New Brighton/Arden Hills Superfund Site. The contamination of the groundwater, soil, and surface water at the Round Lake site and the adequacy of the cleanup is a major concern for our constituents, and as their Members of Congress we have an ongoing interest in the cleanup and management of Round Lake and the superfund site as a whole. As a unit of the Minnesota Valley National Wildlife Refuge, the management of Round Lake will be the responsibility of U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) for the foreseeable future. We ask that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pay special attention to the views of the USFWS on remediation requirements. We understand that the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA or Superfund) establishes what are known as Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements, and that legal counsel for both the EPA and the Department of the Interior have concluded that the requirements of the National Wildlife Refuge System Improvement Act should apply. We support addressing these requirements in the identification of contamination, the feasibility study, and any remediation plan that is ultimately approved for Round Lake. The assessment of Round Lake has disclosed unacceptable ecological risks due to the presence of heavy metals and PCBs at toxic levels. Although the assessment was geared toward wildlife, we note with concern that this Refuge is surrounded by residential and commercial developments and is part of a major metropolitan area. Like other wildlife refuges in urban areas, this Refuge unit should be managed to allow human use. This is an important function of the Round Lake Unit and must be accounted for in the assessment and remediation of contamination. As the Agency that reviews and approves the adequacy of assessments, feasibility studies, and remediation plans, we ask the EPA to set a high standard for addressing the PCB and heavy metal problems at Round Lake. This is a superfund site owned by the federal government and contaminated by a federal agency and its contractors. The EPA has a special obligation to ensure that the U.S. Army do nothing less than a complete cleanup that makes the site safe for both conservation and sustained public use. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency also has a consultative role in the cleanup, and we have been advised of their recommendation that the Army’s remediation effort be more comprehensive. It would be unacceptable if our federal cleanup effort does not measure up to the standard that the State of Minnesota has requested. We encourage EPA to use the remediation of this federally contaminated site to serve as an example for the proper cleanup of private superfund sites and oversight by state agencies of such matters. This troubled environmental situation at the Round Lake site has been under consideration for many years. The time has come for an appropriate resolution and remediation of Round Lake. We ask that you respond to these concerns by answering the following questions: Is the EPA including consideration of the National Wildlife Refuge System Improvement Act as part of the Applicable or Relevant and Appropriate Requirements in the Round Lake assessment and feasibility study? Are there any reasons why the EPA would not require that the Army’s remediation manage the ecological risks identified with the Round Lake site so that it provides high quality ecological and public use benefits as part of the National Wildlife Refuge system? What is the EPA’s role in setting and overseeing a timetable for the Army to complete its efforts with the remediation of the Round Lake site? As you work to finalize an agreement with the Army on the remediation of the Round Lake site, we urge you to take and maintain a position on the cleanup that holds our federal government to the highest standards for the remediation of its former contamination.
04.27.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement today following the sentencing in Federal District Court of former Speaker of the House J. Dennis Hastert (R-IL) to 15 months in prison for illegal bank transactions in an effort to cover up his sexual abuse of students while he was a high school wrestling coach: “There is neither joy nor sufficient justice in today’s sentencing of a man and former House Speaker who inflicted lifetimes of pain on his victims. Mr. Hastert is a perpetrator of child sexual abuse who used a facade of moral authority to commit and then cover-up his crimes. The courageous testimony of one of his victims at today’s hearing clearly demonstrated Mr. Hastert’s betrayal of his community, constituents, colleagues and country. The victims and their families deserve our support and compassion after suffering for far too long.”
04.22.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement today in recognition of Earth Day: “Earth Day is a time to reflect on our efforts to protect the world’s irreplaceable resources – the air we breathe, the water we drink, the land we use, the biodiversity we depend on– for future generations. This Earth Day, I am proud of the support we have received from within the Fourth District and throughout the country for my bill, the National Park and Wilderness Waters Protection Forever Act. This important bill would protect the iconic Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCA) and Voyageurs National Park from the threats of sulfite mining activity. At the same time, I am disappointed by Congress’ failure to respond to climate change. The Paris Agreement and President Obama’s Clean Power Plan take important steps to address climate change and improve our air quality, but Congress must also act. As both a Congresswoman and as the Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, I take very seriously the need to be a good steward of our planet. Today, we should recommit ourselves to coming together and building a cleaner, healthier world.”
04.20.2016	In a letter sent to Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack has written that he shares the Congresswoman’s concerns that “inappropriate mining could do irreparable damage” to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCA) and Voyageurs National Park. Vilsack also confirmed that the Department of Agriculture’s Forest Service is working closely with the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land Management to review mining lease renewals in the area and to analyze their potential impacts on the watershed. Dated March 31, Secretary Vilsack’s letter was in reply to Congresswoman McCollum’s February 2 letter sent to him, Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, and Christina Goldfuss, the director of the White House Council on Environmental Quality. In that letter, Congresswoman McCollum urged the administration officials to protect the Bound Waters Canoe Area and Voyageurs National Park from sulfide-ore copper mining in the Rainy River Drainage Basin watershed, which includes much of the Superior National Forest. Here is the text of Secretary Vilsack's letter: Dear Congresswoman McCollum: Thank you for your letter of February 2, 2016, regarding the management of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness (BWCAW) and Voyageurs National Park. I share your concern with respect to these special resources, and I apologize for the delayed response. The BWCAW is noted for its abundant ecological diversity, pristine wildlands, and exceptional recreational opportunities. Lands within the Superior National Forest, south and southwest of the BWCAW, are also known for occurrences of copper, nickel, platinum, palladium, gold, and silver. We share your concerns that inappropriate mining could do irreparable damage. The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Forest Service is working closely with the Bureau of Land Management to review the status of the pending lease renewals and explore options for more comprehensively analyzing and mitigate the potential impacts to the watershed. Again, thank you for writing and for your long-time support of this special place. ... Sincerely /s/ Thomas J. Vilsack Secretary
04.19.2016	WASHINGTON — This morning, Congresswoman Betty McCollum addressed a large delegation of the Minnesota Oromo community visiting Washington today to attend a briefing held by the United States House of Representative’s Tom Lantos Human Rights Commission. In her address, Congresswoman McCollum reiterated her concern about human rights abuses against the Oromo people in Ethiopia. Congresswoman McCollum delivered the following remarks: Greetings and welcome to Washington! Thank you for being here today in the U.S. House to add your voices to the cause of human rights in Ethiopia. The Lantos Human Rights Commission briefing today is an important step to informing and educating Congress about the unacceptable treatment of Oromos in Ethiopia. The current situation in Ethiopia must not be allowed to continue. The Oromo people are suffering and I share your concern. Peaceful protesters are being imprisoned, they are being tortured, they are being killed. The Ethiopian Government must be held accountable and it will take pressure from Congress and the Obama Administration to end the repression of the people of Oromia. Later this week I will be meeting with Ethiopia’s ambassador to the U.S. and the message that I will deliver is – stop the detentions, stop the repression, stop the killing – and respect human rights! Ethiopia benefits greatly from its relationship with the United States. The American people provide hundreds of millions of dollars of food aid, health care funding, and agriculture assistance to Ethiopia. We must demand in return that human rights be respected. We must demand human rights for the Oromo people! Friends, I am proud to represent so many Oromo Americans who live my district in Minnesota. Thank you for sharing your strong voices! Thank you for fighting for human rights!
04.15.2016	To give more students the opportunity to participate, the deadline for submissions to Congresswoman Betty McCollum’s Congressional Art Competition has been extended to 6:00 p.m. Tuesday, April 19. There has already been strong interest in this year’s contest, which is open to all high school students either attending school or residing in the Fourth Congressional District. In addition to the display of their artwork in the U.S. Capitol, the winner will receive two free airline tickets to Washington, D. C. to attend the exhibit’s opening. Runners-up will be displayed in Congresswoman McCollum’s offices in St. Paul and in Washington, D. C. For the first time, all entries will also be display at the Landmark Gallery in the Schmidt Artist Lofts during this year’s St. Paul Art Crawl, held April 22 to 24. Congresswoman McCollum recently discussed that exciting partnership with the City of St. Paul’s Nick Nelson here. Entries may be mailed or dropped off at the St. Paul office in the Blair Arcade Building and must be received by 6:00 p.m. Tuesday, April 19. The address is: 165 Western Avenue North, Suite 17 Saint Paul, MN 55102 Only one submission per student is allowed. Complete guidelines and forms are available here. Teachers and students are encouraged to contact Liz De La Torre in Congresswoman McCollum's office at 651-224-9191 or Liz.DeLaTorre@mail.house.gov with any questions.
04.15.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, U.S. House Republicans failed to meet the statutory deadline to enact the fiscal year 2017 budget resolution. Passing the budget resolution should have been especially straightforward this year, because the House and Senate passed – and the President signed – a bipartisan agreement setting overall spending levels for fiscal years 2016 and 2017. However, House Republican leaders declined to bring their proposed budget to the floor for an up-or-down vote because of infighting within the House Republican Conference as some of their Members seek draconian cuts to programs for working families, people with disabilities, and seniors. This failure has serious consequences for the work of the Appropriations Committee, where Congresswoman McCollum serves as Ranking Member of the Interior-Environment Subcommittee. “There is a budget agreement in place and that agreement is the law of the land,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Instead of undermining that agreement with sharp cuts to investments in education and infrastructure and another attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the Republican majority should pass a budget based on last year's bipartisan agreement and allow for a fully transparent appropriations process.” “Further infighting and political game playing serve only to make the appropriations process more difficult and, once again, demonstrate House Republicans’ failure to govern responsibly,” Congresswoman McCollum continued. “It is time we come together, pass a budget, and put the needs of the American people first.”
04.12.2016	Today, the United States House of Representatives passed the Global Food Security Act (H.R. 1567), a bill which would take significant steps to fight hunger worldwide by empowering and supporting small-scale local farmers. Congresswoman McCollum was the lead Democratic sponsor of the bill, which was introduced by Rep. Christopher Smith (R-NJ). “In the world’s poorest countries, malnutrition and stunting affect hundreds of millions of people and undermine the development of entire countries. This tragedy is made all the worse because it is completely preventable," Representative McCollum said. "The Global Food Security Act invests in hardworking smallholder farmers around the world to reduce hunger and improve nutrition. In particular, it empowers women farmers with the tools, resources, education, and training they need to grow their way out of poverty." "This critical investment in global food security builds healthier families, strengthens communities, and improves our own national security. I appreciate the hard work so many supporters of this legislation have put into its passage, and I thank my colleagues for their support today.”
04.07.2016	Following today’s shooting at the Dacotah Building in St. Paul, across the street from Congresswoman McCollum’s District Office at 165 Western Avenue North, Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of the victim in today’s shooting at Selby and Western Avenues, across the street from my district office in St. Paul. My staff is safe and accounted for, and I thank the St. Paul police for their swift response.”
04.05.2016	Today, Department of the Interior Acting Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs Larry Roberts announced that the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe has been prioritized for Fiscal Year 2016 funding to replace the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig High School. This funding is the direct result of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee’s restoration of the Replacement Facility Construction line item in the Fiscal Year 2016 Omnibus Appropriations Act. For the five previous years no funding had been appropriated for replacement facilities. Congresswoman McCollum, the Subcommittee’s Ranking Member, released the following statement: “The federal government has a responsibility to ensure that every child in a Bureau of Indian Education school receives a high-quality education in a safe, healthy facility. Today’s announcement is an important step in meeting that obligation for the children of the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe. For years, I have worked with Chairwoman Carri Jones, the students of Leech Lake, and all the other band members to secure bipartisan support for the replacement of the Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig High School. Last year, my colleagues and I on the Appropriations Committee secured funding for replacement facilities that will allow the unsafe Bug High School to be replaced. Even as I celebrate this news with Leech Lake today, much work remains to be done for our Bureau of Indian Education schools. I am committed to working with my colleagues and tribal leaders throughout this country to ensure that every child in a BIE school is healthy, safe and receiving a high-quality education.” ####
03.31.2016	On Tuesday, April 12, 2016, Congresswoman Betty McCollum's (MN-04) office will host an informational event to discuss the nomination process and application requirements for admission to a U.S. Service Academy. WHO: Guest speakers will include representatives from: U.S. Air Force Academy at Colorado Springs, Colorado U.S. Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, New York U.S. Military Academy at West Point, New York U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland WHAT: Information session about U.S. Service Academy educational opportunities, application and nomination process. WHEN: Tuesday, April 12, 2016 6:30 p.m. – 8:30 p.m. WHERE: Mounds View High School, The Forum 1900 Lake Valentine Road, Arden Hills, MN 55112 Every year Members of Congress nominate qualified individuals as candidates from the districts they represent. Final appointment selections are made by each service academy. Congresswoman McCollum will begin accepting applications July 1, 2016 for nominations to the academies from interested students from the Fourth Congressional District. The application deadline is Monday, November 7, 2016. During Academy Information Night, students will have an opportunity to ask questions, discuss the application process, and learn more about the programs, opportunities and life at the academies. Materials and nomination forms will be available to interested individuals at the information session. The information session is open to anyone interested in attending a U.S. Service Academy. However, Congresswoman McCollum can only nominate individuals from the Fourth Congressional District. Other Congressional offices have been invited to outline the nomination processes in their respective offices and information will be available to determine the Congressional District where you reside, and how to contact other offices. In addition, the nomination requirements and application form are available here. Questions about this event may be directed to Connie Haddeland, Academy Coordinator, Office of Congresswoman McCollum, 651-224-9191.
03.30.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum today invited high school students in Minnesota’s Fourth Congressional District to participate in the 2016 Congressional Art Competition. Submissions are due on Friday, April 15, 2016 by 6:00 p.m. “The Congressional Art Competition is an opportunity to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of Minnesota’s Fourth District,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I hope that many students will participate in the competition and I look forward to seeing the grand prize winner’s work displayed in the U.S. Capitol.” The contest is open to all high school students either attending school or residing in the Fourth Congressional District. In addition to the display of their artwork in the U.S. Capitol, the winner will also receive two free airline tickets to Washington, D. C. to attend the exhibit’s opening. Runners-up will be displayed in Congresswoman McCollum’s offices in St. Paul and in Washington, D. C. New this year, the Fourth District Congressional Art Competition will be a destination in the 2016 St. Paul Art Crawl. All entries will be displayed in an exhibit at the Landmark Gallery in the Schmidt Artist Lofts the weekend of the Art Crawl (April 22 – April 24, 2016). This exciting new partnership will give additional exposure for student artists by showcasing their talent and hard work. Entries may be mailed or dropped off at the St. Paul office in the Blair Arcade Building and must be received by Friday, April 15th, 2016 by 6:00PM: 165 Western Avenue North, Suite 17 Saint Paul, MN 55102 Only one submission per student is allowed. Complete guidelines and forms are available here. Teachers and students are encouraged to contact Liz De La Torre in Congresswoman McCollum's office at 651-224-9191 or Liz.DeLaTorre@mail.house.gov with any questions.
03.22.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-D) issued the following statement in response to the terrorist attacks in Brussels today: ISIS has taken responsibility for this morning’s terrorist attack on multiple sites in Brussels, reportedly killing dozens and wounding hundreds. Now, as the people of Belgium heal the wounded and mourn the dead, it is the duty of all of Europe, the United States, and the entire civilized world to remain vigilant, fully coordinate intelligence resources, and take action to destroy ISIS, their supporters, and their terrorist cells wherever they are found. The horrible scenes in Brussels should serve as notice to Congress and the American people that we must unite as a nation to protect our freedoms, our security, and our future. The very real and deadly threats our nation faces, along with allies and friends around the world, requires a unity of purpose and actions that exceed the current base level of political and policy discourse all too common in our country. President Obama and the men and women in the law enforcement, intelligence, and counter-terrorism communities – along with our military – deserve our full support and they confront dangerous and deadly these threats on a daily basis. The victims in Brussels and the people of Belgium have our full support and will remain in our prayers.
03.22.2016	Opening statement by Ranking Member Betty McCollum (MN-D) at the March 22, 2016 Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee Hearing with Administrator Gina McCarthy to discuss the Environmental Protection Agency's proposed $8.27 billion fiscal year 2017 budget. I would like to join Chairman Calvert in welcoming Administrator McCarthy to the subcommittee this morning. The Environmental Protection Agency was created to protect human health and the health of our environment and to ensure clean air and clean water for our families and for our children. In the 1970s, when communities across this nation saw the effects of mass pollution in their rivers and skies, the EPA was a bipartisan solution to address this public health crisis. It was an idea my Republican mother and my Democratic father both supported. Because of the success of the EPA, today we often take for granted the quality of the water from our taps or the air that we breathe. This year, however, the critical need for the EPA was once again unmistakable. Our nation has watched a tragedy unfold in Flint, Michigan where children were poisoned by lead in their drinking water. Residents of Flint were betrayed by their state government and to this day still do not have safe drinking water available from their tap. This scandal shines a bright light on why it is necessary to have federal protections for our environment, our water, our public health. Critics often argue that states are best able to regulate themselves. But Flint shows us that there is a role for the federal government in protecting these communities. And we, here in Congress, needs to look at the underlying law to ensure EPA can step in when a State is ignoring the public health of its citizens. Parents should be able to trust that their children are not being poisoned at school, at their places of worship, or in their own homes. While the situation in Flint is unique because it was created by the state’s failure to implement protections for its residents, the issue of aging water infrastructure and lead pipes is pervasive. It is time for this country to have a serious discussion about its infrastructure. It is unconscionable that in America, the richest country in the world, there are children whose physical and cognitive development is being harmed because they lack access to clean drinking water – a basic human right. Turning to the budget request, the President’s Fiscal Year 2017 budget request includes $8.27 billion for EPA. That amount is $127 million above the Fiscal Year 2016 enacted level. The request includes increases for core programs, targeting resources toward programs that matter most to public health and the environment. Unfortunately, I don’t think the budget goes far enough. The budget requests an additional $77 million for grants to support states and tribes so they can implement their environmental programs. However, this increase would not even bring these grants back to FY 2012 levels. Furthermore, we all realize this nation’s water infrastructure is in crisis, yet, the Clean Water State Revolving Fund, which is a major funding source for municipal water infrastructure projects, is slashed by $414 million. I also must express my disappointment that, once again, the Administration is proposing to cut $50 million from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The Great Lakes Restoration Initiative has made measurable strides in protecting and restoring the Great Lakes ecosystem, but much more work remains to be done. With the great unmet demand for both water infrastructure and restoration projects, I have to I wonder if these cuts were proposed not on their merits, but because the Agency was trying to request other increases within an already strained top line number. The SRF and GLRI programs are among the few in EPA that have vocal bipartisan support. So, I will be working with Chairman Calvert to restore these cuts. I only wish that we could have the same kind of bipartisan support to restore the cuts that the agency’s core operations have faced. For five years, EPA has been under attack and its budget has been slashed. Opponents of EPA view this as a victory, but the crisis in Flint, Michigan shows what they really were – irresponsible cuts that jeopardize EPA’s ability to provide state oversight and protect the public. I truly hope that something positive can come from this tragedy. That it will inspire both sides of the aisle to come together, as we did in the creation of the EPA, and ensure proper funding for our environmental regulations and public infrastructure, so that no mother has to worry that the water she gives her baby is poison. Administrator McCarthy, I appreciate the work that you and the employees of the EPA do and I look forward to your testimony this morning. Thank you Mr. Chairman.
03.17.2016	(WASHINGTON, D.C.) March 16, 2016 — Congresswoman Betty McCollum was one of eight members of Congress recognized today by leading national conservation groups for their critical role in protecting the Endangered Species Act. The “Champions of the Endangered Species Act” reception featured former Secretary of the Interior Bruce Babbitt and, in addition to Rep. McCollum, honored Senators Cory Booker (D-NJ), Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Tom Udall (D-NM), Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI), and House members Don Beyer (D-VA), RaÃºl Grijalva (D-AZ), and Niki Tsongas (D-MA). Rep. McCollum called the award a "tremendous honor" and reiterated her thanks to all the groups and their membership for assisting in last year's battle to rid the omnibus appropriations act of over two hundred harmful policy riders including many that directly targeted the Endangered Species Act. "Whether it is protecting gray wolves in Minnesota or the African elephant, I am committed to standing with you to make sure future generations are not without these precious species,” McCollum said. "I am honored to receive this recognition from all of you who work day in and day out to preserve our nation's wildlife and the ecosystems they rely on." The honorees were recognized by the Animal Welfare Institute, Audubon, Born Free USA, the Center for Biological Diversity, Defenders of Wildlife, Earthjustice, the Endangered Species Coalition, Environmental Defense Fund, the League of Conservation Voters, the Native Plant Conservation Campaign, the International Fund for Animal Welfare, the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Sierra Club, the Union of Concerned Scientists, WildEarth Guardians, and Wildlands Network. The groups jointly issued the following statement: “We celebrate and honor these conservation leaders whose vision and leadership has created a legacy of immeasurable benefit to our environment, to our nation’s most imperiled wildlife, and to our communities. Their tireless support for wildlife is vital as powerful special interests continue efforts to weaken or eliminate the Endangered Species Act and other bedrock conservation laws grounded in science." The Endangered Species Act is more at risk today than ever before, as several members of Congress continue to push legislative agendas designed to undermine the Act, threatening public lands and iconic wildlife. Collectively, the legislative attacks on the Endangered Species Act introduced by this Congress represent the most sweeping attacks since the landmark conservation law was passed 43 years ago. The repeated attacks come despite strong public support for the Endangered Species Act. A July 2015 poll found that 90 percent of U.S. voters support the Endangered Species Act, affirming similar findings from previous polls over the last decade. ####
03.17.2016	(March 16, 2016) Rep. Betty McCollum issued the following statement today upon the announcement by President Barack Obama that he is nominating Judge Merrick Garland to the U.S. Supreme Court: "President Obama has nominated Federal Appeals Court Judge Merrick Garland to the U.S. Supreme Court. He is a former federal prosecutor and a highly respected jurist. Playing election year politics, Republicans in the Senate are determined to deny Judge Garland a hearing and floor vote, using the presidential campaign as an excuse for inaction, blatantly abdicating their duty under the Constitution. Why? In the hope that Donald Trump will be elected president and make his own nomination in 2017? With a vacancy on the Supreme Court the American people must demand that the U.S. Senate fulfill its constitutional responsibility and duty – 'Advice and Consent' – to hold a hearing and a vote on this highly qualified judicial nominee."
03.16.2016	Remarks by Congresswoman Betty McCollum National Community Action Foundation Legislative Conference March 16, 2016 Good afternoon! I am thrilled to be with you today. The first and most important thing I need to say today is … thank you! Thank you for your work. Thank you for making a difference in the lives of our fellow citizens. Thank you for being community leaders and change agents. Not only am I appreciative, I am grateful for your work because it makes our communities and our country stronger. With us today is a man who is the face of Community Action in Washington – and he works tirelessly for you. David Bradley is a trusted friend of mine. He is passionate about the work he does for you. He is a friend to Democrats, Republicans, and anyone else who has 5 minutes to hear about fighting poverty and creating opportunity. I do think David travels too much and he works too hard, so you all need to tell him to slow down because he won’t listen to me! As you all know, the Community Services Block Grant was funded this year at $715 million – a $41 million increase over FY2015. In this very, very tough budget environment that funding increase was no miracle, it was a very heavy lift by folks who know the valuable and important work you are doing! So let’s give credit where it is due. Thank you David Bradley! Thank you Congressman Tom Cole, my good friend from Oklahoma! Thank you Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro! Now, as we look to the 2017 budget – let’s sustain that funding increase. And you know you have my full support! This is an important presidential election year which results in very low expectations for Congress to move a lot of legislation. And, even though I hope there will be a new Speaker next year, I nonetheless want Speaker Paul Ryan and this Congress to be successful because I want our country and the American people to be successful. Speaker Ryan is a good man and I know, in his own way, he is committed to fighting poverty. It is my hope Republicans and Democrats, the House and Senate, can unite behind a bill that is bipartisan with 93 co-sponsors, is non-controversial, and will modernize one of our country’s most important and successful anti-poverty programs. So, I want to urge Speaker Ryan and House leadership to move forward and bring H.R. 1655 to the floor so we can pass the Community Economic Opportunity Act of 2015 … and help our Community Action agencies be even more effective in meeting the needs of people who are seeking a better future for themselves and their families. We have terrific Community Action agencies in Minnesota and I want thank all the agencies for their hard work. My good friend Clarence Hightower and his team do a tremendous job in Ramsey and Washington counties and I am deeply grateful for their work. I have seen firsthand the difference they are making for our children, families, and seniors. I know it is what all of you in this room do every day and again let me say thank you! Let me briefly give you my thoughts on why your work is more important today that ever before. I don’t want this to be a political speech, but something has happened in our country over the past six months with regard to political discourse that is profoundly disturbing and increasingly dangerous. Politics at times can be harsh, heated and even mean. But never, never, never should the political process in the world’s greatest, most diverse democracy be used to scapegoat people based on ethnicity, target people based on religion, demean people base on race, or promote violence against people of opposing views. We are one country united in our diversity and bound together by a shared commitment to common values. The diversity and values we treasure as a nation are reflected directly in the work of Community Action. Whether it is in a rural area, a suburb, or the largest American cities – the American people can only be successful if we respect the essential humanity and dignity in each of our neighbors – the neighbors we know and the neighbors we don’t know. I know that kind of respect is the essence of what you do every day. We should never expect less from a candidate for president. As you know, I am not talking about Republican or Democratic values. I am talking about American values – a fundamental code of civil conduct that must never be betrayed – especially by people seeking the most powerful and important job in the world. The American people need to hold elected officials and those seeking elected office accountable and to a high standard. You know this because we hold your agencies to high standards … and you meet and often exceed those standards. It is my hope that at the end of the day the American people – all of us – will make choices in November that reflect the highest and best of our spirit as Americans. But we’ve got some work to do! Thank you for your work. It is tremendously important. You have my full support and commitment to keep fighting for Community Action, the people you serve, and for you! Thank you!
03.16.2016	Congresswoman Betty McCollum is once again hosting her annual U.S. Service Academy Information Night on Tuesday, April 12th starting at 6:30 p.m. The information session for high school students (and their parents) interested in applying for a nomination to a U.S. Service Academy and will be held in the Mounds View High School - Auditorium, 1900 Lake Valentine Road, Arden Hills, MN 55112. The "information night" will include guest speakers representing the U.S. Air Force Academy, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy, U.S. Military Academy at West Point, and U.S. Naval Academy. Students, family members, and interested individuals will have the opportunity to learn about the programs, opportunities and life at the academies. In addition, they will hear about the application process for each academy as well as the Congressional nomination process. Academy materials, summer session and nomination forms will be available. This session is open to anyone interested in seeking a nomination to attend a U.S. Service Academy. Please note: Congresswoman McCollum can only nominate individuals from the Fourth Congressional District. Other Congressional offices have been invited to outline the nomination processes in their respective offices. Information will be available to determine the Congressional District where you reside, and how to contact other offices. For more information, please contact Connie Haddeland, Academy Coordinator, Congresswoman McCollum's office (651) 224-9191.
03.14.2016	Washington, DC (March 13, 2016) – Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement upon learning of the death of her former colleague in the U.S. House of Representatives Minneapolis DFL Congressman Martin O. Sabo. Today Minnesota and America has lost a good man and an exceptional public servant. It was my profound honor to serve with Martin Sabo as a colleague in the U.S. House. Martin was a quiet Norwegian, but a giant as a legislator and public servant in both the Minnesota Legislature and Congress. He was liberal, smart, and his values reflected the very best of Minnesota’s traditions and heritage. In Congress, Martin was reserved, but when he spoke the room went silent because everyone knew something worth hearing was about to be said. Martin’s astute ability to direct federal funds to key infrastructure projects, like light rail transit, transformed Minneapolis, positioning the Twin Cities for the 21st Century. And, his Chairmanship of the House Budget Committee in the 1990s set the country on a course that resulted in a federal budget surplus that was unfortunately squandered. I will always remember Martin as the kindest of souls and one of the most effective and wise public servants I’ve ever known. My prayers are with Martin, Sylvia, their entire family, and Martin’s many, many devoted members of his staff.
01.19.2016	Thank you. I’m delighted to be here today among those I count as my friends and allies. President Cladoosby (CLAD-is-bee) and Jackie Pata—you are my valued partners. You and the dedicated staff at NCAI are a tremendous resource for all Members of Congress in our work with tribal leaders. Mr. President—I am honored to be standing here today, reflecting on the message you have just shared with us. I could not agree with you more that we are in a moment of incredible progress and promise in Indian Country. When you speak of a new era of self-determination, I hear in that phrase not just a federal policy, but also the right of tribal leaders to guide your nations in a true partnership with our shared American nation. I really do believe that our government-to-government relationship is moving toward that goal. We are making some real progress on the federal side of that partnership.I am fortunate to serve in two roles where I can do my part to set new standards for partnership with and investment in Indian Country. As the co-chairs of the Congressional Native American Caucus, my Republican Co-Chair Tom Cole and I are building a broad a base of support in Congress for Indian Country. My second role is serving as the lead Democratic Member of the House Interior Appropriations Committee. I’m proud to say that my Republican Chairman Ken Calvert and I work very closely together on Native issues. We have been moving to increase funding for our trust and treaty obligations,building on the groundwork that was laid by our former Chairmen, including Mike Simpson and Jim Moran.We have worked on a bipartisan basis along with President Obama to substantially increase funding for the Bureau of Indian Affairs and Indian Health Service,even as budget caps have forced flat funding across many federal agencies. Our investments in the new Tiwahe (Tea-wah-hey) initiative will strengthen support for Native children and families. Greater funding for tribal courts will help your nations to build the capacity for the new authority, given under the Violence Against Women Act,to seek justice for victims in your communities. After more than a decade, we are finally completing the 2004 list of Bureau of Indian Education schools that are in desperate need of replacement. The fact that thousands of American Indian children are forced to learn in substandard BIE school buildings is unacceptable. So we are working on a plan to turn all BIE facilities into the safe, modern, and welcoming schools that your children-- and every American child-- deserve. In a move that supports both tribal self-governance and the federal obligation to provide direct services to tribal nations, BIA and IHS contract support costs are now fully funded and in their own separate accounts. Contract support costs are key to tribal self-governance, and they will no longer have to compete with funding for health care, education, or other treaty obligations. These investments are important successes, and they are only possible because your voices as tribal leaders,as members of your nations,and as advocates for your people, help to hold your federal partners accountable. It is your stories, your testimony, and your tireless advocacy for Indian Country that are the driving force behind all these achievements. We have made tremendous strides forward, and it is important to celebrate our progress. But we know there is much more that we need to do together. There continues to be health, education, and economic inequalities that the federal government is not adequately addressing. In many instances, current law fails to fully recognize the sovereignty of tribal governments. Furthermore, you know all too well that there continue to be active attacks on Indian Sovereignty, across issues like hunting and fishing rights,land into trust, and the Indian Child Welfare Act. And that’s why Members of Congress still need to continue to hear from you about tribal issues! With your energy and commitment, and a focused agenda for the coming year, we can work together to continue to make progress. There are several important steps we can take together to carry the momentum of this moment forward. First, every Member of Congress needs to be engaged, because we all vote on tribal issues! We need to make sure all Members of Congress have knowledge of Native issues, and your direct outreach is vitally important. Now, there are 567 federally recognized tribal nations and 535 Members of Congress. So, this year, adopt a Member! Every tribe, pick one! Share the voices and stories of your people. Educate their staff. And invite them out to visit your nations! From personal experience, there is just no substitute for visiting a tribal community, hearing directly from Native youth and families, and sitting down with tribal councils. When I traveled to the Navajo and Hopi Nations with my Republican colleagues, we saw the condition of the schools in Indian Country firsthand.By the end of that trip, we had brainstormed half a dozen new ways to fund BIE schools – because it was clear to us how urgent the needs were. The more Members of Congress know their constituents, the better they serve them. The more that Members of Congress know your communities, the better they will serve your communities. It was a visit by Candidate Obama to the Crow Nation that launched a relationship with Indian Country that has been the strongest and most productive in our nation’s history. Just consider all the achievements under the Obama Administration that started with that visit. It was President Obama who signed into law: The General Welfare Exclusion for Tribal Governments The Indian Health Care Improvement Act The Tribal Law and Order Act The SAVE Native Women provisions in the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization. That is the power of welcoming elected officials to your communities and educating them on your issues. The second step we can take is to strengthen the connection and mentorship among women leaders of your nations and women in Congress.I see more strong, Native women taking on leadership roles.It is very exciting for me to see my sisters standing up and sharing their unique perspectives and leading their communities along with their brothers. We all know that when women succeed, America succeeds. Well, we also know that when Native women lead, tribal nations succeed. Third, we must keep our focus on engaging Native youth and investing in their future. That’s why Generation Indigenous is so important. The youth of Indian Country are some of the most inspiring advocates I have met. When Native students visited our Committee to talk to us about the condition of their schools, it was some of the most powerful testimony we heard. Those students spoke about their peers and their families and their communities with a passion that affected every Member in that room. Even while facing harsh circumstances in their lives today, these youth also communicatedan amazing message of hope for what their livesand their communities could become.This is the generation that will carry America forward. So I want to support them to engage their elected officials, both tribally and federally, and ask us the tough questions. What are we doing to improve the safety of their families and communities? What is our plan is to create good schools, affordable higher education, and job opportunities for them? How we are going to help their generation face the challenges of climate change that they will inherit? Collectively, leaders in Indian Country and Congress must be held accountable and responsible for answering those questions. Today, I stand here as a Member of Congress, and I am asking you to hold us accountable. Hold us accountable for honoring your rights as sovereign nations, and for meeting our moral and legal trust obligations. For self-determination to be successful, it must be rooted in respect. Respect from nation-to-nation. Respect from federal officials to elected tribal officials. And respect among neighbors. Respect for your cultures, your values, your traditions, and for your solutions from your communities. You need a Congress and a President who are committed to the values of respect and partnership as well. You can count on me to be committed to that goal, because I want this country to be successful, as President Cladoosby said, for not just the next 7 generations, but for the next 70. If we instill in our children and in our public discourse the values of respect and collaboration, then the state of your nations and our nation, the United States of America, will be strong for generations to come.
01.08.2016	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) offered the Democratic Motion to Recommit on HR1927. The amendment would protect children who were victims of asbestos poisoning in schools from having their personal information exposed publicly. HR1927 limits the ability of victims of asbestos poisoning to seek justice, and threatens to expose their names, exposure history, financial information, and partial social security numbers. The McCollum amendment ensures that children who are victims would not be subject to that disclosure as they and their families pursue justice. “Our children deserve to be protected and parents should have the peace of mind that their children’s privacy is secure,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “As a mother, I cannot imagine the anguish of worrying about my child’s health as they suffer from asbestos-exposure. This bill would then add the burden for parents of worrying that their child’s private information had been posted on a public website. Without this amendment to the current bill, the House will be voting to deliver sensitive information about these children to identity thieves and sexual predators who will be able to exploit them. “Congress has a responsibility to find real solutions that help and support victims, especially children, of asbestos exposure and their families. HR 1927 falls far short of that standard.” Congresswoman McCollum has been a champion for mesothelioma throughout her time in Congress. Her predecessor representing Minnesota’s Fourth Congressional District, Congressman Bruce Vento, was diagnosed with mesothelioma and passed away in 2000. Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
01.05.2016	"I support President Obama doing everything within the power of his office to keep the American people safe by keeping guns out of the hands of those who shouldn’t have them. Our country is facing an epidemic of gun violence and something must be done. This Republican Congress is ignoring this crisis and forced the President to act. Taking all the steps necessary to combat gun violence demands Congressional action. Responsible gun owners and policy makers need to work together to put a bill on President Obama’s desk that will keep American families and communities safe from gun violence."
12.18.2015	Today, the House of Representatives voted on the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2016, a $1.1T bill to fund the day-to-day operations of the federal government and make critical investments in our national security and programs that serve the American people. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) released the following statement regarding her vote in support of this legislation: “The appropriations bill that was passed today is a significant political victory for Democrats in Congress. Republicans hold their largest Congressional majority in 66 years, but Democrats forced the most harmful conservative policy riders out of this bill. Attacks on women’s health, Syrian refugees, and our environment were stripped from this bill because Democrats stood united. This bill demonstrates that Democrats will stand united to defend our priorities and that Republicans are still unable to effectively govern. “In addition to pulling the worst of the worst policy riders from the bill, Democrats delivered increased investments for clean air, clean water, and our nation’s parks. This legislation also includes increased funding for anti-poverty efforts, medical research, and education. The new investments in this bill are at their highest possible level given our current budget situation. 150 Republicans followed the leadership of the Democratic minority and supported this new spending. “In spite of an overwhelming majority, Republicans were forced to abandon nearly all of their right-wing budget and policy priorities because Democrats kept the focus on governing responsibly and meeting the needs of the American people.”
12.17.2015	
12.09.2015	Mr. Speaker, we have an epidemic of gun violence in this country and Congress is doing nothing to end the killing. Right now, a person on the FBI’s Terrorists Watch List can go into a gun store and purchase a firearm legally. If a person on the Terrorist Watch List is too dangerous to buy a plane ticket, why are they allowed to purchase unlimited weapons and ammunition? Congress needs to act now to protect the American people, not guns. The Denying Firearms and Explosives to Dangerous Terrorists Act – a bipartisan bill - would prohibit the sale of firearms to people on the FBI’s Terrorist Watch List. Congress needs to take the most basic step we can by passing this bill to keep Americans safe from those who wish to do us harm. Mr. Speaker, I yield back.
12.07.2015	Good evening. Ambassador Sayavongs and Madam Sayavongs, I am honored to be with you tonight to celebrate sixty years of diplomatic relations between our countries, as well as the fortieth anniversary of the Lao PDR. My relationship with the people of Laos is very special and I strongly support strengthening our bilateral relations. My home is Minnesota. In my congressional district, I represent tens of thousands of Hmong and Lao-Americans who call Laos their ancestral home. They have family in Laos. Their traditions come from Laos. And, they care deeply about the future of Laos. More than anyone, I would like to acknowledge Mr. Chao Lee who has been on my congressional staff since 2001, for guiding me and advising me. He is with us tonight and I would like to thank him for his work on behalf of U.S.-Lao relations. Over my fifteen years serving in Congress I have taken many steps to strengthen this relationship. I was a supporter of normalized trade relations with Laos at a time when many people were fighting about the past rather than working to build a new future. I have always supported increased U.S. funding for UXO clean – a terrible legacy of war that harms the Lao people. And, in 2006, I had the pleasure of celebrating a very special Christmas in Vientiane during a visit to your beautiful country. Ambassador, I am committed to working with you to strengthen our future together. We will work as partners to address issues important to both our countries – economic development, increased trade, and access GSP, as well as improving human rights and human development to ensure that all Lao people, including women and girls, are free to live full, productive lives. Ambassador, I wish your government much success as Laos chairs ASEAN next year. I know the Obama Administration will work as a partner to ensure next year’s ASEAN Summit is a success and they will have my full support. Again, congratulations Mr. Ambassador on your country’s 40 years. Thank you.
12.03.2015	Yesterday’s massacre in San Bernardino, CA was the 355th mass shooting in the U.S. this year in which there were 4 or more victims. Over the past decade, 280,000 Americans have died due to gun violence. Gun violence in America has now become such a common, everyday occurrence that we know there will be another “breaking news” report of a shooting. We can only hope it is not our town, neighborhood, or family that is victimized. This is intolerable. I am done with the “politically correct” talk about “common sense” gun safety measures. It is time for the American people who value their safety from gun violence more than gun rights to stand up and say: “enough!” This Republican Congress is controlled by the NRA and they are only interested in protecting guns, not our families and communities. Innocent Americans will continue to be murdered in schools, churches and at work unless policy makers acknowledge the proliferation of guns is directly responsible for this epidemic of death and violence. We need a comprehensive public safety and public health approach to guns in America. Every legal firearm should be required to be registered and insured for liability. Ammunition sales should be regulated and limited. And, possessing or owning a firearm should require safety training and a license following a background check. How is the public safer when there are more regulations imposed on a person owning and driving an automobile than on an individual who owns an arsenal of guns? It is time to make America safe for all our families!
12.01.2015	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ayers for the kind introduction. I appreciate all that you and your staff are doing to keep Congress working while you are restoring our beautiful Capitol dome. Thank you for your leadership. I am thrilled to be here today! The American Architectural Foundation is playing an important role in driving an agenda that places cultural heritage, historic preservation, and architectural restoration at its forefront. I want to commend the vision and tremendous work of AAF President and CEO Ron Bogle, along with Mr. Thom Minner, Director of AAF’s Center for Design and Cultural Heritage. Ron and Thom are working with me to get Congress re-engaged as a partner in protecting and restoring our country’s historic treasures, treasures that unite communities and connect the past to the future. We are here today to honor a company for more than 50 years of accomplishments in historic preservation. Congratulations to Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates on receiving the 2015 Oculus award. WJE has a long record of contributing to projects across the U.S. and around the world. They have an office in Minnesota, but I was surprised to learn how often we worked at the same places. In the early 1970’s my first full-time job was in downtown St. Paul in the First National Bank building. Later, WJE worked on the First National Bank building. As a Minnesota state legislator, I spent eight years working in our beautiful Cass Gilbert designed state capitol building. WJE has worked on the capitol. And, one of my proudest accomplishments in Congress has been to help secure the funding for the renovation of St. Paul’s historic 1920’s era train station – Union Depot. The Depot’s $250 million restoration was completed in 2013 and, again, WJE worked on the project. Again, congratulations WJE on your tremendous record of success! At the beginning of this year I became the lead Democrat on the Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee. Each year our subcommittee produces a bill that provides over $30 billion to fund the Environmental Protection Agency, the Department of the Interior, the U.S. Forest Service, the National Endowments for the Arts and Humanities, the Smithsonian museums, and a number of other federal agencies. It is an important portfolio that funds hundreds of millions of acres of federal land, our national parks, tribal nations, and many of America’s most important historic sites. Over the past months my office has been engaged with federal stakeholders and AAF to review the federal government’s role in historic preservation. It is absolutely clear that without leadership from Congress and the Obama Administration our nation’s most vulnerable treasures are at risk of being lost to time, decay, or neglect. Unfortunately, Congress and the Administration are neglecting our nation’s treasures and this political apathy is costing the American people our cultural heritage. In the 2016 House and Senate Interior-Environment appropriations bills, approximately $61 million is allocated to the Historic Preservation Fund – primarily to support historic preservation offices in states, territories and tribal nations. This amount represents less than half of the $150 million authorized funding level and it is nearly $20 million less than was spent on historic preservation in 2010. This abandonment of historic preservation runs counter to the desires of our constituents. States, local communities, non-profits, the foundation community, and the private sector want the federal government to be a real partner. All across our country communities come together and identifying endangered historic and cultural assets that uniquely reflect local character and identity. It may be a historic building, a church, an archeological site, or a collection representing a moment in a community’s history that exemplifies a unique piece of our American history. And, communities are asking for help – both technical and financial – because they want their valued asset to be preserved, protected, and restored for the next generation. From 1999 to 2010 help was available. During those years, Congress provided modest, but critical funding for a program called Save America’s Treasures. $318 million in federal funding was appropriated for SAT grants over twelve years – that is less than $1 per American for a decade of investments. Those grants required a dollar-for-dollar match which leveraged over $400 million in additional funds. But, since 2011, Congress has not provided a single dollar to Save America’s Treasures. During SATs twelve years, more than 1,200 grants were awarded to restore 327 historic properties; 247 projects to restore collections, artifacts, artistic works, and documents were funded; and, 341 National Historic Landmarks were preserved. The treasures saved include: the restoration of Rosa Parks’ bus; restoring Little Rock’s Central High School; saving Ansel Adam’s prints, negatives and equipment; restoring an 18th century South Carolina plantation house; preserving the ruins at Colorado’s Mesa Verde National Park; and repairing and preserving the 1812 flag that flew over Fort McHenry that inspired the Star Spangle Banner. In my Minnesota congressional district, a $150,000 SAT grant matched by community contributions helped to fund a sprinkler system in the longest serving Czech-Slovak Hall in the U.S. build in 1879. This grant saved the Sokol Hall while other ethic halls have been lost to fire. On Saturday I’ll be attending an event at the Sokol Hall and it is a wonderful center of community activity. SAT has been an example of a public-private partnership that keeps history, culture, identity, and democracy vibrant and sustainable in towns and cities all across America. In my view SAT grants have acted as venture capital that sparks a community into action. It is an investment that inspires a community and donors to invest time, money, volunteer support – all to the benefit of the project. A good project with an SAT grant becomes a great project. Without that federal support many projects will never get done and national treasures are now being lost forever. I am passionate about restoring federal funding for SAT because I have a partner that shares my enthusiasm. That partner is the American Architectural Foundation. The National Park Service is SAT’s lead federal agency while AAF is SAT’s official non-profit partner. Other federal partners include the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Institute of Museum and Library Services. They all have valuable technical capacity to contribute – if federal funds are made available. In 2016 our nation will celebrate the 50th anniversary of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966. Next year also marks the 100th anniversary of our National Parks. As citizens who care about historic preservation, now is the time to get organized and energized. Working together, we need to get Congress investing once again in Saving America’s Treasures! I am thrilled to be working with AAF and other partners who share the vision that preserving America’s past helps to build America’s future. It has been wonderful being here with you. Thank you AAF for the invitation to be here today. Thank you. ####
12.01.2015	The AIDS epidemic continues to be the most pressing global health issues of our generation. 35 million people of all ages are living with HIV and AIDS today. On World AIDS Day, we remember those who have lost their lives, support those who continue to be affected by the virus, and renew our support for those working to cure it. The 2015 theme for World AIDS Day is “Getting to Zero.” This theme should serve as a reminder of the work that is being done by those pursuing both better methods of prevention and cures for the AIDS virus. As we continue fighting to find a cure, those who are leading that research deserve the support of elected officials here in Washington. Congress must continue to fund work to prevent the spread of this disease here and around the world today and lay the groundwork for a future with a cure for the AIDS virus.
11.23.2015	McCOLLUM of MINNESOTA: Each November, our nation recognizes the contributions of the First Americans during National Native American Heritage Month. Minnesota is home to eleven proud Ojibwe and Dakota nations, and those nations and their people are a vital part of our state’s heritage and our future. American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians are the source of America’s first participatory democracy and the population with the highest rates of service in our nation’s armed services. Their cultures and communities have endured despite centuries of violence, injustice, and discrimination. That legacy must never be buried or ignored, but I am committed to working with tribal leaders to move forward in a new era of respect and self-governance throughout Indian Country. The nation-to-nation relationship between our federal government and the 567 diverse, federally recognized tribal nations across the country has been strengthened tremendously under President Obama. I am proud to have worked with the President and my colleagues in Congress to pass major legislation to better meet our federal trust responsibility, strengthen tribal self-governance, and support Native families, like the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, the Tribal Law and Order Act, and the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act. Investing in the health, safety, and education of Native youth, in particular, must be a priority for Congress. Native American youth deserve the same opportunities to shape their futures and succeed as any other child in America. Earlier this month, tribal leaders and Native youth joined President Obama and senior officials from throughout his Administration at the 7th Annual White House Tribal Nations Conference. I was incredibly proud to see young people representing their Native nations and sitting with our President, sharing their priorities and discussing their future. Whether standing against racism in their schools, advocating for opportunities in their communities, or preserving their languages and cultures, the powerful voices and actions of Native youth are helping to build a brighter future for all young people in this country. Yet even with the progress we have made, tremendous work remains to realize that future. As sovereign nations, tribal governments play an essential role in serving the needs of their tribal members and defending the rights of their Nations. We must follow through on our federal responsibility to Native Americans with greater and more meaningful consultation and with legislative action that supports tribal self-determination, governmental parity, and significant investments throughout Indian Country. As we honor the heritage and resilience of our Native American brothers and sisters this month, we also commit to working together to build stronger communities and a stronger nation because when Indian Country is strong, America is strong.
11.19.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives will vote on H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) released the following statement regarding the bill: “In the aftermath of last week’s barbaric ISIL terrorist attack in Paris the Republican leadership of the U.S. House has decided that the best way to protect the security of the American people is to attack Syrian and Iraqi refugees. These are the innocent and vulnerable children, parents, and elders who are seeking protection from murderous armies, terrorist groups, and death squads. The perpetrators of the Paris attack were ISIL radicals with European citizenship, not refugees. As many as 3,000 European extremists have traveled to Syria to join the ranks of ISIL. In fact, the ISIL mastermind behind the Paris attack who was killed by French authorities, Abdelhamid Abaaoud, was a Belgian citizen, not a refugee from Syria or Iraq. Meanwhile, the U.S. visa waiver program allows unrestricted access to the U.S. from the European Union which is an open door for European extremists not on a watch list to enter our country. In my view, this is where the real reform and intelligence sharing must be strengthened. The American Security Against Foreign Enemies Act (H.R. 4038) is a Republican ploy that is cruel, callous, and a blatant display of xenophobia used to energize a political base that is motivated by a hatred of immigrants. This legislation is not designed to protect our national security interests, but rather will be used as a political weapon to attack Democrats who still believe our nation should be a safe haven for vulnerable people seeking freedom from persecution and the treat of death. I support resettling refugees in the U.S. and I have always welcomed them to Minnesota. The most modern identification technology and intelligence background checks need to be utilized in the resettlement security process. That means this Republican Congress must act responsibly and provide the necessary funding for such a comprehensive screening protocol. I support appropriating full funding for these strict protocols. ISIL is a global scourge that must be eradicated. Keeping America safe and eliminating ISIL will require intelligence, military, and counter-terrorism coordination between the U.S. and all allies. Unfortunately, H.R. 4038 is an transparent effort to scapegoat Syrian and Iraqi refugees who have suffered immeasurably, but clearly not enough for some of my colleagues. I reject this Republican bill as another example of driving a political agenda based on willful ignorance in the face of a serious terrorist threat.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
11.17.2015	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 511, The Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) voted in support of the bill and released the following statement: “In 1935, the National Labor Relations Act was passed to protect workers from harm and exploitation. This legislation allowed state and local units of government to develop their own separate labor standards. Tribal governments were not included in this bill because in 1935, tribal governments and their people were not included in much in the United States of America. In 1935, our nation was still too prejudicial towards Native Americans to ever include tribal governments in the National Labor Relations Act. Since then, we have grown as a nation and continue to make efforts to correct past inequities and injustices that Native Americans have suffered within our country. Today’s vote on HR 511, the Tribal Labor Sovereignty Act, merely corrects the inequality that existed in the National Labor Relations Act and ensures the same due respect for tribal governments that we grant to all other units of government. I have a long family and personal history of both union membership and union support. I will continue to be a strong advocate for the working families of Minnesota and this nation. My vote today simply affords tribal governments the equality and respect we give to all other units of government – something our nation failed to do in 1935.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
11.16.2015	"We stand united with the people of France as they comfort the victims and mourn those murdered in this barbaric act of terrorism. This brutal crime demands unified and coordinated action by all nations to eliminate extremists and those who promote or profit from this barbarism. The Paris attacks clearly demonstrates a significant escalation by the Islamic State to kill innocent people indiscriminately which puts our country risk. My sympathies are with the French people today but I am more focused than ever on the necessity of eliminating the scourge of ISIS and those who support these terrorists."
11.04.2015	“Oak Flat is a sacred site for the Apache people,” said Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), the co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. “A great injustice was done when this holy and protected place was given away to a foreign corporation in last year’s National Defense Authorization Act. Today, my colleagues, hundreds of Americans and I are speaking out against this injustice and voicing our opposition to policies that disrespect public lands and limit the religious liberty of Native American tribes.”
11.02.2015	Illegal poaching has hit a crisis point for many of the world’s most iconic species. Nearly 100 elephants are being slaughtered each day by ivory poachers. The black market sale of rhino horn and trafficking in infant gorillas is driving these species to the brink of extinction. H.R. 2494, the Global Anti-Poaching Act, takes critical steps to strengthen the punishments for poaching and wildlife tracking. The United States is a leader in the fight to protect endangered and threatened species around the world, and today’s legislation continues that legacy. This bill will ensure that the full strength of the U.S. criminal justice system can be brought to bear against those who seek to kill, trade or otherwise profit from the furs, pelts, skins or other body parts of protected species. The profits from this illegal trade are often used to fund terrorist or criminal activities, making the tougher enforcements in this bill an issue of national security as well. Additionally, this bill creates important partnerships with nations around the world to lend our country’s expertise in countering wildlife trafficking to local law enforcement officials on the ground. By engaging partners across national boundaries, coordinating resources, and sharing intelligence, this legislation would make anti-poaching efforts around the world more efficient and more effective. Poaching is a big business in the criminal world that threatens species across the globe. Today’s legislation steps up America’s efforts to ensure the protection of endangered species and crack down on this black market industry. I thank Mr. Royce, as the author of this bill and our founding co-chair on the International Conservation Caucus, for his leadership on this issue, and I urge my colleagues to vote yes on H.R. 2494.
10.28.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives reached an agreement on a deal that would provide relief from the need to raise our nation’s debt ceiling until 2017 and lays the groundwork for a budget agreement that lifts the caps on defense and discretionary spending. The bill also solves critical issues regarding Medicare Part B recipients and Social Security Disability Insurance. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement regarding that vote: “For months House Republicans have had us on a path to a government shut down and defaulting on our nation’s debt, potentially catastrophic events for middle class families and our nation’s economy. This bipartisan agreement circumvents the irresponsible and dangerous stranglehold imposed by Tea Party extremists, prevents chaos in the economy, and allows for stable investments in domestic programs and national defense. This is a good and responsible agreement which has my support. It also prevents a large, painful Medicare Part B premium increase. “Today’s passage of a budget deal, along with the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank yesterday, shows that the American people are well served when Republicans and Democrats work through their differences and achieve compromise. The American people are the winners today with this bipartisan agreement.”
10.27.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted on a discharge petition to reopen our nation’s Export-Import Bank. Republicans obstructed the funding for this critical program which invests in American businesses, returns money to our treasury each year and is supported by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Business Roundtable and the National Association of Manufacturers. House Democrats forced this vote through the use of a discharge petition and were joined by some Republican members to pass this critical legislation. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) released the following statement regarding the vote: “For months now, House Republicans have tried to kill the Export-Import Bank, endangering businesses, jobs, and U.S. competitiveness. Today, Democrats delivered the votes to protect American workers and businesses from an extreme ideology. This was a defeat for Republicans and a real victory for middle-class families and a strong U.S. economy.”
10.23.2015	Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement: "Once again this morning, Republicans are attempting to repeal parts of the Affordable Care Act. This is their 61st attempt to undermine a law which has helped millions of Americans access health care coverage. Congress has work to do to keep our country running. Immediate action is required to ensure that we have the funds necessary to make investments in critical transportation infrastructure and that our nation does not default on its financial obligations. Wasting time on partisan, politically motivated legislation that risks access to critical health care services for millions of Americans is reprehensible. Congress should stop playing these political games and do the work the American people sent us here to do."
10.23.2015	Washington, DC – After seventeen months of investigation, more than $4.6 million in taxpayer funds expended, and yesterday’s grueling 11 hour interrogation of former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, Congresswomen Betty McCollum (D-MN) is calling for the immediate disbanding of the U.S. House of Representative’s Select Committee on Benghazi. On September 11, 2012, terrorists in Benghazi, Libya murdered four Americans – Sean Smith, Tyrone Woods, Glen Doherty and U.S. Ambassador to Libya, Christopher Stevens. This terrorist attack needed to be investigated to ensure such a tragedy did not happen again. It was investigated by seven congressional committees as well as the State Department. It is now clear based on the words of House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) that the Benghazi Select Committee was created to conduct a partisan investigation. Rep. Richard Hanna (R-NY) was not lying when he said, “there was a big part of this investigation that was designed to go after people and an individual, Hillary Clinton.” Rep. McCollum issued the following statement: “The Benghazi Committee should be shutdown today – immediately – with not one more taxpayer dollar expended to finance a government funded, politically motivated attack on Secretary Clinton. Yesterday’s eleven hour grilling of Mrs. Clinton was an abuse of power. It was an ugly, shameful display of a House committee not looking for answers to prevent a future tragedy, but seeking sound bites to attack a candidate for president.” “The American people witnessed Hillary Clinton responding to her inquisitors with grace, strength, and compassion for the four courageous Americans who lost their lives in Benghazi. She displayed an impressive level of leadership under the most intense questioning. The manner in which Mrs. Clinton’s conducted herself was in stark contrast to the blatantly partisan attacks and bullying by the Republican members of the committee.” “Now that the Republicans have had their eleven hours to attack the former Secretary of State and Democratic candidate for president, I urge Speaker Boehner, before he resigns, to disband the Benghazi Select Committee, stop wasting taxpayer dollars, and end this blatant abuse of power.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
10.23.2015	Ms. McCOLLUM of Minnesota: Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016. As a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense, I take issue with the irresponsible manner in which this authorization approaches funding of our National Defense. This bill uses the Overseas Contingency Operations fund to avoid congressionally mandated budget caps for fiscal year 2016—an approach that fails to provide the appropriate budget and funding structure that enables the Department of Defense to operate in the most effective and efficient manner over both the short-term and long-term planning horizons. This is Congress’ most important role. We need to do this right. In addition, this Conference Report prevents the responsible transfer of detainees from Guantanamo Bay and continues the existence of a detention facility which serves as propaganda for extremists and undermines our moral standing in the world. Many of the detainees who remain were cleared for transfer nearly six years ago by the Guantanamo Review Task Force—an interagency effort that included the Departments of Defense, Justice, State, and Homeland Security, as well as the Director of National Intelligence. The transfer restrictions interfere with the administration’s executive role in responsibly closing this facility, wasting valuable resources, and making us less safe. This facility needs to be closed. H.R. 1735 fails to heed the expert advice and request of numerous senior leaders in the Department of Defense, Department of the Air Force, and Department of the Army, who all repeatedly testified regarding the problem of sustaining excess facilities. I understand that many of my colleagues are concerned about potentially losing a military base in their district; however, we should not force the Defense Department to hold onto excess infrastructure and assets that are of diminishing military value. The best way to address this problem is to authorize a Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) and ensure our military bases are operating in the smartest, most efficient and effective manner. This bill prevents that from happening. I recognize that passing the NDAA is described as a tradition, but tradition is an inadequate reason to support legislation that undermines the ability of our Defense leaders to properly manage the largest portion of our federal budget—the portion responsible for National Security—and effectively undermines the health and safety of the women and men who carry out that mission. Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join me in opposing the Conference Report to Accompany H.R. 1735 – National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016
10.22.2015	Yesterday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum joined leaders from federal agencies and the business community to celebrate the 6th anniversary of the “Canoemobile” program run by Minnesota non-profit Wilderness Inquiry. The Canoemobile program travels across the country with several large, custom-made canoes and hosts programming to expose inner-city youth to outdoor recreation and conservation. Yesterday’s event featured the unveiling of a new Wilderness Inquiry canoe named after former Minnesota Congressman Bruce Vento in honor of his commitment to environmental protection and outdoor recreation. “This event was a wonderful celebration of the success that can be found when public, private and non-profit partners work together to promote conservation and environmental stewardship,” said Congresswoman Betty McCollum. “I am so proud of Wilderness Inquiry and it was a pleasure to see them bring our Minnesota values of conservation and love of the great outdoors to children in Washington, DC. My friend and predecessor, the late Congressman Bruce Vento, would have loved seeing all of those leaders come together on a beautiful fall day to share the outdoors with 200 local children. Bruce dedicated his life and his public service to protecting our natural resources and environment, and seeing him honored here today was a fitting tribute.” The Canoemobile program is made possible thanks to cooperation between partners with a stake in conservation from across the public and private sectors. The event was hosted at the Thompson Boathouse along Washington, DC’s Georgetown waterfront, a National Park Serve facility. Volunteers from both the National Park Service and RBC Wealth Management US staffed the event and helped get over 200 young children from the Washington, DC area out onto the Potomac River in canoes. RBC Wealth Management US CEO John Taft was in attendance to celebrate his company’s partnership with the Canoemobile program as a part of their commitment to promoting clean water. Dan Ashe, the Director of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, was also in attendance. In addition to celebrating the 6th anniversary of the Canoemobile program, the event featured the dedication of a new Canoe in Wilderness Inquiry’s fleet. The new canoe will be named after the late Bruce Vento, the former representative of Minnesota’s Fourth District in U.S. Congress. Representative Vento’s wife Sue was in attendance at the event, and spoke about her husband’s love of the outdoors, his commitment to conservation and the passion he had for sharing those interests with children. Photos from the event can be viewed here. Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
10.09.2015	Washington, DC – This week, a bipartisan team introduced the Reach Every Mother and Child Act, a bold, bipartisan legislative initiative to accelerate the reduction of preventable maternal, newborn and childhood deaths worldwide. The measure was introduced by Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA), Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Congressman Michael McCaul (R-TX) . “Every day, 16,000 children die tragic, preventable deaths before they reach the age of 5,” said Congressman Reichert, the Co-Chair of the Global Health Caucus. “While infant mortality rates have decreased significantly over the past 25 years with the United States’ leadership, these numbers are still heart breaking and unacceptable. With better access to care and services for mothers and children, the Reach Act will not only help families rise out of poverty, but will further efforts to decrease infant mortality, and foster stability and security around the world.” "Improving access to quality health services for mothers, children and newborns around the world must be a United States priority. The Reach Act builds on the remarkable progress the United States has already made to ensure more mothers survive child birth and that more children live to celebrate their 5th birthday,” said Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Co-Chair of the Global Health Caucus. “By implementing new and cost-effective strategies, better using technology, and coordinating resources, we can reach even more families and achieve our shared global goal of ending preventable maternal and child deaths within a generation. I am pleased to partner with Rep. Dave Reichert and Rep. Barbara Lee on this critical issue." “In the past fifteen years, the international community has halved the maternal and child mortality rate. This stands as a testament to the power of global cooperation and international development,” said Congresswoman Barbara Lee, a member of the international assistance funding subcommittee and one of the Congressional representatives to the 70th UN General Assembly. “Yet, our work is far from over. Each year, more than 1 million babies die on their very first day of life, many from preventable causes. We can and must do more to stop these unnecessary deaths. The Reach Act will save lives while creating a better world for millions.” “It is astonishing to see how much progress has been made thus far in reducing the number of preventable deaths in some of the world’s most impoverished countries. However, there is still much work that needs to be done,” said Congressman Michael McCaul. “I am proud to be the cosponsor of legislation that will accelerate current efforts to eliminate maternal and child deaths within a generation. By developing a strategic, evidence-based approach that effectively utilizes resources, this bill will help save the lives of millions.” This legislation has already won the support of more than 20 non-governmental organizations (NGO) including RESULTS, World Vision and Save the Children Action Network. “The introduction of the Reach Act today is an important step toward a goal we now know is possible: the end of preventable child and maternal deaths,” said Dr. Joanne Carter, Executive Director of RESULTS. “Last year USAID embraced a set of reforms so that they can support countries to save even more lives, and with congressional support and oversight, they can go even further. We know that this ambitious goal is possible. With the Reach Act, Congress can help make it a reality.” “The Reach Every Mother and Child Act provides a critical opportunity for the US Government to strengthen its commitment in serving the global poor,” added World Vision CEO Rich Stearns. “This legislation will ensure that proven cost-effective and life-saving health interventions will be scaled up in the developing world, in order to end preventable maternal and child deaths in our lifetime.” “We can end preventable maternal, newborn and child deaths within a generation, and this bill will help us do it,” said Save the Children Action Network President Mark Shriver. “I would like to thank Representatives Reichert, Lee, McCaul and McCollum for their leadership and Senators Susan Collins and Chris Coons for introducing a similar bill in the Senate. Every day, 16,000 children under the age of 5 die from preventable causes, like pneumonia and diarrhea. The Reach Act can change this sobering fact by investing in and scaling up proven and inexpensive solutions that save millions of lives.” Background: According to experts, nearly 300,000 women die annually from pregnancy and childbirth complications. Furthermore, malnutrition contributes to approximately 45 percent of deaths among children under the age of five, totaling more than 3 million mostly preventable deaths each year. The Reach Act is the House companion bill to the Reach Every Mother and Child Act (S. 1911) introduced by Senators Susan Collins (R-ME) and Christopher Coons (D-DE.) The legislation would: • Coordinate U.S. government strategy to end preventable maternal, newborn, and childhood deaths globally within a generation; • Require targets to be set, tracked, and reported; • Focus on the poorest and most vulnerable populations while recognizing the unique needs within different countries and communities; • Improve coordination amongst agencies and foreign governments, civil society, and international organizations; • Encourage innovative, public-private financing mechanisms; and • Accelerate partner country progress toward self-sustainability. Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
10.09.2015	
10.01.2015	
08.03.2015	Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement regarding President Obama’s release of the Clean Power Plan: “Today, President Obama announced the Clean Power Plan, a historic effort to reduce carbon pollution. This plan confronts the challenge of climate change and the very clear threat it is posing to our country’s national security, public health, and economy. “The President’s plan also sets forth ambitious goals for the production of renewable energy and the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions – allowing states flexibility in how they meet those standards. Under the Clean Power Plan the EPA will work with states to reduce carbon pollution by 32% by the year 2030. Meeting the goal of reducing power plant emissions is the equivalent of removing 166 million cars from our roads. “Minnesota has always made the production of clean power and the reduction of carbon pollution a priority. Today’s action from the Obama Administration creates national standards along the same lines as those that we have had here in Minnesota for years. Under the new rule, our state will have the flexibility to continue our tradition of innovation in the clean power sector. “I applaud President Obama and EPA Administrator Gina McCarthy for their vision and commitment to tackling the challenges of carbon emissions and climate change head on. This plan will certainly be attacked – wrongly – by polluters and the politicians who support them. The fact is the standards set forth in this rule will strengthen our economy, reduce pollution, and help us to create healthier air for America’s children for generations to come.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
07.29.2015	Washington, DC – This morning, news broke of a Minnesota dentist, Walter Palmer, accused of paying tens of thousands of dollars to poach a protected lion while touring Zimbabwe. This well-known lion, named Cecil by local residents, was lured from a protected Zimbabwean National Park, hunted with a bow and arrow, skinned and beheaded. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service proposed that the African Lion be listed as a protected species under the Endangered Species Act. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “To bait and kill a threatened animal, like this African lion, for sport cannot be called hunting, but rather a disgraceful display of callous cruelty. For those of us committed to ending poaching of iconic African species I strongly believe the U.S. Attorneys’ Office and U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service should investigate whether U.S. laws were violated related to conspiracy, bribery of foreign officials, and the illegal hunting of a protected species or animal. I will also continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to pursue laws that protect iconic, threatened and endangered animals around the world from barbaric ‘sport hunting’ at the hands of ultra-wealthy elites.” Congresswoman McCollum is the co-chair of the International Congressional Conservation Caucus, the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
07.25.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the Obama Administration announced new regulations for the sale of items containing ivory. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response to the announcement: “The poaching of African Elephants has reached a level of crisis and this majestic and beloved species is facing extinction. The driving force behind poaching is the demand for ivory in foreign markets. The United States is one of the largest markets for illegal ivory in the world, and I applaud the step the President took today to stop our role in the demise of the African Elephant. The draft rule that President Obama and Interior Secretary Jewell released today regulating the sale of items containing ivory will reign in the market for illegal ivory in the United States. By requiring that sellers verify the legality of their ivory before it can be sold, we can be sure that American markets are not contributing to the extinction of the African Elephant. The rule also contains reasonable concessions for the sale of genuine antiques, items containing minimal amounts of ivory, and the use of performance instruments. As nearly 96 African Elephants per day are being killed across the continent, it is imperative that countries around the world do what they can to protect this beautiful species. Today’s rule is a significant step, and a critical part of our larger law enforcement strategy to ensure that the United States is a leader in ending the poaching of African Elephants and the illegal trade of ivory.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
07.14.2015	(Washington, DC) - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response to the announcement of a diplomatic deal between the United States, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, China, Russia, and Iran to limit Iran’s ability to develop nuclear weapon. “Denying Iran the ability to continue to develop a nuclear weapon with this verifiable agreement is a diplomatic triumph which enhances U.S. and global security. This agreement is the only alternative to an escalating, dangerous nuclear arms race that threatens the security of the American people.” “Unfortunately, critics in Congress, along with Republican presidential candidates, have started down the dangerous path of working to undermine this agreement to score partisan political points. If allowed to succeed, these hardliners threaten our national security by increasing the probability that Iran will obtain a nuclear weapon.” “With regard to Israel, the U.S. has an unshakable strategic commitment to the security of the Israeli people. This agreement does nothing to diminish Israel’s security. In fact, this agreement guarantees that Israel remains the only power with nuclear weapons in the Middle East. Prime Minister Netanyahu’s ceaseless effort to undermine President Obama and an important national security priority only harms the U.S.-Israeli partnership.” “I applaud President Obama, Secretary Kerry, and Secretary Moniz for their tireless commitment to advancing America’s national security through diplomatic engagement. While there certainly remain issues beyond nuclear non-proliferation, such as the detention of innocent American citizens and on-going support for terrorist organizations, that requires action by Iran if improved diplomatic relations with the U.S. are to be achieved, this nuclear agreement has my support. If Congress decides to disapprove of the agreement I will vote to sustain President Obama’s veto.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
07.09.2015	Washington, DC – This afternoon, the FY16 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill was pulled from the floor just hours before it was scheduled for a vote. Last night, the bill was amended by Republican leadership to include a provision that would allow the sale and display of the Confederate battle flag in National Parks. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “The Interior and Environment Appropriations bill speaks to our priorities as a nation. This bill is meant to fund the protection of some of our nation’s best ideas, including critical investments in our public health, preservation of our public lands, and a strong trust relationship with Native Americans. It is supposed to fund efforts to ensure that Americans are able to breathe clean air and have access to drinkable water, and to confront the challenges of a changing climate. The Republican Interior Appropriations bill that was pulled from the floor today does none of those things. It is a toxic bill – a policy superfund. “In a bill that is filled with giveaways to polluters and special interests who profit by exploiting our natural resources and public lands, Republicans betrayed our national values of justice and respect by invoking their support for the Confederate battle flag. After many hours of debate over three days, the very last amendment Republicans tried to add to this bill would have allowed the Confederate battle flag to be flown at our National Parks. I was surprised and disappointed that Republican Leadership offered this amendment to secure votes from their own Members to pass what is already a bad bill. “Today, a united Democratic caucus committed to rejecting hate and racism forced the Republican Leadership to pull their pro-pollution bill, along with their pro-Confederate battle flag amendment, from the House floor. This was a victory for all Americans who strive for a better, stronger, and more just America, and for the Democratic Representatives who stand with them.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ####
07.08.2015	Congresswoman Betty McCollum, the lead Democrat of the House Interior-Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, issued the following statement responding to the Republican leadership’s last minute amendment offered tonight to the FY2016 funding bill protecting the Confederate flag’s status in National Park Service cemeteries and concessions. The GOP amendment would reverse three amendments approved by the House yesterday on voice votes banning the Confederate flag from being displayed in cemeteries and sold in concessions under the control of the National Park Service. “The Confederate flag is a symbol of slavery, racism, and hate that should never be celebrated or sold in our National Parks. For House Republicans it appears the cost of getting the votes to pass this terrible Interior-Environment Appropriations bill is to literally wrap themselves in this banner of racism. This bill is already a polluters dream, now the majority wants to make the bill truly toxic with this amendment.” ###
07.08.2015	Washington, DC – This morning, the United States District Court Eastern District of Virginia upheld the cancellation of the Washington NFL franchise’s trademark for their team name. Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement: “In our society, words and symbols matter. There are images in our culture that evoke strong memories of our history, which can sometimes be painful and ugly. Our federal government should not protect trademarks for businesses that use racist words and symbols for profit. “The name of the Washington football team is a dictionary defined racial slur. It is a hurtful and ugly word which diminishes and disrespects Native American people. “Today’s court decision is a good step towards ensuring that this hateful slur is removed from professional football. I applaud the court’s decision and I will continue to stand with all of the dedicated activists in the Native American community and their allies who have worked on this issue. The work is not done – the mascot must change.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
06.23.2015	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released a letter that she and 18 of her congressional colleagues sent to Secretary of State John Kerry urging the United States to prioritize the human rights of Palestinian children living in the Occupied West Bank in the bilateral relationship with the Government of Israel. The letter specifically addresses Israel’s on-going military detention of Palestinian children in which they are arrested, interrogated, held incommunicado, and frequently physically abused. A 2013 report by UNICEF called “Children in Israeli Military Detention” (along with a subsequent 2015 report) highlights the fact that during the previous decade more than 7,000 Palestinian children ages 12 to 17 have been subject to military detention and abuse that violates international human rights standards. Members of Congress signing the letter to Secretary Kerry indicated that while Israel’s security interests are a national security priority of the United States, respecting and defending the rights of children is a fundamental American value that cannot be ignored. “Israel’s military detention of Palestinian children is an indefensible abuse of human rights. I hope this letter results in State Department pressure on the Government of Israel to end this systemic abuse immediately,” said McCollum. “Palestinian children should be treated exactly the same as Israeli or American children, without the fear that one day soldiers will arrest them, beat them, and lock them away in prison.” The following members of Congress joined Rep. McCollum in signing the letter. A copy of the letter is attached. A copy of the UNICEF report “Children in Israeli Military Detention” can be found here. Rep. Danny Davis (D-IL) Rep. Andre Carson (D-IN) Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME) Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR) Rep. John Conyers (D-MI) Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA) Rep. Raul Grijalva (D-AZ) Rep. Anna Eshoo (D-CA) Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) Rep. Jim McDermott (D-WA) Rep. Keith Ellison (D-MN) Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL) Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) Rep. Don Beyer (D-VA) Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (D-TX) Rep. Jim McGovern (D-MA) Rep. Hank Johnson (D-GA) ####
06.15.2015	"Tomorrow, the House Appropriations Committee will mark up the $30.17 billion FY16 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. I am the Ranking Member on the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, which provides funding for our National Parks, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Environmental Protection Agency and various arts and humanities programs. The bill before the committee will be impossible for me to support. It has some minor increases in funding for investments in our National Parks and for schools and hospitals in Indian Country – which I was glad to see. However, all of these increases are paid for by drastic cuts to environmental protections – most notably programs to ensure that Americans have access to clean water, including drinking water. "The cuts in this bill to the Environmental Protection Agency amount to a war on clean water. Families in California are in the midst of a drought and communities in North Carolina and West Virginia are just a few months removed from seeing their water contaminated by pollution. The need to protect access to clean water systems in this country is as pressing as ever. This bill slashes more than $580 million in funding from the EPA’s Clean Water and Safe Drinking Water state revolving loan funds– programs that have garnered praise for their effectiveness from former Republican Governors like Sarah Palin and Jeb Bush. Since 1989, Minnesota has received more than $1B in funding from these programs to help communities build storm water and drinking water infrastructure systems. The bill also has riders that further limit the EPA’s ability to enforce current water protections and it trims funding for Brownfield restoration and economic development programs. "This bill does include some long-overdue investments in critical areas. We are making strides forward on funding for Native American schools and hospitals which have been woefully underfunded. The National Parks Service received some of the funding necessary to proceed on repairs and operations coinciding with their centennial next year, but the bill still places them $381 million below the President’s request. A small increase to the Bureau of Land Management would also allow them to continue their good work. "However, the deep cuts to clean water funding are simply an unacceptable way to pay for these increases. Clean drinking water is an essential human need. If people do not have access to clean drinking water, our other investments will not have the same impact. An increase in funding for our parks means very little if the water that flows through them is polluted. The public health gains from a new hospital for a tribal nation are mitigated if their water supply is contaminated. This is simply not a trade I am willing to make. "I hope that we are able to improve this bill during tomorrow’s markup process. We must find a way to pay for these long overdue investments that does not jeopardize public health."
06.10.2015	Washington, DC – This morning, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee held a markup of the FY16 funding bill put forth by Chairmen Ken Calvert (R-CA). Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) is the ranking Democratic member on the subcommittee and issued the following opening statement (as prepared for delivery). “Thank you Mr. Chairman. I appreciate the cooperation exhibited by you and the subcommittee staff as we have attempted to work through the many issues facing the subcommittee in what is yet another difficult budget year. You are to be commended for chairing 14 budget hearings this year where we received testimony from nearly 150 witnesses. We heard repeatedly from these witnesses about the important work our bill is supposed to fund— from conserving our natural and historical resources to protecting the air and water every American breaths and drinks. Yet the challenges grow and the threats from invasive species, drought, wild fires, and climate change only become more complex and more expensive. Some of our most moving testimony was from our friends in the Native American community, who documented the unmet needs that still exist and made a compelling case for this subcommittee to build upon its past work to further the social and economic well-being of Native Americans, especially in the area of Indian Education. The agency heads, tribal councilmembers, and nonprofit leaders that testified here reminded us all of the tremendous value of the federal investments we make, and of the responsibilities we have to protect our public health, our public lands, and the public good. This committee is well aware of the real and growing needs that exist across the agencies and programs funded by this subcommittee. Yet, instead of responsibly addressing those needs on behalf of the American people, this bill once again forces agencies to do more with less –an unrealistic and increasingly impossible task. Clearly the current budget caps have put a stranglehold on the appropriations process that is dangerously eroding our ability to meet our responsibilities to the American people. This subcommittee’s 302(b) allocation for FY16 is $246 million dollars below the FY 2015 enacted level. A quarter of a billion dollar cut! When this cut is added to the cuts of the past 5 years, it puts this bill more than $2 BILLION below our 2010 appropriated level. We are going backwards and the consequences will be felt in communities all across the country. The subcommittee funding level is unfortunate because my working relationship with you, Mr. Chairman, has been first rate. And while I recognize the difficulties you faced in crafting this bill, I cannot support the bill as it now stands. As a result of the majority’s budget decisions, many agencies and programs are either flat-funded or receive cuts. The most significant cut is again to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) which would receive $718 million less that the FY 2015 enacted level, a 9% cut. This on top of the nearly 20% cut the agency has received over the past four years. It appears that any increases in this bill have come at the expense of the programs and responsibilities of the EPA and the public health of the American people. And while the bill includes $3.5 billion, which is 12% of the subcommittee’s allocation, for wildland fire, the majority has failed to do anything to contain the growing burden these costs have put on the agencies and programs funded in this bill. We know the answer to this crisis. Many of us are cosponsors of Mr. Simpson’s bill – H.R. 167 – to treat a portion of fire costs as the disaster they are. I am pleased with the bipartisan commitment we have had to the funding of Native American programs and appreciate the funding increases that were provided. But even here my enthusiasm is tempered. Even though the recommended level for Native American programs is $330 million above the FY 2015 enacted level, it is $474 million less than the Administration requested. A request that certainly was not extravagant and was well documented by the testimony we received. Finally, I must express my concern and disappointment with the two dozen legislative riders and funding limitations included in the bill. Many of these have been attempted year after year, but six riders are new this year. These provisions do not belong in our bill. They undermine important environmental laws,endanger public health and safety, and deny that climate change is having an impact on our planet. Mr. Chairman, Congress needs to get serious about fixing the Budget Control Act’s irresponsible caps. I hope appropriators – Democrats and Republicans – can stand united in leading the effort to end sequestration. We need a real budget agreement. The sooner that happens the sooner this subcommittee can develop a bill that will earn bipartisan support and be signed by the President. But as it stands now, the numbers and the riders in this Interior and Environment bill are not workable or sustainable. We’ve got more work to do to get this right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ### Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
06.09.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee released their draft bill for FY2016. Included in the legislation is a rider which would require the Secretary of the Interior to delist gray wolves in Wyoming, Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan from the list of endangered species. This rider, Section 121 of the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill, provides for the delisting of gray wolves and would prohibit that rule from being subjected to future judicial review. Last year, a federal judge ordered that gray wolves in Wyoming and the Great Lakes region be returned to the list of endangered species. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), the ranking Democratic member of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee, released the following statement regarding the delisting of gray wolves. “This rider is a tremendous overreach that would interfere in the federal listing of endangered species. Our committee’s role is to appropriate the necessary funds to allow the expert staff of scientists and professionals to do their jobs working to protect endangered species. This bill should not be mandating which species do or do not require protection. “The judicial branch exists to provide oversight and review of our nation’s laws, and the idea that this Republican Appropriations bill would try to circumvent that constitutionally critical process is wrong. “If the committee would like to see greater attention paid to the wolf population in the Great Lakes region, it should reconsider this bill’s proposed 50% cut to the Fish and Wildlife Service’s listing program for determining which species need protection. This is one of many attacks on the Endangered Species Act within this bill – all of which threaten the recovery and survival of important species in our country. “I will work throughout the committee process to see this provision removed and to restore funding for the important work that the Fish and Wildlife Service does to protect our endangered species.” The relevant section of the bill can be found on page 60 of the Interior and Environment Appropriations bill here. ### Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
06.02.2015	
05.13.2015	Congresswoman Betty McCollum Statement for the Record Honoring the Life and Service of Mendota Heights Officer Scott Patrick May 13, 2015 Ms. McCollum: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to the men and women serving this nation as law enforcement officers who have given their lives in the line of duty. This week is Police Week where we reflect upon the service and sacrifice of the thousands of women and men who keep our communities safe and put their lives on the line on our behalf. For their courage, commitment and bravery, these women and men have my greatest respect. Last year, the Twin Cities East Metro lost an officer in the line of duty when Officer Scott Patrick was gunned down in the line of duty during a traffic stop in St. Paul. Whenever an act of violence this senseless and tragic takes place, it shakes a community deeply. Officer Patrick’s loss is still felt each day by his family and his fellow officers on the Mendota Heights Police force. This week we join them in mourning the loss of their loved one and friend. On Wednesday, Officer Scott’s name will be added to the National Law Enforcement Officer’s Memorial Wall in Washington, DC. The work that police officers and law enforcement officials do to keep our communities safe is often thankless and dangerous. As a society, we place an enormous amount of trust in those officers and they play a critical role in shaping the world we live in. Those who serve in law enforcement have my greatest respect for the work that they do to live up to and earn that trust in their communities. As a member of Congress, one of my jobs is to make sure police officers have the tools they need to keep their communities safe while returning home to their families safely each night. Whether this means personal safety protection, body cameras or computer systems that they need we must consider doing more for law enforcement agencies. I am proud to say that I have been a champion for more effective communication between law enforcement officers and first responders throughout my time in Congress and I look forward to continuing that partnership with the police community. ­ This week, I ask my colleagues to join me in honoring police week by remembering those officers who have given their lives in service of their communities.
04.28.2015	
04.17.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) introduced H.R. 1796 the National Park and Wilderness Water Protection Act. Following that introduction, environmental leaders from Minnesota and around the nation praised the bill. “I received a petition with over 65,000 signatures along with hundreds of calls from Minnesotans asking me to protect Voyageurs National Park and the Boundary Waters Canoe Area,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “I am proud to represent the voices of my constituents on this issue here in Congress and to have the support of environmental leaders from around the country. Protecting these great national treasures is an important priority for Minnesotans and Americans from across the country.” Environmental advocacy groups at both the state and national level have been quick to praise the National Park and Wilderness Water Protection Act. Statements of support from those groups are below: "The Sierra Club applauds Rep. Betty McCollum for introducing the National Park and Wilderness Water Protection Act. This legislation will help ensure that the pristine waters and lands of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and Voyageurs National Park are protected from the threat of toxic sulfide mining, which has never been done safely and threatens communities and waters near the BWCA, Lake Superior, and across the Arrowhead Region. We urge Congress to pass this bill, to make sure that these national treasures are preserved for individuals and families today, and for future generations." - Margaret Levin, State Director, Sierra Club North Star Chapter “Voyageurs National Park and the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness are outdoor gems—places so valuable to wildlife, people, and our outdoor heritage that we cannot allow environmentally destructive practices to occur there. That’s why the National Wildlife Federation support the National Park and Wilderness Water Protection Act. The bill will help protect these critically important wilderness areas and parks from mining so that they can continue to provide a home for fish and wildlife as well as a place of enjoyment for hikers, campers, anglers, bird-watchers, and other outdoor recreation enthusiasts. We thank U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum for her leadership on this important issue and look forward to working with public officials to pass this bill.” – National Wildlife Federation President and CEO Collin O'Mara "Sulfide-ore copper mining has the potential to permanently ruin one of the most treasured river and wetland habitats in the country for future paddlers, fishermen, and outdoor enthusiasts. Our concern for the impacts of this mining on the Boundary Waters region led to its inclusion on our 2013 list of America's Most Endangered Rivers. Some places are too special to turn into an industrial zone. We appreciate the leadership of Representative McCollum and her introduction of National Park and Wilderness Waters Protection Act in protecting this pristine wilderness from harmful mining.” - Brendan Mysliwiec, Associate Director, Government Relations, American Rivers “We support Congresswoman McCollum’s National Park and Wilderness Water Protection Act. Nearly 250,000 visitors to Voyageurs National Park each year rely on clean water for boating, fishing, and wildlife-watching. However, proposed sulfide mining upstream threatens the park’s waters, people and wildlife and the businesses that rely on park visitors. With contaminates like mercury already impairing park waters and requiring fish advisories, we cannot allow mining to take place upstream until we better understand the full environmental impacts it will have on our treasured places. As the National Park System’s 100th anniversary approaches, we should work together to make sure our parks thrive in their second century and this legislation will help us do that.” - Christine Goepfert, Upper Midwest Program Manager for the National Parks Conservation Association “The Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness is one of our nation’s most popular wilderness areas and is a world-class destination for canoeing, fishing and camping. We applaud Congresswoman McCollum for her leadership and work to protect this incredible place and ensure future generations have the opportunity to enjoy its natural wonders.” - Jeremy Garncarz, Senior Director at The Wilderness Society ““This Act is crucial to protecting large portions of the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness and Voyageurs National Park from acid mine drainage. Sulfide-ore copper mining would do more harm than good to this beloved region. Allowing industrialized mining on the edge of the Boundary Waters would not only pollute water, it would also destroy National Forest lands in areas now used for hunting, fishing, snowmobiling, dogsledding, hiking, skiing, canoeing, logging and other activities.” - Becky Rom, third-generation Ely resident and chair of the Campaign to Save the Boundary Waters. ### Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
04.15.2015	Rep. McCollum Introduces the National Park and Wilderness Waters Protection Act Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) introduced the National Park and Wilderness Waters Protection Act, a bill that would afford greater protections from mining related pollution to the Boundary Waters Canoe Area and Voyageurs National Park. H.R. 1796 would prohibit all future mining on federally managed lands in the Rainy River Watershed area, and hold existing mining leases on those lands to new, more stringent environmental standards. “Ensuring that the water flowing into Voyageurs and the BWCA is as clean and clear as the water inside these protected areas will not happen without direct action from Congress and the Obama Administration,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Advocating for the protection of these two American national treasures has been a priority for Minnesotans for decades, and I am proud to advocate for that priority here in Congress. Voyageurs National Park and the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness are special places that belong to all Americans and Minnesotans. These are two of our nation’s most precious environmental areas and we must ensure that the next generation of Americans can also enjoy their beauty.” A copy of the legislation is attached. ### Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
04.14.2015	Our nation has a long tradition of protecting extraordinary natural treasures. Next year we will celebrate the centennial of the National Park Service – 100 years of protecting iconic places like Yellowstone, Yosemite and the Grand Canyon. I view my role in Congress as a steward of these special places and I am committed to protecting our national parks and wilderness areas so that for the next 100 years Americans can enjoy our nation’s natural treasures. Since we live in the “Land of 10,000 Lakes” it is fitting that Minnesotans are the stewards of two of the most unique and unspoiled areas in the United States – Voyageurs National Park and Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness. Together, Voyageurs and the BWCA comprise over 1.3 million acres of federally protected land and water along the Canadian border. It is the pristine water that makes these places special. Over 40% of Voyageurs is water. Within the BWCA there are 1,175 lakes and hundreds of miles of streams. Located within a single watershed – the Rainy River Drainage Basin – water flows west and north into Voyageurs and the BWCA and then into Canada eventually reaching Hudson Bay. Ensuring that the water flowing into Voyageurs and the BWCA is as clean and clear as the water inside these protected areas will not happen without direct action from Congress and the Obama Administration. This week I will introduce legislation to do just that – extend additional protections to prevent mining related pollution from destroying these two treasures. It is the combination of wilderness and water that every year draws hundreds of thousands of visitors from across Minnesota, the U.S., and the world to visit Northeastern Minnesota to experience nature’s calm, true wilderness, and some of the purest water anywhere. These visitors to Voyageurs and the BWCA support a thriving tourist industry resulting in thousands of jobs and hundreds of millions of dollars in economic activity annually. Both Voyageurs and BWCA are federal lands protected by acts of Congress, but within the Rainy River Drainage Basin there are also federal lands with fifty year old mining leases. These leases are now in the hands of one of the largest foreign copper mining companies in the world – Antofagasta – which continues prospecting and exploring the potential for industrial scale mining in the Superior National Forest. Sulfide-ore mining for copper, nickel and other precious metals could take place on thousands of acres, including land that abuts protected wilderness. Sulfide-ore mining poses a direct threat to the waters of Voyageurs and BWCA from a toxic byproduct called “acid mine drainage.” When sulfide rich ore is mined a chemical reaction occurs that produces sulfuric acid as sulfide rock becomes exposed to oxygen. If sulfide-ore mining is allowed to take place on federal lands in the Rainy River Drainage Basin “acid mine drainage” will endanger Voyageurs and BWCA’s fragile water ecosystem, as well as the tourism economy they support. Citizens are concerned about this – very concerned. Over the past months I have been contacted by hundreds of 4th District constituents, thousands of Minnesotans, and more than 60,000 Americans from across the country all asking me to do one thing – protect Voyageurs and the BWCA’s waters from mining and its toxic pollution. Today I want to respond to the thousands of passionate Minnesotans and Americans who love our state’s national park and our wilderness area. The legislation I will introduce this week in Congress would protect Voyageurs National Park and the BWCA. The National Park and Wilderness Waters Protection Act withdraws federal lands in the Rainy River Drainage Basin from the federal mineral leasing program. But, where federal mineral leases currently exist, my bill will require modern, enforceable conditions on mining companies that protect both the environment and American taxpayers. This bill only applies to waters that flow into Voyageurs and the BWCA. In the 1970’s my predecessor, mentor, and friend, Congressman Bruce Vento, established himself as a national champion for our national parks and wild lands. He fought tirelessly to protect Voyageurs and the BWCA. Now decades later, it’s my turn to carry on the tradition of responsible environmental stewardship for our public lands. So I am going to start at home, in Minnesota. Voyageurs National Park and the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness belong to all of us as Minnesotans and Americans. It is worth protecting two special national treasures to make sure the next generation of Americans can enjoy their beauty, quiet, and pristine waters just as so many of us have. Sincerely, Congresswoman Betty McCollum
03.25.2015	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) joined Republican co-author Chris Smith (R-NJ) in introducing the Global Food Security Act of 2015. Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement regarding the legislation: “Improving global health starts with having access to healthy, nutritious foods – especially for our children. The Global Food Security Act will continue to enhance global food security by assisting small-scale farmers in increasing yields, putting more food on their family’s table, and selling more food in the market. This investment in agriculture development and nutrition will help the more than 800 million people worldwide who suffer from chronic hunger. “My colleague Chris Smith understands that these are bipartisan priorities, and I look forward to working with him to pass this bill through the House of Representatives.” ### Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves as the ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Interior and Environment Subcommittee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus.
03.03.2015	Washington - Today, Congress passed a clean, year-long funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security. Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement after its passage. “For months, my democratic colleagues and I have been urging a vote on a clean, long-term funding bill for the Department of Homeland Security. I am pleased that Republican leadership came to their senses and allowed that vote today. Why it took this long to get a clean up or down vote is beyond me, as obviously the bill enjoyed the support it needed to pass. The last several weeks and months of politicking have accomplished nothing, aside from creating uncertainty around our country’s preparedness against attacks. “The good news is that the hundreds of thousands of DHS employees across the country, and the 1500 employed here in Minnesota will have certainty about their paychecks. These women and men do important work to keep us safe against threats in our communities, like the one against the Mall of America, and ensure that travelers are able to make their way safely and smoothly through Minneapolis St. Paul International Airport. “Minnesotans and Americans can feel safer today with the certainty this bill brings to Homeland Security funding. However, there is no reason this funding should have ever been in question to begin with. It is my hope that in the future all appropriations bills that enjoy this kind of support are passed swiftly and are not used as leverage in political games.” ### Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member of the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
03.03.2015	Washington - Today, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu addressed a joint session of Congress. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement after his address: “Today from the floor of the United States House of Representatives the world heard the Israeli prime minister reject diplomacy and flagrantly undermine U.S. diplomatic efforts to the cheers of Congress. It was more campaign rally than serious policy speech which was the prime minister’s goal to begin with. The P5+1 negotiations with Iran are critical to the national security of the United States and I fully support the Obama administration’s diplomatic efforts to deny Iran the ability to acquire a nuclear weapon.”
02.26.2015	U.S. Representative Betty McCollum (DFL-MN), ranking Democrat on the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Subcommittee, delivered the following statement in today’s hearing with the Environmental Protection Agency’s administrator, Gina McCarthy, regarding consultation with tribal nations on the issue of water quality standards for wild rice in Minnesota and across the Lake Superior basin: Administrator McCarthy, an issue I feel very strongly about as do many Members on this sub-committee is the government-to-government relationship between federal agencies and sovereign tribal nations. As you know, in Minnesota and across the Lake Superior basin mining companies are seeking the opportunity to mine copper and nickel which has a very high potential to contaminate our waters. For tribal nations in Minnesota, wild rice is a traditional crop with important economic, sacred and cultural significance. Let me be clear, without full consultation and consent with impacted tribal nations, the EPA should not even consider lowering water quality standards for wild rice. EPA should be promulgating a wild rice water quality rule across the Great Lakes basin. This is not an issue of following the science, but it is an issue of fully honoring and respecting treaty rights with sovereign tribal nations.
02.25.2015	Thank you Mr. Chairman. Secretary Jewell, I join with Chairman Calvert in welcoming you to the subcommittee today. I appreciate that you and Deputy Secretary Connor are here to provide insight into the fiscal year 2016 budget request for the Department of the Interior and to answer any questions we may have. Madam Secretary, as I look over the budget request for the department, I see a budget that recognizes the responsibility that all of us have to be good stewards of our federal lands and the natural and historical resources they contain. I am pleased that the budget request builds upon the bipartisan commitment that this subcommittee has had to further the social and economic well-being of Native Americans, especially in the area of Indian Education. While we have made some progress in addressing the issues that Native Americans face, there is so much more that needs to be done. It is also good to see the renewed commitment in the budget request to preserving and interpreting our national parks as part of the upcoming Centennial of the National Park Service. Combined with the new initiative on America’s Civil Rights Story and ongoing efforts to engage our youth, you are laying a strong foundation for the preservation of our natural and historical heritage. I also appreciate the strong emphasis on science in this budget. Our land and waters face continued, and in many instances, growing threats from invasive species, drought, and climate change. Our land managers and others need the body of scientific research this budget would provide in order to make informed decisions on actions to address or mitigate these threats. After years of diminished budgets, with agencies barely holding their own, your budget request attempts to turn the corner and put sequestration behind us. That said, this is by no means an extravagant budget. Adjusted for inflation, this request proposes to spend less on Interior Department programs than we were spending a decade ago in 2005. Madam Secretary, I know you share with me the concern about the impacts these diminished budgets of the past few years have had not only on the resources entrusted to the department but also the impact on the dedicated employees who have been continually asked to do more with less We can only hope that as the fiscal year 2016 budget goes forward we can restore some sanity to the budget process and that the subcommittee can get a fair and workable budget allocation that will enable us to provide the Interior Department with the fiscal tools it needs to carry out its important work. Madam Secretary, I appreciate the work that you and the employees of the Interior Department do each and every day and I look forward to your testimony this afternoon. Thank you Mr. Chairman.
02.19.2015	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement commemorating Black History Month: “February marks Black History Month, when we celebrate and remember the tremendous impacts that African American men and women have made on our society. From Civil Rights leaders like my friend and colleague in Congress Rep. John Lewis of Georgia who stood with Martin Luther King, to Minnesota cultural luminaries like Prince and August Wilson, our communities and our country would not be what it is today without the achievements of many great African Americans. Minnesota was also changed immeasurably by the work of people like Roy Wilkins, Matt Little and Nellie Stone Johnson. “2015 is a year where we can make great strides in ensuring that we remember and honor the history of African Americans in this country year round. In my role on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee here in Congress, we have the responsibility to appropriate the final funding for the Smithsonian’s African American History Museum which is set to open next year. The museum will tell the stories of African Americans throughout our nation’s history. The final $41 million for completion of the museum represents a fantastic investment in helping to keep these stories alive and accessible for future generations. In addition, the President’s FY16 budget proposes funding for a national historical trail from Selma to Montgomery, Alabama. These projects are two examples of ways we can remember the historic contributions of African Americans in this country throughout the year. I will work to see that both of those projects receive the funding they need to be completed and will continue to support funding for initiatives that lift up the important contributions that African-American women and men have made to our nation.”
02.09.2015	Washington, DC – On March 3rd, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will address a joint session of Congress, just weeks before the Israeli people vote in their national election. The Prime Minister was invited to address the joint session by Speaker John Boehner. The invitation was not shared with President Obama – in violation of the standard protocol for visits by foreign heads of state. The United States is joined by the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Russia, and China in ongoing nuclear talks with Iran which Prime Minister Netanyahu opposes. It is expected that Prime Minister Netanyahu would use his audience in front of Congress to voice his opposition to those talks. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement regarding Prime Minister Netanyahu’s address: “As a Member of Congress, the national security interests of the United States are my highest priority. So, I find it very disturbing when a foreign leader in the midst of a campaign for re-election is allowed to address Congress for the sole purpose of undermining a foreign policy priority shared by the Obama administration and our European allies to score political points at home. In my view Mr. Netanyahu’s speech before Congress is nothing more than a campaign event hosted by Speaker Boehner and paid for by the American people. Mr. Netanyahu’s re-election campaign is not my concern, but politicizing and damaging the U.S.-Israeli relationship by aligning his government with Republicans in Congress against President Obama is something I completely reject. For these reasons, I will not be attending his address to a joint session of Congress next month.” ### Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee, a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus.
02.06.2015	
02.02.2015	Washington, DC – President Barack Obama today announced a $3.99 trillion request to fund the federal government for fiscal year 2016. The proposal prioritizes investments in education, infrastructure construction, workforce development, and national security. President Obama’s plan would reduce the federal budget deficit, end mandatory across the board budget cuts, and increase taxes on the profits of multinational corporations and the wealthiest Americans. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response to the President’s proposal: “President Obama has sent Congress a plan that is focused on strengthening the economy for middle class Americans while reducing the federal deficit and investing in rebuilding our infrastructure. I strongly support ending across the board budget cuts – sequestration – which is stopping lifesaving health research and damaging the preparedness of our servicemen and women. This is a budget that raises taxes on foreign profits to pay for infrastructure here at home that will create jobs and strengthen our economy. “As the congressional budget process moves forward, I will work with the President and my Democratic colleagues to protect the middle class. I am very concerned that Tea Party Republicans will threaten retirement security for our seniors and make cuts to critical investments for our children, our environment, and our economy. Such an abandonment of middle-class priorities needs to be rejected by Democrats and, if necessary, vetoed by President Obama. “It is my hope that Republicans and Democrats will work together to end sequestration and pass appropriations bills for fiscal year 2016 that put the needs of middle class Americans, our economy, and our national security ahead of any partisan agenda.” ###
02.02.2015	Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement following the release of a video by the Islamic State (ISIS) depicting the beheading of Japanese journalist Kenji Goto who had by held captive since October. “I share the sadness of the Japanese people as they mourn the brutal murders Kenji Goto and Haruna Yukawa at the hands of their barbaric ISIS captors. Japan’s grief and outrage is shared by the American people as we watched three our own citizens, Abdul-Rahman (Peter) Kassig, James Foley, and Steven Sotloff, brutalized in the same manner. The U.S. and Japan must stand united with the rest of the world community to combat and eliminate ISIS and all extremist groups like them.”
01.29.2015	Washington, DC – Today, the Department of Interior and the Department of Education announced President Obama’s Native Youth budget recommendations for Fiscal Year 2016. The recommendations announced today include $46 million for Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) replacement school construction – an increase over the administration’s request for $3 million in FY 2015. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) worked to raise the FY2015 funding for BIE replacement school construction to $20 million through her position on the Appropriations Committee. “Today’s announcement is an important recognition by the administration that BIE school construction funding needs tremendous improvement,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “The 48,000 children served by BIE deserve the same quality of education as all other children. Providing that quality of education is the responsibility of the federal government. Indian education has always had bipartisan support from my colleagues in the Native American Caucus and on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee. I thank President Obama and Secretary Jewell for standing up for Native American children with the investments they requested in their budget today.” “The Bureau of Indian Education has long been underfunded and meeting our trust and treaty responsibility for educating Native American children will not happen overnight. Today’s announcement will not immediately fix or repair the 68 Bureau of Indian Education schools that are in poor condition – many of which are unacceptable and unsafe. In Minnesota, children from the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe who attend the Bug O Nay Ge Shig School will still face harsh February days in a converted pole barn that was only ever intended to be a temporary solution. But there is reason to be hopeful that will not be reality for those children for much longer. President Obama and Secretary Jewell have taken a significant action to set us on a path towards ensuring that all children in Indian Country have access to a safe place to learn.” Congresswoman McCollum is the ranking Democratic member on the Interior Appropriations Subcommittee and the Democratic co-chair of the Native American Caucus. ###
01.29.2015	Washington, DC – Last week, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) introduced legislation to reaffirm the right of the Secretary of the Interior to take land into trust for all federally recognized Native American tribes. In 1934, Congress passed the Indian Reorganization Act, granting all federally recognized tribes the right to enter lands into trust. For decades, Democratic and Republican administrations interpreted that law to mean all tribes which are recognized by the federal government at the time of their trust application. A 2009 Supreme Court ruling in the case of Carcieri v. Salazar has brought doubt about whether or not tribes recognized after the passage of the Indian Reorganization Act in 1934 are granted these rights. Congresswoman McCollum’s Carcieri fix legislation would restore clarity and stability for all federal tribes, regardless of their date of recognition. “The federal government has a treaty and trust obligation to all 566 federally recognized tribal nations – and it is disappointing that in recent years we have served that obligation differently based upon when tribes were recognized,” said Congresswoman Betty McCollum. “The intent of the original Indian Reorganization Act was clear – to restore and protect tribal homelands for all sovereign tribal nations. Congress clearly did not intend to limit this right based on the date of a tribe’s recognition. “A clean legislative fix is necessary to ensure that we are fulfilling one of our country’s most sacred obligations. I look forward to working with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to see its swift passage.” ###
01.28.2015	Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) introduced the Stop Wasting Taxpayer Money on Cuba Broadcasting Act (H.R. 570) which would end U.S. taxpayer funding of Cuban television and radio networks. These networks have proven to be ineffective, small in their reach and they represent an outdated approach to our nation’s relationship with Cuba. Over the 30 years we have funded these efforts they have cost taxpayers $770 million. In 2015 Cuba broadcast will cost American taxpayers $27 million. “Radio and TV MartÃ­ are outdated Cold War artifacts,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Our taxpayers should not be funding propaganda broadcasting. Instead, we should be working to facilitate efforts for the American people to engage directly with the Cuban people. As our country modernizes our diplomacy with Cuba for the 21st century it is a perfect time to re-evaluate how we are spending U.S. taxpayer dollars in Cuba. The radio and television broadcasting that we fund is simply not providing appropriate value and should be ceased immediately.” ###
01.20.2015	Washington, DC – This evening, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) will attend President Barack Obama’s State of the Union address with her guest, Saint Paul Area Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Matt Kramer. In advance of the speech, Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “Tonight, President Obama will make very clear that his priority is putting the middle class first. Building a strong foundation for the middle class must be a priority for this Congress as well. I will continue my work to advocate for policies that protect middle-class families in Minnesota and across the country. In past years, I have co-sponsored legislation to enact many of the policies the President has said he will address tonight. The President will give a boost to that work by endorsing investments in infrastructure, middle-class tax cuts, and greater access to higher education in order to support and strengthen middle class families and workers. While these proposals may not be what Congressional Republicans want to hear, I know it is what the American people want to hear. Overwhelmingly, families in Minnesota and across our nation support increasing access to higher education, cutting taxes for middle-class families, and granting paid sick and family leave to workers. It is my hope that Congress – both Democrats and Republicans - will work to build an economy focused on the middle class rather than settling into two more years of obstruction.” ###
12.17.2014	Washington, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced a new course for American relations with Cuba. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement regarding that announcement: “Today is a historic day that marks a new beginning in relations between the U.S. and Cuba. I congratulate President Obama for his efforts to normalize diplomatic relations with Cuba and to begin easing the trade restrictions between our countries. I would also like to thank the President for his efforts to secure the release of USAID worker Alan Gross from prison in Cuba. “While traveling to Cuba this past summer, I saw the tremendous opportunities that exist between the people of our two countries to find common ground in pursuit of human rights, in the service of a democratic transformation and economically. The connections between the American people and the Cuban people are far stronger than any differences. Normalized diplomatic relations will allow us to focus on achieving our shared goals through cooperation and communication – a formula that has served the United States well in nations around the world. “I will continue to work to end the trade embargo between our two countries as I have done since I came to Congress in 2001. Ending the embargo and normalizing trade relations is good for Minnesota businesses and good for the people of Cuba. It is my hope that the politics and politicians in South Florida who have held U.S.- Cuba relations hostage for decades will abandon their Cold War-era policies and join those of us seeking full diplomatic and economic engagement with the Cuban government and its people. “Today’s news is a fantastic step forward that is long overdue. President Obama’s leadership on this issue has been extraordinary and will help us foster the expansion of human rights, security and democracy in the Western Hemisphere.” ###
12.11.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in advance of the vote on the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2015: “Today, funding for the federal government runs out if we do not pass an appropriations bill or a continuing resolution. I want to vote for a bipartisan appropriations bill that keeps our federal government running because there are a number of things included that I have worked hard to pass. However, I cannot vote for this omnibus bill. Republicans have corrupted the appropriations process by secretly inserting provisions that put Wall Street and billionaires ahead of the middle class. “Our appropriations process should be about making our federal government work in a way that meets the needs of every American. We spend months debating various bills to determine how best to fund critical programs and services. Republican leadership is ignoring that process by inserting last-minute provisions that give their billionaire political donors a stronger voice in the political process and allow their allies on Wall Street to be bailed out by taxpayers. Billionaires already play an enormous role in our political process. Today, wealthy donors can give political party committees $97,200 per year. The provisions in this bill would raise that number to $777,000 per year. These provisions, which appeared suddenly in the bill overnight, would amplify the voices of a select, wealthy few and allow them to drown out the political influence of middle-class Americans. This is wrong. “The bill on the floor today would also put middle-class taxpayers back on the hook for abuses by Wall Street banks. In 2010, I helped pass a bill that would help limit abuses in financial institution and protect taxpayers from having to bail out banks. That bill included a provision entitled “Prohibition of Federal Government Bailouts of Swaps Entities.” This provision made sure that federal taxpayers would not bailout banks selling credit swaps – one of the most volatile financial products. Republicans would eliminate that provision, and leave middle-class taxpayers on the hook for bailing out Wall Street again in the future. Then, after gutting language to protect taxpayers from the mistakes of banks, those wealthy bankers would be able to exert greater influence over our nation’s elections and elected leaders. This combination is deeply destructive to our democracy. “We must pass a bill to keep our government funded. Giving greater influence to wealthy political donors and more lax restrictions to questionable financial practices has nothing to do with keeping our government open. These are policy provisions inserted into this bill in the middle of the night, in the hopes that the urgent need to fund our government might overshadow how harmful they are to our country. “My job in the House of Representatives is to represent the best interests of the people of Minnesota. Supporting either of these provisions will benefit billionaires and will harm the people I was elected to serve. I will not support this bill as long as they are included.” ###
12.11.2014	Washington, DC – Today, the United States House of Representatives voted to pass the Global Food Security Act of 2014, a bill which would take significant steps to fight hunger worldwide by empowering and supporting small-scale local farmers. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) was the lead Democratic sponsor of the bill which was authored by Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ). With over 800 million people worldwide suffering from hunger, this critical investment will improve the health of millions, help to stabilize developing nations, and improve American security. “We cannot sit by and do nothing as 800 million hungry people suffer, parents are forced watch their children go hungry, and far too many die from malnutrition” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Human dignity, decency, and our own national security demands that we support and sustain this important investment in agriculture development and nutrition. “This bill is about partnering with hardworking farmers – who are mostly women – to make them more successful. It helps provide access to the knowledge, tools, markets, and business opportunities they desperately need. Because when a woman farmer succeeds, her children and family are healthier and more likely to succeed. “I have seen the difference our investments in agriculture development and nutrition are having in developing nations. I have met women farmers who are feeding their families, sending their children to school, and investing in their communities. These investments have been proven to work, and I am glad that we were able to do more.” H.R. 5656 passed with bipartisan support. ###
11.21.2014	"There are over 11 million undocumented immigrants in our country. We go to church together, shop in the same stores, our children attend school together and they are members of our community. These undocumented immigrants are forced to live in the shadows of our society even though many of their children are U.S. citizens. The current immigration system is not tenable and something must be done now. Over the past seven years, Republicans in Congress have not only refused to rectify this broken system, but have done everything possible to block immigration reform. For example, in 2007, President George W. Bush pursued comprehensive immigration reform which I supported. Congressional Republicans refused to work with their own conservative president. In June 2013, Democrats and Republicans in the U.S. Senate came together to pass a bipartisan comprehensive immigration reform bill. Since then, House Republicans have refused to act on that bill or even allow it to be voted on. Time and again, my colleagues and I have called for this bill to be brought to the House floor for a vote. Time and again we were denied. Why haven’t the Republicans allowed a vote on comprehensive immigration reform? The reason is simple: House Republicans have no interest in reforming an immigration system when they can exploit the current broken system and the 11 million people living in the shadows for their own political gain. Politically, they benefit at the polls from railing against immigration and immigrants. In 1990, President George H.W. Bush, a Republican, took executive action granting deferred action status to 1.5 million undocumented people. And so tonight President Obama is doing what he can to help millions of families in America, as his Republican predecessor did, rather than concede to the unwillingness of Republicans and do nothing. I strongly support President Obama’s decision to take executive action allowing the undocumented parents of American citizens to work legally and pay taxes without fear of being deported. Millions of families will be helped by this action. It also shifts the focus of enforcement away from tearing apart families and instead targets resources against dangerous criminals. These changes are common sense. They help families, they strengthen our economy, and they make our country safer. Tonight’s action by the President is not a replacement for Congressional action. The president’s ability to influence this issue is far more limited than Congress passing real immigration reform. Executive action cannot be a long-term replacement for the work we do here in Congress. As soon as House Republicans decide to stop demagoguing this issue for political gain, we will be able to work together on real reforms. But until then, I support President Obama’s decision to help millions of people escape the shadows and embrace the promise of seeking the American dream."
11.18.2014	
11.17.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) released the following statement in response to the announcement that members of the Minnesota National Guard Red Bull 34th Infantry Division Headquarters will be mobilized in the Spring of 2015 to provide command and control support for U.S. troops involved in Operation United Assistance supporting the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) response to the Ebola virus outbreak in Western Africa. “The Ebola virus is a serious international threat to public health that must be contained and extinguished in West Africa. This requires a global response, including the on-going commitment by U.S. civilian and military personnel. For this crucial humanitarian relief mission, it is no surprise that the Pentagon is calling on Minnesota’s Red Bulls with their proven record of expertise, skill, and resourcefulness. While they will not be treating patients, their mission is vital to containing this virus in Africa and ultimately saving lives. “As with any mission, the health and safety of our soldiers are my highest priorities. I have been working with the U.S. Department of Defense for months to ensure that U.S. troops are trained and ready to assist in this important work, and that extra steps are being taken to protect their health, including providing personal protective equipment and training about the disease. I will also work to ensure our soldiers receive the compensation and benefits they deserve during this deployment. “The citizen-soldiers of the Red Bull 34th Infantry Division Headquarters are leaders of the highest caliber, having been called on combat missions in Iraq and Afghanistan and peacekeeping missions in Kosovo and Bosnia. With this deployment to Liberia, our Minnesota Red Bulls will once again have the support and gratitude of the American people. I wish our troops much success in this important humanitarian mission and their families have my full support.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
11.14.2014	Washington, DC – Today, House Republicans passed legislation (H.R. 5682) exempting the TransCanada Corporation, a Canadian company, from federal permitting requirements to build the Keystone XL pipeline across the U.S. from Canada to the Gulf Coast. The Republican bill exempts the proposed Keystone XL pipeline from environmental review and from paying into the federal Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund. The Keystone XL pipeline would bisect the U.S. from North Dakota to Texas, moving 830,000 barrels of Alberta tar sands oil each day. Presently, the State Department is conducting a review of the project in consultation with federal agencies. However, H.R. 5682 would waive further critical environmental protection reviews. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) issued the following statement following her vote against H.R. 5682: “The Keystone XL pipeline would have a profound environmental impact on this country. There is a federal process in place to review the project and understand the environmental costs and risks to the American people. That process needs to be completed. For this Congress to pass legislation granting such unique and special exemptions to a foreign company is remarkably irresponsible. I urge my colleagues to allow the Obama administration to finish its review and not try to force its hand by cutting a special deal for this Canadian project.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
11.12.2014	Saint Paul, MN –Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) attended the State of Minnesota Veterans Day ceremony at the Minnesota Department of Veterans Affairs in Inver Grove Heights, where she delivered the following remarks: “It is an honor to join you this Veterans Day. Nearly 400,000 veterans call the great state of Minnesota home and we are proud of you – you are our family, our friends and our neighbors. This important day serves as a reminder to our Nation of the enormous sacrifices that brave men and women have made for the ideals and beliefs that all Americans value. Today, our Nation honors 22 million veterans. As service men and women continue to serve around the world, Veterans Day gives us an opportunity to thank you and your families. It is also a day to come together as Americans to pay a special tribute to those who have made the ultimate sacrifice while serving our country in the name of freedom around the world. We must never forget the valiant commitment and bravery of those who have served. It is our responsibility to serve all veterans by providing the highest level of care and compensation they have so bravely earned serving this great Nation. These are commitments to which I hold fast on Veterans’ Day and every day. Thank you.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
11.03.2014	Remarks by Congresswoman Betty McCollum (As prepared) No Honor in Racism Rally November 2, 2014 Good morning. Today, we are gathered in a spirit of peace and solidarity. It is in this spirit that I am so proud to be able to join so many tribal leaders and Native brothers and sisters from tribal nations across Minnesota and the country. I am honored to stand with you all! I want to welcome Ray Halbritter of the Oneida Nation and express my admiration for Ray’s unyielding leadership of the Change the Mascot movement. Thank you, Ray! Also, I want everyone to know this movement has the strong support of our Minnesota Senators – Al Franken and Amy Klobuchar – along with Congressmen Rick Nolan – have all joined the call to “change the mascot.” Today we are raising our voices together in support of respect and dignity for all people. We are here to tell the NFL there is no honor in a racial slur. It is time to change the mascot! Here in Minnesota we have 11 proud tribal nations, but only 150 years ago, their ancestors, men and women, elders and children, were hunted and murdered for profit. This was a government-funded policy of genocide. The pain of this brutal and shameful history is still with us. But instead of joining us in seeking reconciliation and healing, Dan Snyder, Roger Goodell, and the NFL team owners are exploiting for profit this racial slur. The same racial slur used by those who murdered Dakota and Ojibwe people, and Native people all across this country. If there is any decency in the NFL the time is now – change the mascot! To our critics who say this is about being politically correct, I say respect and human dignity is morally correct. It is at the core of our shared values as Americans. To those who say the NFL’s use of this racist mascot is a free speech issue, I say hate speech should never be free, it must be confronted, challenged, and condemned. Brothers and sisters, together, as Minnesotans and Americans, we are sending a strong, unwavering message. Our campaign for respect will defeat the NFL’s racism! Our campaign for dignity will defeat the NFL’s vile slur! Our movement for decency will triumph and the power of the people will win. We will change the mascot! We have brought this movement to a new level. But the journey continues. There is more work to do. We need your strength and your commitment to justice, equality, and respect for all people. Together we will use our power, the power of the people, to reject racism and give hope to the next generation. And, once and for all, change the mascot! Thank you! ###
10.28.2014	October 27th, 2014 The Honorable Shaun Donovan Director Office of Management and Budget Executive Office of the President Washington, DC 20210 Dear Director Donovan: We are writing you as Co-Chairs of the Congressional Native American Caucus and Members of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies to urge the Administration to prioritize funding for a comprehensive plan to address school construction needs at the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) within the Department of Interior (DOI). The education of Native American students is a major part of our federal trust responsibility, with the construction and maintenance of schools included as a requirement in many treaties with tribal nations. Yet in a 2011 report, the No Child Left Behind School Facilities and Construction Negotiated Rulemaking Committee estimated that 63 of 183 BIE schools were in poor condition, and that bringing them to good or fair condition would cost $1.3 billion. This widespread neglect of BIE school infrastructure is a source of great concern among tribal leaders, and the Interior Subcommittee has heard testimony describing cracked and condemned buildings, exposed wiring, leaking roofs, and other serious safety hazards within BIE schools. The Bug-O-Nay-Ge-Shig School in Minnesota, for example, is housed in a facility without proper insulation, continually suffers from mold and infestations, and does not meet fire or security standards. Conditions like these are unsafe for students and undermine their ability to learn and succeed in the classroom. In a report submitted in June to the Secretaries of Interior and Education, the Bureau of Indian Education Study Group made several recommendations, developed in consultation with tribal leaders, for reforming the BIE and improving outcomes for American Indian students. One of their five key recommendations is to reform the BIE budget to support new priorities, the first of which is to “invest in infrastructure to support teaching and learning”. In particular, the Study Group advises DOI to invest in funding to support new school construction and to develop a multiyear facilities plan, similar to that undertaken for Department of Defense schools, to bring all BIE schools up to an acceptable condition. We strongly support the Study Group’s recommendation for additional funding, and agree with the conclusion that “BIE currently lacks the necessary infrastructure that would undergird any serious effort to reform this set of schools.” The condition of schools communicates to students the value that is placed on them and their education, and many BIE schools are sending the message to Native American students that the nation does not consider it worthwhile to invest in them. Before we can expect to close achievement gaps and improve student outcomes, we must change that message. We therefore call upon the Administration to make significant investments in Education Construction, including supporting School Replacement, in the FY2016 DOI Budget. We also urge OMB to work closely with the Study Group and DOI to initiate the multiyear facilities repair process starting in FY16, so that we can begin to bring all BIE schools up to a standard that meets our moral and legal obligations to the education of Native American youth. Thank you for your attention to this important request. If you have any further questions, please feel free to contact Rebecca Taylor (Rep. McCollum) at 202-225-6631 or Stratton Edwards (Rep. Cole) at 202-225-6165. Sincerely, Betty McCollum Tom Cole Member of Congress Member of Congress
10.06.2014	Saint Paul, MN – This morning, the United States Supreme Court allowed lower court rulings in favor of same-sex marriage to stand unchallenged, leading to the immediate recognition of marriage equality in Indiana, Oklahoma, Utah, Virginia, and Wisconsin. Eventually, this decision will lead to marriage equality in thirty states and the District of Columbia. In response, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “Today’s action by the Supreme Court is a huge step forward in the movement towards marriage equality. Loving same-sex couples will now be free to marry in these states. All couples deserve equal recognition under the law, and the Court moved our nation closer to that goal today.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
09.25.2014	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder announced his resignation, following nearly six years leading the Department of Justice. In response, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN-04) issued the following statement: “Attorney General Eric Holder has been an outstanding leader and provided extraordinary service to his country,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Despite relentless partisan opposition, Attorney General Holder has led the fight to advance civil rights, to protect voting rights, and to extend greater equality for LGBT citizens. He has pursued meaningful criminal justice reforms, put a focus on protecting women from violence, and kept our country safe from terrorism. I have tremendous respect and admiration for Mr. Holder’s outstanding record of leadership.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
09.23.2014	St. Paul, MN – As the deadly Ebola epidemic continues to spread in the West African countries of Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea, devastating families and communities, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) today released new projections showing the potential for the epidemic to explode. In Liberia and Sierra Leone, the number of cases of Ebola could rise to as many as 1.4 million by January 2015 without immediate actions to contain the disease. In an equally dire assessment, the International Crisis Group issued a statement today saying, “the hardest hit countries now face widespread chaos and, potentially, collapse. Adding social breakdown to the epidemic would create disaster perhaps impossible to manage.” As co-chair of the Global Health Caucus and a member of the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) has been helping to lead the effort for increased U.S. resources to fight this health emergency. Working with Rep. Karen Bass (D-CA), McCollum successfully championed $88 million of added resources to combat Ebola that was included in the fiscal year 2015 continuing resolution approved by Congress last week. Those funds will provide the CDC with additional on-the-ground resources in West Africa and also allocate funds for the testing of new treatments against Ebola. In addition, Rep. McCollum strongly supports the Department of Defense’s requests to reprogram excess fiscal year 2014 funding to fight Ebola. The requests would make available $1 billion in excess funds from the Overseas Contingency Operations for Afghanistan to support U.S. activities in West Africa. In light of the U.S. response to Ebola and today’s new projections by the CDC, Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “President Obama’s commitment to fighting the Ebola crisis in West Africa is critical to combating this killer disease. The CDC’s new projections paint a picture of true catastrophe unless the international community responds with real urgency. This is no longer a localized problem for affected countries, this is both a global health and national security threat that must be contained and extinguished. I strongly support the Obama administration’s active leadership to engage other nations to strengthen the international response to this Ebola crisis before it is too late.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
09.16.2014	STATEMENT By Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) “CHANGE THE MASCOT PRESS CONFERENCE” SEPTEMBER 16, 2014 Over the past year and a half, our campaign to Change the Mascot of the Washington NFL franchise has grown into a movement. And for that I want to thank the Oneida Nation and NCAI for their tremendous leadership. Native Americans and their leaders have been calling for the end of this racial slur as a team name for decades. Now a broad coalition of civil rights organizations, religious leaders, prominent journalists, and public officials are adding their voices. On Sunday, November 2nd, the Washington football team will be in the Twin Cities to play the Vikings. Dan Snyder’s racist mascot hits a very raw nerve in Minnesota. My state is the home of eleven proud tribal nations, but our state also struggles with a tragic history. The federal government’s 19th Century campaign to eradicate Native Americans, to commit genocide, was waged in Minnesota, as it was in other parts of our country. This is an ad from Winona, Minnesota’s Daily Republican, dated September 24, 1863. It promotes the financial reward for the murder of Native American men, women, and children. Think about what it says:“The state reward for dead Indians has been increased to $200 for every red-skin sent to Purgatory. This sum is more than the dead bodies of all the Indians east of the Red River are worth.” There is a direct historical connection between this vile hate speech used 150 years ago to promote the killing of Native Americans for profit and the 21st Century dehumanizing racial slur which the NFL profits from today. Three months ago, I wrote to Zygi Wilf, the owner of the Minnesota Vikings, urging him to speak out in favor of changing the mascot. My letter to Mr. Wilf has been met with silence. Silence, denial, and the refusal to confront harmful behavior seems to be a pattern for the National Football League and its team owners. For years, the NFL denied that playing football was the cause of debilitating brain injuries among scores of former players. For far too long, violence against women committed by NFL players was dismissed or minimized by the League. This same denial is seen when the NFL and team owners continue to support the use of a racial slur that is degrading and dehumanizing to Native Americans. It is clear from their actions and disturbing pattern of denial that the NFL values profits over people. NFL profits are more important than the health and well-being of former NFL players. NFL profits are more important than the wives, girlfriends, and partners of NFL players who have been beaten and abused. And, profit sharing by NFL team owners from a vile racial slur that demeans, dehumanizes, and degrades millions of our fellow citizens is more important than standing with Native Americans who are demanding the respect and dignity they deserve. The American people know that actions which bully, harm, or dehumanize others are not acceptable. The American people know that hate speech is wrong. And the NFL can no longer deny that hate speech is what Dan Snyder’s mascot represents. In a nation that continues to struggle against racism and discrimination, it can only be money that motivates the NFL to defend a slur that harkens back to the darkest of days when a white man could get paid for hunting and murdering an Indian in cold blood. This team name is a reminder of that brutal violence. But there is a solution – Change the Name! The NFL’s culture of silence must be confronted. It is time for 31 NFL team owners to speak out and change the name. It is time for 31 NFL team owners to reject the use of this derogatory and hateful slur and change the name. The time for action is now because this movement is not going away, it is only getting bigger and more vocal. The mascot will change because our coalition is growing and Native leaders and elders and families all across 566 Indian nations and these United States are demanding that the NFL Change the Mascot. Here in Congress, we are working with leaders throughout Indian Country on many important issues. And standing with Native people as they fight for the respect they deserve is among the absolute most important issue. I’m proud to lend my voice to support the call of Minnesota’s tribal nations, the National Congress of American Indians, and countless others to Change the Mascot. ###
09.11.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) issued the following statement on the 13th Anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the United States: “As Americans reflect on the tragedy, loss, and pain we felt as a Nation on September 11, 2001, let us remember and pray for the men and women who lost their lives that day, along with the families and friends left behind. The passing of thirteen years has not diminished the determination and commitment of the American people to honor the victims and remain vigilant to never allow such an attack to happen again.” “Extremist terror continues to be a violent global threat that demands leadership and action from the U.S. and all civilized nations to prevent terrorist acts, but also eliminate the terrorists themselves. As the U.S. confronts the growing threat from ISIL in the Middle East, I strongly support President Obama and the men and women of the Armed Forces, intelligence community, and diplomatic corps whose duty it is to defend our freedom while protecting the lives of millions of innocents in distant lands.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
09.09.2014	Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives voted to pass the Waters of the United States Regulatory Overreach Protection Act (H.R. 5078). This Republican legislation prevents the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Army Corps of Engineers from developing a clear definition of navigable waters of the United States with the intent to impede action on protecting water resources. EPA requires a clear definition to continue implementing the Clean Water Act, which safeguards wetlands and tributaries in the United States. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) voted against the bill and issued the following statement: “Once again Republicans are taking aim at the environment and clean water by unnecessarily intervening in a critical rule-making process. Preserving the health of America’s wetlands and streams is essential to Minnesota, a state with more than 10,000 lakes and over 69,000 miles of river. The EPA and the Army Corps of Engineers need to continue moving forward, in consultation with key stakeholders, and develop a sound definition that protects the health of a precious natural resource – America’s waters.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
09.05.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) was informed this week that the National Guard Bureau is facing a $101 million budget shortfall as the September 30th end of the federal fiscal year approaches. The Minnesota National Guard will be forced to reduce personnel and training expenditures by $3.6 million to help solve this budget problem. All state and territorial Army National Guard units have also been asked to delay drills until the end of September. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement in response: “The National Guard Bureau’s $101 million budget shortfall has placed additional and unnecessary uncertainty and stress on National Guard members, their families and employers in Minnesota and across the country. These citizen soldiers have made a commitment to serve their country at great sacrifice and therefore it is essential that the Pentagon’s National Guard bureaucracy do their job. In this instance they have failed. I fully support Congress allowing the reprogramming of National Guard funds, but it is also time we investigate Army National Guard budgeting practices. The National Guard Bureau needs to eliminate wasteful expenditures, like a nearly $30 million sponsorship of a NASCAR racing team, to cover future critical personnel and training costs.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
08.29.2014	Washington, DC – On Monday we celebrate Labor Day. It is a day to reflect and honor the hard-working men and women in all walks of life, across our country, who keep our nation strong, our economy growing, and are building a better future for the next generation of Americans. This Labor Day is also a time to redouble our efforts to extend greater justice in the workplace – ensuring women receive equal pay for equal work, a fair minimum wage, and paid sick leave for all workers. Tens of millions of Americans go to work every day to keep our country strong. Let’s celebrate and honor their efforts, but let’s always strive to make sure every American worker is well trained, in a safe workplace, and treated with fairness, dignity, and respect. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
08.08.2014	Washington, DC – President Obama has authorized targeted military airstrikes against the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) to protect American officials in northern Iraq, as well as Kurds, Christians, and Yazidis, a religious minority under siege by ISIS. The President also authorized a humanitarian mission to airdrop food and water for the Yazidis, which began yesterday. This morning, the Pentagon announced that the U.S. Air Force had conducted limited military strikes against ISIS militants in northern Iraq. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “President Obama is appropriately exercising his authority to prevent atrocities from being committed against innocent civilians in Iraq,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Limited military strikes and emergency humanitarian aid are essential to saving lives and deterring the serious threat posed by ISIS. The men and women of the Armed Forces have my full support as they seek to save civilian lives in Iraq.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
08.08.2014	Washington, DC – In response to media requests for comment, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement regarding an August 1, 2014, letter from University of Minnesota President Eric Kaler. The letter addressed the impending visit of the Washington NFL franchise to TCF Bank Stadium to play the Minnesota Vikings. “The University of Minnesota is a world-class institution of higher education that is dedicated to making diversity, equity, and social justice universal values,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “The presence of the Washington NFL franchise and their racist name on November 2nd at TCF Bank Stadium tests those values. I am pleased that President Kaler is fully engaged in discussions with the Vikings and is appropriately concerned about Dan Snyder’s refusal to change this offensive mascot.” “The University of Minnesota should live up to its values. This includes ensuring an environment on campus in which Native Americans and all Americans will be respected, not disparaged. Students, faculty, and all who visit the University of Minnesota should not be subjected to a harmful stereotype, and should instead be immersed in the very values the University champions.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
08.08.2014	Washington, DC – Yesterday, the National Guard announced that it would be ending its $32 million annual sponsorship of NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt, Jr., as well as ending their $12 million contract with IndyCar driver Graham Rahal. In addition to NASCAR and IndyCar, the Pentagon’s professional sports marketing efforts have wasted more than $1 billion of taxpayer funds on professional fishing, motocross, World Wrestling Entertainment, and cage fighting since the program’s inception. The program was established as a recruitment tool, but the Pentagon has never been able to verify that the program resulted in a single recruit. Since 2011, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) has led the effort in the U.S. House of Representatives to defund Pentagon professional sports sponsorships. In response, Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “Cancelling this NASCAR racing team contract is a victory for taxpayers and I’m pleased to say the National Guard has finally made the correct decision. Paying one race car driver $32 million in taxpayer funds year after year to put a logo on his car has been a complete waste of tax dollars,” McCollum said. “It’s time to put these funds into proven recruitment efforts that will provide the National Guard with the high quality recruits they’ll need to meet future challenges,” she concluded. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
07.30.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Congressman Dave Reichert (R-WA) introduced H. Res 688, expressing support for the GAVI Alliance, which provides access to life-saving vaccines to children in the world’s poorest countries. The GAVI Alliance was formed in 2000 as the result of a partnership between leading global health organizations such as the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. At the time, immunization rates were falling and life-saving vaccines were not reaching the people who needed them most. Since then, GAVI has helped increase access to vaccines, establish immunization programs in developing countries, and help finance the development of new vaccines. Thanks in large part to GAVI’s work, developing countries are now better equipped to prevent disease and protect the health of their children. “Ensuring that all children have access to life-saving vaccines is one of the best global health investments we can make,” said Congresswoman Betty McCollum. “Because of GAVI’s incredible work, more than 440 million of children in the world’s poorest countries have been immunized against preventable diseases. Still, too many children need access to these basic vaccines. I look forward to working with my congressional colleagues to ensure the United States remains strongly committed to GAVI’s success.“ “No child’s life should ever be jeopardized by preventable disease,” said Congressman Dave Reichert. “I am proud to work with the GAVI Alliance and help educate my colleagues about the need for childhood vaccines and immunizations in all parts of the world. I thank Congresswoman McCollum for her work on this issue and I am honored to work alongside her to make a difference in protecting the health of children across the globe.” "With strong bipartisan support from Congress, the U.S. is leading a global effort to end preventable child deaths," said Joanne Carter, Executive Director of RESULTS. "The upcoming replenishment of GAVI will be a critical moment to accelerate progress in saving lives, and help poor countries ensure that all children, everywhere can have access to life-saving vaccines." ###
06.30.2014	Washington, DC – Today, President Obama announced that he would take new steps to address our nation’s broken system of immigration in light of Congressional inaction. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response: “President Obama’s decision to take unilateral action to fix our nation’s broken immigration system is welcome news. I share his frustration with Republicans in the House of Representatives and their refusal to allow a vote on the comprehensive immigration reform bill that has already passed the Senate. “Real solutions for securing our borders, a pathway to citizenship and ways for highly-skilled workers to enter our economy are ideas that have broad support from the faith, business, labor, and law enforcement communities. Yet, Speaker Boehner and his Tea Party colleagues refuse to act. “The American people have made it very clear that they support comprehensive immigration reform and it is time to insist that politicians do the same.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
06.30.2014	Washington, DC – This morning, the United States Supreme Court issued their decision in Burwell vs. Hobby Lobby. In response, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “Today’s decision from the Supreme Court is an attack on the rights of women and sets a dangerous new standard for corporate personhood that I completely reject. All women deserve the right to make their own decisions about their health, without the intrusion of their employer’s views or beliefs. My commitment is to find every legislative avenue available to reverse this ruling which is an attack on women and sound medical science.”
06.25.2014	Washington, DC – Tomorrow, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) will survey the damage caused by flooding across the Fourth District. Congresswoman McCollum will be joined by local leaders and elected officials in Stillwater, St. Paul and Newport as she assesses the situation on the ground. On Tuesday, Congresswoman McCollum spoke with White House officials and conveyed to them the severe impact that this flooding has had on the Fourth District. Stillwater, MN WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum, local officialsWHAT: Update from local officials and MnDOT staff, Tour of flood area surrounding Stillwater Lift BridgeWHERE: Stillwater, MN – Water Street Inn, 101 Water St S, Stillwater, MN 55082WHEN: 8:30 a.m., Thursday, July 26th Newport, MN WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum and local officialsWHAT: Update from Newport officials and tour of affected leviesWHERE: Newport, MN – Newport City HallWHEN: 10 a.m., Thursday, July 26th St. Paul, MN WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum, National Guard and City of St. Paul officialsWHAT: Update from National Guard and City of St. Paul officials and tour of flood areas surrounding Holman FieldWHERE: St. Paul, MN – Holman Air FieldWHEN: 11 a.m., Thursday, July 26th Fourth District residents who are looking for information about road closures, reporting damage, or other effects of the flood can find those resources on Congresswoman McCollum’s website at mccollum.house.gov/flood-resources
06.20.2014	June 19, 2014 Mr. Zygi Wilf Minnesota Vikings Football Club 9520 Viking Drive Eden Prairie MN, 55344 Dear Mr. Wilf: Yesterday, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office ruled to cancel legal protections for the trademarked name of the National Football League’s Washington franchise because it is “disparaging to Native Americans.” The time for debate has ended – the name of the Washington franchise is clearly an offensive racial slur. I urge you, as an NFL team owner, to not remain silent on this matter any longer. Thirty-one NFL franchises split the sales of their licensed merchandise equally. When a shirt, cap, or jersey bearing the Washington team name is sold, the Minnesota Vikings share in the profit from that sale. After yesterday’s decision, all NFL owners must now ask themselves if they want to continue to profit from a name so hurtful to our Native American brothers and sisters that the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office deemed it ineligible for federal protection. By taking a stand to change the mascot, you can send a very clear message to the Native Americans and their many allies throughout Minnesota and our nation that you no longer wish to profit and benefit from the commercialization of that hateful slur. In November, the Minnesota Vikings are scheduled to host the Washington franchise for a game on the University of Minnesota campus at TCF Bank Stadium. As you will be a co-host with the University on their campus, I would like to remind you of three facts. First, Minnesota has a strong Native American community and TCF Bank Stadium honors that community with a plaza recognizing each of our tribal nations. In addition, one of those tribal nations, the Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux, contributed to the funding of this stadium. Lastly, the presence of the Washington franchise and their racist name on the University of Minnesota campus would be in violation of the Board of Regents’ Equity, Diversity, Equal Opportunity, and Affirmative Action Policy. A strong condemnation of the Washington franchise’s name by the Minnesota Vikings Football Club would go a long way towards helping to change the mascot. Mr. Wilf, I believe you are a man of integrity. Therefore I am calling upon you to publically demonstrate leadership on behalf of your organization and the people of Minnesota by adding your voice to the millions of Americans who are calling for this racist mascot to be changed and for Native Americans to be treated with respect and dignity by the NFL. Sincerely, Betty McCollum Member of Congress
06.18.2014	Washington, DC – In a landmark ruling today, the federal Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (TTAB) ruled that the name of the National Football League’s Washington franchise, owned by Mr. Dan Snyder, is so offensive that it should not be granted protections as a federal trademark. The largest Native American advocacy group in the country, countless members of Congress, over half of the United States Senate, and President Obama have all agreed that this name is a racial slur. Today, the TTAB agreed, calling the word “disparaging” to Native Americans. “This ruling is a victory for decency,” said Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN). “I commend the Native American petitioners and tribal leaders from across Indian Country for their courage to confront this ugly issue head on and strive for both justice and the respect they deserve.” “It is time for NFL team owners to have the courage to speak out and pressure Dan Snyder to change his team’s racist name. Any effort by Mr. Snyder to appeal this ruling can only be viewed as a bigoted attempt to continue to profit from this racist team name at the expense of the dignity of Native Americans.”
06.13.2014	Washington, DC – Today, President Obama will visit the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe in Cannon Ball, North Dakota. It is his first visit to a tribal nation since he became President in 2008. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) is the co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus and released the following statement in advance of the President’s visit: “I commend the President for his visit to Standing Rock to see first-hand the challenges and opportunities within this Lakota and Dakota nation. President Obama’s visit sends a strong message of his administration’s commitment to Native American issues. His administration has implemented major reforms that are important for Standing Rock and other tribal nations, such as the Indian Healthcare Improvement Act, the Violence Against Women Act, and the HEARTH Act. Indian Country has a strong partner in President Obama.”
06.13.2014	Washington, DC – On Saturday, Green Line light rail transit service will begin connecting downtown Saint Paul and downtown Minneapolis. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) has been an instrumental part of bringing that project to fruition. From advocating federal funding for transit planning, to securing a $20 million appropriation for construction of the line, Congresswoman McCollum has been involved in every step of the process to make Saturday’s grand opening possible. “This weekend's opening of the Green Line is an important step that is cause for celebration. It represents the culmination of more than a decade of work by a diverse coalition of organizations and allies,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Businesses, labor leaders, state, local and federal elected officials all recognized the value that this project could have for downtown Saint Paul and worked tirelessly to see it happen. I have been proud to work hand in hand with those organizations and leaders to make today a reality.” “Building a balanced 21st century transit system that serves both the east and west metro is vital to attracting future economic growth, jobs and talent,” McCollum continued. “Union Depot is a state of the art multi-modal transit hub that is the backbone to a strong regional transit system, to help drive economic growth and regional development. Gateway, Riverview, Rush Line, Red Rock and Robert Street Corridors, High Speed Rail and expanded Amtrak service are vital projects that we must develop to benefit the entire Twin Cities region and our state.” Congresswoman McCollum has been active in working on the Green Line and Union Depot projects throughout her time in Congress. In 2004, she helped to secure $1 million in federal funds to study transit options through the new Union Depot. In 2009, through her role on the Appropriations Committee, she secured a $20 million appropriation to fund the line’s construction. Congresswoman McCollum was a crucial member of the federal delegation that worked to secure the Federal Transit Authority’s commitment to paying for half of the project’s cost.
06.12.2014	Washington, DC – This week, Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK) introduced the Native Contract and Rate Expenditure (CARE) Act (H.R. 4843), a bill that will provide an additional 250,000 physician services annually for Native Americans through payment reforms within the Indian Health Service (IHS). “Our nation has a legal and moral responsibility to provide for the health care of Native Americans. For far too long, Congress has failed to meet that responsibility and that needs to change,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “There is an infamous warning in Indian Country: 'Don't get sick after June.' The current system causes IHS to consistently run out of money for referred care months before the end of the fiscal year, denying Native people critical health care services for extended periods of time. “By paying health care providers the Medicare-rate, rather than the provider billed rates, IHS will be able to double the number of physician services provided to Native Americans – that means hundreds of thousands of additional patient visits. The common sense, bi-partisan legislation I have introduced will ensure that federal tax dollars already being spent on Indian health care go further. “We have the opportunity to dramatically expand access to quality care and preventive services that would have previously been deferred or denied. This bipartisan legislation is an important step in our common goal to reduce health disparities for Native Americans and make the Indian Health Service a world class health system.” The Native CARE Act would result in more health care services under the Purchased/Referred Care program for Native people who are referred by the Indian Health Service and tribal health programs to non-IHS facilities when necessary. Under current law, only hospital providers are required to accept Medicare-rates from Purchased/Referred Care programs. IHS continues to routinely pay full billed charges to non-hospital providers, which quickly diminishes the limited pool of Purchased/Referred care funds. Under the reforms set forth in this bill, IHS would reimburse Medicare-participating providers for services at a rate that is no greater than what Medicare would pay for the same service. The Native CARE Act is a revenue-neutral proposal and is consistent with how the VA and DOD pay for non-hospital services. In 2013, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued a report that concluded that IHS and tribal facilities would be able to provide millions of dollars in additional care to Native people if the Medicare-like rate cap was imposed on non-hospital providers and suppliers. The President’s FY2015 Budget Request for the Indian Health Service included support for a legislative proposal to implement GAO’s suggestions. On June 11th, the National Congress of American Indians passed a resolution calling on Congress to work to pass legislation to enact the Medicare-like rate cap. Congresswoman McCollum worked closely with the National Indian Health Board, the United South and Eastern Tribes, and the Self-Governance Communication & Education Tribal Consortium to develop this legislation. The Native CARE Act has been cosponsored by Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), Rep. Ben Ray LujÃ¡n (D-NM), Rep. Darrell Issa (R-CA), Rep. RaÃºl Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. John Kline (R-MN), Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ), Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Rep. Don Young (R-AK), and Rep. Jared Huffman (D-CA). Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
06.02.2014	Washington, DC – In response to the proposed Environmental Protection Agency action to reduce carbon emissions, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “Climate change is a clear and present threat to our natural environment. Over the past several years, we have seen an increase in super storms, an uptick in tornadoes, and rapidly melting ice in the arctic. Severe weather events are becoming more frequent and they are affecting more Americans. These consequences of carbon pollution and the resulting climate change are easy to see and feel, and their impacts are often devastating. “Carbon pollution has another consequence that is less readily apparent, but still poses a great threat to our nation – the catastrophic effect that poor air quality can have on our nation’s public health. Carbon pollution is tied to higher rates of asthma and an increased risk of heart attack. Air that is highly polluted can worsen the effects of many pre-existing health conditions and put the public at a greater risk. Improving the quality of the air that we breathe is simply good public policy for the current health of our nation and the future of our planet. I join public health advocacy groups like the American Lung Association in applauding the President and his administration for taking this critical step today. “President Obama’s plan to reduce carbon emissions will not only impact the lives of millions suffering from asthma, and other respiratory illnesses, but it sends an important message to the world that the United States is responding to one of the most damaging causes of climate change. “The science around climate change is overwhelming and clear – our climate is changing and there are things that we can do to slow that change. However, if my Republican colleagues continue to discount the scientific community, future generations will pay the price. We have a responsibility to our nation and to future generations to take action now. I take that responsibility seriously and I urge my Republican colleagues to do the same.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
05.30.2014	Washington, DC – In response to the news that President Obama had accepted the resignation of Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “The news of General Shinseki’s resignation this morning is an unfortunate political reality. General Shinseki has been a hero to this country through both his 38 years of military service reaching the rank of four-star general and in his role as cabinet secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs. “General Shinseki and our nation’s veterans were betrayed by those in the Phoenix VA medical center who willfully misled about the nature of the problems affecting the VA health care system. He was not given the information he needed by those who reported to him in order to correct these problems. Moving forward, we must ensure that the next Secretary of Veterans Affairs does not meet similar institutional obstacles. “Meeting the needs of our nation’s veterans must remain a top priority for both the Administration and for Congress. The broken system that has failed our veterans still remains in place. We must address the systemic problems plaguing the VA health care system and provide increased oversight and any other tools, including greater resources or additional clinicians, that will address the backlog of care for our veterans. It is my hope that all of my colleagues who sought the resignation of General Shinseki will pursue with equal vigor the reforms and resources needed to ensure all of our country’s veterans receive the timely care that they need.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
05.29.2014	Washington, DC – In response to the Department of Veterans Affairs inspector general’s report on the misconduct at the Phoenix VA health care system, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “After thirteen consecutive years of war, millions of new veterans joining the system, and the expanded eligibility for Agent Orange exposed Vietnam era veterans, the VA health system is overwhelmed and it needs to be modernized. Congress has a duty to ensure our veterans get the health services they deserve. Expanding the number of clinicians available to see patients and providing funding to modernize VA health records brings us closer to that goal. Looking for scapegoats does not. “Calling for the resignation of Secretary of Veterans Affairs Eric Shinseki before all the facts are in may make politicians feel good, but it does nothing to address the real needs of the VA health care system. It does not confront the misconduct and possible criminal neglect of veterans by officials at the Phoenix VA medical facility. “I support expanding the inspector general’s investigation to include all VA facilities and the inclusion of the Department of Justice in pursuing criminal misconduct at the Phoenix VA medical facility. Those who neglected to properly care for our veterans must be held accountable. I urge President Obama to identify the reforms and resources needed to ensure that a situation like this will never happen again. Congress has the responsibility to conduct bipartisan oversight and provide the resources necessary to build a health care system that works for our veterans. It is time to get to work.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
05.23.2014	Each year on Memorial Day, we pause from our busy lives and take time to remember the brave men and women who have given their lives in the service of our country. Throughout our nation’s history, the men and women of our Armed Forces have defended our nation and helped to ensure peace and stability around the globe. Those brave Americans who have died in World War II, Korea, Vietnam, the Gulf War, and in Iraq deserve to be honored and remembered this Memorial Day. This year, the longest war in our country’s history continues. For over thirteen years, American troops have been serving in harm’s way in Afghanistan. This Memorial Day, more than 33,000 U.S. fighting men and women continue to confront a deadly enemy, train Afghan security forces, and provide the security needed for the Afghan people to determine the direction of their country. It has not been an easy journey. The conflict started following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks on the U.S., in which al-Qaeda used Afghanistan as their base of operations, and has continued at great cost with more than 2 million American men and women having served in the conflict. This Memorial Day, I remember and pray for the 2,184 Americans who died in Operation Enduring Freedom, along with the nearly 20,000 service members wounded in action. Their sacrifices and the sacrifices made by all of our veterans deserve respect and gratitude. That same respect and appreciation should be extended to the families of our troops serving today, the families of our veterans, and, especially, the families that have lost a son or daughter, husband or wife, father or mother in the service of our nation. To all of these American families, we owe a debt that can never be repaid. Such profound sacrifices have been made and we must reflect on why we went to war and what has been accomplished. The war in Afghanistan was in direct response to a horrific attack on America that killed or injured thousands of innocent citizens and forever transformed our nation. American forces responded decisively starting in October 2001 to remove al-Qaeda and the Taliban, but ensuring security and rebuilding a failed nation has not been easy. At the start of the war, U.S. troops found a country living in the Dark Ages. Harsh persecution, poverty, and intolerance were the norm under Taliban rule. Women had almost no rights within Afghan society. They were forced to wear burkas to hide their faces and unable to leave home unaccompanied, have a job, or vote. Girls were denied access to an education, and often sold or forced into marriage, even as pre-teens, to men at times decades older. At that time, a child born in Afghanistan had a one-in-four chance of dying before age five. Over the past dozen years, American troops and our international partners have helped to create conditions in which major progress has been made to improve the lives of the Afghan people. The foundation for a modern economy has been built, a working health care system now exists, and educational opportunities are available for all children. Women are fully engaged in the economy, government, and helping to build the country’s future. Without the support of American troops, these transformations would not have been possible. Last month, Afghanistan held a national election for president that drew millions of voters to the polls –women and men. Despite the threat of Taliban attacks, these courageous Afghans went to vote for their future, a future secured by the sacrifice of brave American troops who volunteered to serve our country and put themselves in harm’s way. In the coming months, the future of Afghanistan will continue to transition to increasingly be in the hands of the Afghan people themselves. This is how it should be. By the end of 2014, hopefully all U.S. forces will be home, with the exception of a small residual force. Every Minnesotan and American who has served in Afghanistan has the right to be proud of the contribution they made to our national security and to help build a better future for the Afghan people. For those who gave the ultimate sacrifice in the service of our Nation, this Memorial Day let us all remember and honor them, extending our most heartfelt respect to their families. Like the fallen heroes from World War II, Korea, Vietnam, and Iraq, our heroes of the war in Afghanistan deserve our prayers and most profound thanks.
05.15.2014	In response to the release of the conference committee report of H.R. 3080, the Water Resources Reform and Development Act (WRRDA), Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “When Congress passes WRRDA in the coming weeks, my language to create a multi-agency task force headed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service will be included. I am proud to be joined by bipartisan, bicameral group of legislators who have come together to recognize the importance of this issue and commit to finding solutions. “By creating a multi-agency task force, headed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, we can ensure that federal agencies are all working towards the same goal - combating the spread of Asian carp throughout the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River Valley. As we address this complex challenge, an efficient use of resources and close coordination will be critical. “I look forward to the opportunity to cast my vote on final passage of this legislation in the near future, so that we may begin to tackle the serious challenge of slowing the spread of Asian carp without delay.” Congresswoman McCollum’s language was supported by the entire Minnesota congressional delegation. Congresswoman McCollum’s Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act (H.R. 358) was the basis for the language included in the final version of WRRDA. The bill had 26 bipartisan co-sponsors including the entire Minnesota congressional delegation. The full text of the language offered by Congresswoman McCollum is attached.
05.14.2014	Honoring 106 years of Navy nursing, Naval Health Research Center's (NHRC) head nurse and commanding officer took part in a Navy Nurse Corps birthday celebration with a distinguished guest and staff, May 13, at NHRC headquarters San Diego.Navy Nurse Corps Capt. Jacqueline Rychnovsky, Rep. Betty McCollum, Minnesota 4th congressional district, and NHRC staff listened to the birthday messages from leadership across the Navy before hearing personal remarks from McCollum."Our Nurse Corps officers fly with wounded from battle-torn areas; provide care in the fleet and on hospital ships; establish native nursing schools, clinics, and small hospitals in remote areas of the world; and administer or command Navy medical treatment facilities worldwide," read NHRC's Director of Operational Infectious Disease Research Cmdr. Gary Brice from the U.S. Navy Surgeon General Vice Adm. Matthew L. Nathan's birthday message. "Our nurses are published and renowned scientists, researchers, teachers, providers and clinicians."This rings true for NHRC's nursing staff. Scientific research, technology, and development, are the areas in which their expertise becomes crucial."We are primarily responsible for managing the clinical data utilized for ongoing research," explained Operational Research-Clinical Support Division Manager Capt. Judy Dye. "Our work becomes the main component of the database used by the DoD to promote and maintain the health of all military members and their families."With more than 23 years Navy nursing experience, Dye noted how celebrating the Navy Nurse Corps birthday as a nurse in research and development has special meaning. "It's definitely different because nurses tend to be clinically focused. We are analyzing clinical data instead of taking care of patients in a traditional health care setting. We contribute to health care through research," explained Dye.Shortly after the birthday messages, McCollum addressed the staff."I have not only a professional appreciation of nurses, including those of you in this room, but a personal connection as well," said McCollum. "My sister-in-law is a nurse, a doctor nurse, and I know how hard she works and see the value and meaning in what she does personally. It takes a special person to do what you do."The ceremony concluded with closing remarks from the commanding officer, and the ceremonious cake-cutting by the most junior and senior Nurse Corps Officers in the room. McCollum was also invited to take part in the time honored Navy tradition."Hearing stories like the one from the congresswomen was very touching," said Dye. "To hear her personal story about her own family, her own life, and how nursing has touched her day to day, when we just think we're doing our job, it reminds us that our work is meaningful to others."As the DoD's premier medical research center, NHRC's cutting-edge research and development is used to optimize the operational health and readiness of the nations armed forces. Within close proximity to more than 95,000 uniformed service members, world-class universities, and industry partners, NHRC's expert team sets the standards in joint ventures, innovation, and practical application. https://www.navy.mil/submit/display.asp?story_id=80999
05.09.2014	Washington, DC – “Today is a historic day as we welcome passenger rail service back to the Union Depot for the first time in more than 40 years. As President Obama said when he visited the Depot in February, the restoration of this multi-modal transit hub ‘symbolizes what is possible’ when our community comes together. “The beginning of Amtrak service is another major step toward returning Union Depot to the busy, exciting place I remember as a young girl, waiting to take the train to Montana to visit my grandfather. Since the Depot reopened in December 2012, it has welcomed back daily intercity and Metro Transit bus service, launched major arts and community events and hosted the President of the United States. In just a month, the Green Line (Central Corridor) will arrive and depart from its front steps. “On this day, it is also fitting to remember the great contributions made by my friend and former colleague in the House, Transportation Committee Chairman Jim Oberstar. He believed in this project and it is a part of his vast legacy of transportation improvements across the country. “The Ramsey County Board, the City of St. Paul, the Saint Paul Area Chamber of Commerce, citizen members of the LOCATE Task Force, and the Metropolitan Council have been supportive and proactive local partners and without their fantastic work, Amtrak would not be arriving at the Depot today.” Congresswoman McCollum will attend National Train Day at Union Depot on Saturday, May 10th. ####
05.09.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in advance of a vote on H.R. 4438: “This legislation would make permanent R&D tax credits without paying for them, adding $156 billion to our nation’s debt. My Republican colleagues consistently talk about the need to balance the budget and are now voting for a bill that would significantly add to our nation’s debt. “I have consistently supported R&D tax credits throughout my time in Congress in order to help businesses innovate and compete globally - but I believe they must be paid for. Congress must approach spending in the tax code the same way we approach spending on the appropriations side: there must be responsible offsets. “This bill fails to reach any kind of bipartisan agreement on a way to extend these R&D credits. This failure would jeopardize critical resources for lifesaving research, education, infrastructure improvements, and job training. For these reasons this bill will not have my support.” Last month, Congresswoman McCollum voted in support of the Democratic Budget for Fiscal Year 2015 which included a deficit-neutral reserve fund that could have accommodated an extension of various expired tax credits, including the R&D tax credits. ####
05.09.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in advance of a vote Republican Speaker John Boehner’s proposal to establish a Select Committee on Benghazi: “What happened in Benghazi on September 11, 2012 was a tragedy. Four Americans were murdered as they were serving their country. “Congress has investigated this tragedy thoroughly. The facts have been reviewed by four congressional committees, which have released eight reports, interviewed dozens of witnesses, and reviewed more than 25,000 pages of documents. “What is clear now is that House Republicans intend to use this select committee to politicize this tragedy. It is outrageous that the National Republican Congressional Committee is raising money for political purposes by exploiting the tragedy in Benghazi.” “Millions of Americans are out of work, those who have work are struggling to make a living wage, and our nation’s system of immigration remains broken. I call on Speaker Boehner and his Republican colleagues to move forward on the pressing issues facing our country rather than continue to use a national tragedy for their own political games.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus ###
05.06.2014	Washington, DC – Today, the White House released the U.S. National Climate Assessment, a report detailing the impacts of climate change on our nation’s weather patterns, air quality, health outcomes and agriculture production. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “There is no debate regarding the reality of climate change on our planet. There is indisputable scientific evidence that climate change is already affecting the United States. Today’s report highlights the need to not only act, but to act more quickly to mitigate the impact of our changing planet. This is the responsibility of not only government, but all of society. “It is disappointing that some political leaders and business leaders are working to create a debate around an issue that has long been put to rest by the scientific community. It is not only disingenuous, but dangerous for the American people. “The impact that this issue has on the lives of every man, woman and child in this country will only grow in the coming years. This report underscores the need for urgency in addressing our nation’s energy and environmental policies in order to manage, understand and mitigate the impacts of our changing planet.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
05.06.2014	Washington, DC – This week is National Teacher Appreciation Week. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “Our nation’s teachers give so much to their students and communities. They are educators who open minds, mentors who shape futures, and unsung heroes in many young lives. During National Teacher Appreciation Week, we take the time to show our gratitude for all that they do. “Teachers are asked to do one of the most challenging and important jobs we have in this country. They play a vital role in the development of our nation’s children, pushing them to reach their potential and nurturing them along the way. They must hold high expectations for all students while providing support for the needs and unique learning styles of up to 40 children in their classroom at a time. “In Congress, I am doing all that I can to ensure that our nation’s schools are getting the funding that they need to be successful and that every child has an opportunity to get a high quality education. If we are going to tackle the achievement gap, raise our high school graduation rates, and make our next generation college and career ready, it will be thanks to the work of outstanding teachers who lead the way. “As a former student, teacher and parent of children who attended Minnesota schools, I have seen firsthand the passion and dedication that teachers in Minnesota bring to their work. They have my highest respect, admiration, and support. “Thank you for supporting your students, your communities, and our country.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
05.03.2014	Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement mourning the death of former Minnesota Congressman James L. Oberstar, 79, who represented Minnesota’s 8th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1975 to 2011. “I am deeply saddened by Jim’s passing. Jim Oberstar was a friend, a mentor, and a public servant of epic stature. Throughout his career Jim’s commitment to improving America’s transportation system saved thousands of lives, kept millions of Americans on the job, and strengthened Minnesota’s and our nation’s economy. Most of all, Jim Oberstar was a truly wonderful man who was filled with joy and compassion.” “I wish to extend my sincere condolences to Jim’s wife, Jean, his children, grandchildren, and all of his former staff, especially Bill Richard, Congressman Oberstar’s long-time friend and chief of staff.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
05.02.2014	Washington, DC – In response to a new report released this week by the Pentagon on sexual assault in the military that indicates a 50% increase in reported assaults over the 2013, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “The findings in this week’s report expose a sexual assault crisis in the Armed Forces that is profoundly disturbing and a threat to national security. While some may attempt to portray the spike in reported cases of sexual assault as evidence that new reporting measures are working, what this data really shows is a wide spread problem of sexual predators in uniform. “Reporting acts of sexual assault and sexual violence in the military is merely the first step. What is most important is justice for victims and the toughest possible penalties for perpetrators. Of the more than 5,000 cases of sexual assault that were reported last year, fewer than 500 went to trial. This is unacceptable. “The process for dealing with rape and sexual assault after they are reported remains broken. There is still no clear path within this current system towards justice and restitution for the victims, or accountability for the attackers. We must take these cases outside of the military chain of command in order to ensure a transparent process that works towards justice for all victims of these heinous crimes. “I will continue to do all that I can in my role on the appropriations committee to provide the resources necessary to address this epidemic of sexual violence. Secretary Hagel and Chairman Dempsey have personally assured me this issue is a top priority for them. I intend to hold them and all military commanders accountable.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
04.30.2014	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement concerning the National Basketball Association's actions against Los Angeles Clippers owner Donald Sterling: "The National Basketball Association is setting the standard for dealing with intolerance, racism and hate speech in professional sports. They showed that when a wealthy franchise owner promotes racist ideas a league and its other owners can act swiftly to condemn that behavior. It is my hope that the National Football League and its owners will follow suit and do everything in their power to ensure that the racist name of their Washington franchise is changed. The NFL and its owners have the ability to influence that change. I call on them to follow the lead of the NBA and use that ability to force a name change for their Washington franchise."
04.10.2014	Washington, DC – In advance of the House of Representatives vote on the Ryan budget, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “Since Congress has already passed a law setting budget levels for 2015, the Ryan budget proposal is a total distraction. “We have a lot of work to do – investing in infrastructure to put people back to work, ensuring our children get a quality education and protecting our seniors’ retirement. The Ryan budget is the Republican vision for our country and it does none of that. It increases tax breaks for the wealthy, abandons America’s middle class, punishes the poor and does nothing to move our country forward.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
04.08.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement on the passing of former Minnesota State Rep. Steve Smith (R): “I had the privilege of serving with Steve throughout my time in the Minnesota House of Representatives. I will remember him as someone who was unafraid to work with his colleagues across the aisle and who stood up to protect the working people of Minnesota. We did not agree on everything, but he brought civility to our debates in the House. He will be missed greatly, and my thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends as they remember his life.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
04.02.2014	Washington, DC – In response to today’s decision by the Supreme Court in McCutcheon vs. FEC, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “Today’s decision is just the latest example of this Supreme Court politically empowering wealthy super-elites at the expense of a healthy democracy for the rest of America. Just as government policies that favor the wealthy lead to excessive income inequality, this court decision guarantees political inequality for tens of millions of American voters who only have their one vote, not millions of dollars to shape an election’s outcome. Granting the wealthiest donors the limitless opportunity to dominate our electoral process and drown out all other voices is corrosive and destructive to our democracy.” ####
04.02.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI) released his budget framework for Fiscal Year 2015. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response: “Let’s be clear, Congress already passed a law four months ago establishing a budget target for 2015. The plan released by Chairman Paul Ryan is not a real budget, but a political manifesto to appeal to an audience of Tea Party extremists and Obama-haters – the House Republican majority. “I would expect every House Republican to vote for this Ryan blueprint that abandons America’s middle class and punishes the poor. Democrats will vote against it. The American people will then have a clear contrast and choice about the very different directions each party wants to take our country in the future.” ####
03.25.2014	Washington, DC – Dan Snyder, the owner of the NFL’s Washington football team, released a letter last night which continued to ignore calls to change his team’s racist name while announcing a public relations gambit targeting Native Americans. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response: “For almost eighty years the National Football League and its Washington franchise have exploited a racist Indian caricature, turning it into a billion dollar brand while completely ignoring the needs of real Native American children, families, and elders. “Now, team owner Dan Snyder wants to keep profiting from his team’s racist brand and use those profits to attempt to buy the silence of Native Americans with a foundation that is equal parts public relations scheme and tax deduction. “The NFL and its Washington franchise’s legacy of exploitation of Native American identity is real as has been noted by tribal leaders, national Native American organizations, journalists, and Members of Congress. Dan Snyder should immediately change the racist name of his NFL team and then commit a portion of his profits to addressing the issues facing Native American communities across the country.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee.She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
03.13.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) and 30 of her colleagues in the United States House of Representatives released a letter to the women of Afghanistan pledging their support for policies and programs that empower women and girls in the country. The letter was issued just weeks before the election of a new president in Afghanistan. “Over the last 13 years, Afghan society has been completely transformed. In 2001, women had no rights, were prohibited from attending school or holding public office, and had almost no access to basic health care. They were prisoners in their own country,” said Representative McCollum. “Today, Afghan women are helping to build their country’s future. Girls represent 40% of the children in primary school and 28% of the seats in parliament are held by women.” “These changes have had a remarkable positive impact on Afghan society, but the gains women have made are still new and fragile. It is important that these gains are protected and that we prevent a step back into the dark ages for the women of Afghanistan.” “Empowering women around the world is good for families, communities and countries. Today, the women of Afghanistan can play a powerful role in the development of their country. My colleagues and I recognize the extraordinary strides that they have made already. We stand ready to support them as they work to advance their rights and move their country forward.” ####
03.07.2014	Washington, DC – One year ago today, President Barack Obama signed the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (P.L. 113-4). Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement on the anniversary: “It is heartbreaking that domestic and sexual violence still plague so many women and families in this country. I was proud to have language adopted in the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act that provided Tribal nations with additional tools to ensure the safety of Native women and children. The bill also included my provision to address and prevent child marriage in developing nations. “Crimes of violence against women and girls hurt not only the victims, but their families and their communities. A year ago, we took a big step in the right direction but our work is not done yet. We must do more to ensure that the women who do so much for our communities and our nation are safe from violence and harm.” ####
03.05.2014	Washington, DC – Yesterday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) hosted a meeting between the City of New Brighton and the U.S. Army to attempt to resolve differences related to the Army’s future funding obligations for treatment and de-contamination of the City of New Brighton’s groundwater. Attending the meeting were New Brighton Mayor Dave Jacobsen, City Manager Dean Lotter, and the city’s legal counsel. The Army was also represented at the meeting. In a 1988 litigation settlement agreement between the City of New Brighton and the federal government, the Army accepted responsibility for contaminating city’s groundwater with trichloroethylene (TCE), a known carcinogen[1], originating from the Twin Cities Army Ammunition Plant (TCAAP). Since that settlement agreement the federal government has paid the city to operate the New Brighton Contaminated Groundwater Recovery System (NBCGRS) to eliminate TCE from drinking water. In 1992, the Army paid $17 million to New Brighton to operate the NBCGRS for twenty-years. Those funds are expected to be exhausted in July 2015 and the parties are now engaged in negotiations regarding future federal funding to operate the NBCGRS. The Army’s obligation to pay for groundwater treatment is expected to continue for many decades into the future. “The families consuming New Brighton’s water are my constituents and the constituents of Mayor Jacobsen,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Ensuring the health and safety of every New Brighton resident who is consuming this water is my priority, it’s a priority for Sen. Klobuchar and Sen. Franken, as it is for the City and the Army. The City must be provided with the federal funds to operate the Contaminated Groundwater Recovery System, likely for generations to come. The Army must provide the City with those federal funds within the parameters of federal law set forth by Congress. It is my hope that the city and the Army will prioritize the safety of the people of New Brighton and come together to reach an agreement.” Rep. McCollum invited New Brighton and the Army together for a face-to-face meeting with to seek a negotiated agreement that could avoid costly taxpayer funded litigation. Representative McCollum's opening remarks from the meeting as prepared for delivery and a meeting agenda can be found below. #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and the Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus [1] EPA Classifies Trichloroethylene (TCE) as Human Carcinogen https://www.environmentalsafetyupdate.com/environmental-compliance/epa-classifies-trichloroethylene-tce-as-human-carcinogen/
03.03.2014	I am so pleased to be here to celebrate Losar with His Holiness the Dali Lama and our Minnesota Tibetan community. Your Holiness, welcome to Minnesota, it is an honor to have you here with us to say goodbye to the old year and start the new year. Your presence is historic for all of us gathered here today, So, allow me to congratulate the Tibetan American Federation of Minnesota for organizing and hosting today’s very special event. Thank you President Namgyal Dorgee.. The Federation is the heart of the Tibetan community in Minnesota and they have done important work in promoting education and social services to support the community’s children and families. It has been exciting for me to watch thousands of Tibetans practice and preserve your beautiful culture and traditions, while also becoming new Americans and contributing so much to Minnesota. I am proud to represent Tibetan Minnesotans in the United States Congress and to work to advance the issues that are important to you.. I know that His Holiness was recently in Washington DC.I was very happy to see that President Obama and His Holiness had the opportunity to meet.Next time His Holiness is in Washington,I would very much like for him to meet with us in Congress,where we have much to learn from his wisdom and teachings. In a world filled with too much violence, too much poverty,and too much suffering,people all around the world,and especially political leaders,have much to learn from the teachings of His Holiness. Our children – all of our children – deserve a better world. Filled with more peace, more hope, more opportunity..That is what I pray for and it is what we all must work for in this new year. Your Holiness, your commitment to peace, for the world and especially for the Tibetan people, is inspiring. To bring about peace, we must do more.This is especially true as we when we pray for the people of Tibet. The people of Tibet, including all of you in exile,have suffered far too long and far too much. It is my hope to continue to work with Tibetans,across Minnesota and across the world, to one day bring about a Tibet free of violence, free of religious persecution, and free of political and cultural repression. In other words,let us work for Tibet that is as peaceful as the Tibetan people.So today, as we celebrate Losar,let us begin anew in our own lives and to work to make the lives of all of our brothers and sisters around the world more peaceful and full of hope. Thank you for inviting me to share this special moment with you. Good bye to the old year and enjoy celebrating the new year. Your Holiness, thank you for honoring us with your presence and your blessings.
02.28.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement in recognition of Black History Month: “February is Black History Month, a time to reflect on the ways in which African-Americans have shaped our history and culture as a country. This year’s theme is “Civil Rights in America.” Prominent leaders in the African-American community have led the charge for civil rights and social justice throughout our history. Leaders like Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Roy Wilkins were at the forefront of progress on civil rights nationally, while great leaders like Matt Little, Katie McWatt and Nelly Stone Johnson worked locally in their communities in Minnesota for change. Minnesota’s own Hubert Humphrey worked to support many of those activists in their struggles for civil rights in his role as Vice President. “This year represents the 50th anniversary of our country’s seminal civil rights legislation. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 outlawed discrimination against Americans based upon race, gender, sex or religion and its passage was largely the result of advocacy and organizing by leaders like Dr. King, Rosa Parks, Roy Wilkins and my colleague Rep. John Lewis. “There is still more to be done to ensure that the civil rights of all Americans are protected and that the work of these great African-American civil rights leaders continues today. Our country has faced recent efforts to roll back voting rights protections, and still struggles to achieve an end to workplace discrimination. “The fact that enormous disparities still exist in health, education and economic opportunity for people of color is unacceptable. We must commit ourselves to ending these disparities. “As February ends, we remember those in the African-American community who stood up for civil rights, equality and justice, we must rededicate ourselves to honoring their vision by fighting for equality and justice in our own communities.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
02.26.2014	Washington, DC – Today, President Obama visited Union Depot in St. Paul, Minnesota and held that project up as a model for his vision for transportation in our country. Congresswoman Betty McCollum joined the President in St. Paul and released the following statement regarding his visit: “The President’s visit here today represents a great victory for all of the tireless champions for transit here in the east metro. This is a great day for St. Paul and for all of us who worked so hard to transform the Union Depot. I am proud of my role in the Depot’s restoration and sharing our success with President Obama just months before trains begin to run here again was truly an honor. “Working together, we succeeded in securing $243 million dollars from federal, state, and local funding sources. This project put thousands of Minnesotans back to work during its construction and helped those families put food on the table and pay their mortgages when times were tough. The Union Depot restoration has garnered the support of the business community, labor leaders, and environmental groups. And now that the project is complete, Union Depot will serve as the crown jewel of transportation in the state of Minnesota and provide a critical upgrade to our region’s infrastructure. “We had a vision in Minnesota that an investment in transportation and infrastructure could build a broad coalition of support and would represent a smart investment in our community. To see that vision become a reality, and to share that success with President Obama today was such a joy for me. I am encouraged to hear that the President wants to continue this investment in transportation and infrastructure across the country. Anyone looking to see the benefit those investments can have on a community need look no further than Union Depot in St. Paul, Minnesota.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
02.25.2014	Washington, DC – Tomorrow, Congresswoman Betty McCollum will join President Barack Obama at Union Depot in Saint Paul as he gives remarks about the importance of investing in transit and infrastructure to create jobs in our country. In advance of this visit, Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “As a young girl, I would go to Union Depot to take the train to Montana to visit my grandfather. At the time, the Depot was a bustling center of transit and commerce that connected the state of Minnesota to the rest of the region. After train service ceased in the early 1970s, the state of the building deteriorated, and when I toured the Depot shortly after being elected to Congress in 2000, it was in disrepair. It had been overrun by pigeons, windows were broken and shuttered, and the space was cold and largely abandoned, except for a few empty mail carts. “When I think back to that day and that tour, I can hardly believe how we were able to transform Union Depot into what it is today – a bright, modern multi-modal transit hub that is serving passengers every day on hundreds of regional and intercity buses, and will soon welcome rail service on Amtrak as well as light rail. I was proud to take the lead role in Minnesota’s federal delegation in securing the $124.3 million in federal funding that has returned this iconic Minnesota landmark to its place as a thriving center for transit and business that provides a great service to our community and supports thousands of jobs. “Former Senator Norm Coleman was a tireless advocate for this project during his time as Mayor of Saint Paul and in the U.S. Senate. My former colleague in the House, Transportation Committee Chairman Jim Oberstar believed in this project and it is a part of his vast legacy of transportation improvements across the country. The Ramsey County Board, The Saint Paul Area Chamber of Commerce, citizen members of the LOCATE Task Force, the Metropolitan Council and Saint Paul Mayor Chris Coleman have been supportive and proactive local partners and without their fantastic work the Depot would not be what it is today. “Most importantly, President Obama has been a champion for this project. Although federal funding for this project first began before he took office, it was the President’s vision to invest in Union Depot as a part of his American Reinvestment and Recovery Act in 2009 that made completion of the project possible. The Depot is now open for business, and has created more than 3,000 jobs. Bus service has commenced and we are just months away from restarting rail service. The President’s vision for investment in transit projects has paid off for Saint Paul, Minnesota and our entire Twin Cities region. I look forward to welcoming the President to Union Depot tomorrow, so that he may see the immense value that his leadership on this project has brought to our community.” Union Depot is a newly re-opened multi –modal transportation hub in downtown Saint Paul. Thanks to nearly $125 million in federal funding that Congresswoman McCollum led the charge to secure, the Depot is now a key hub for more than 300 buses with Amtrak and light rail transit service to Minneapolis set to begin in the coming months. Of that $125 million in federal funding, $40 million came via a Federal Railroad Administration High-Speed Intercity Passenger Rail Program grant created by the Appropriations Committee, on which Congresswoman McCollum serves. The Union Depot project has created over 3,000 jobs since construction began in 2010. Construction was completed on time and on budget in December 2012. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
02.11.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement today in response to the passage of Republican legislation to cut Medicare payments to doctors and hospitals: “The Republican plan to cut Medicare payments to hospitals and doctors in order to replace cuts to future military pensions is wrong. “I support restoring the pensions of military members and those of federal workers – all of whom serve to advance our nation’s safety, security and well-being. However, any plan to do so by shifting the cuts onto other critical services for our communities will not win my support. “Republicans have failed to accomplish much while leading the House, and their focus on legislation designed to look good in campaign ads rather than move this country forward does nothing to change that fact.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
02.11.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement today in response to the news that Republican Leadership would bring a clean bill to raise our nation’s debt ceiling up for a vote: “I am glad to see that we have rejected the Tea Party brinksmanship that has become common on this issue in recent years, and will have a vote on a clean bill to raise the debt ceiling. A clean bill will have my support. For the sake of our economy, we must reject the idea that our country’s fiscal security is something for either party to use as a bargaining chip. Paying our nation’s bills is the responsible thing to do and I urge all of my colleagues, Democrats and Republicans, to join me in voting yes.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
02.04.2014	Washington, DC – Joan Mondale, the wife of former Vice President Walter Mondale, passed away this evening at the age of 83. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement: “Joan Mondale was an incredible woman and Minnesota was blessed to have her leadership. Her advocacy for the arts was remarkable and she was one of our country’s most impassioned champions of culture. My thoughts and prayers are with her family, friends, and all those she inspired as she inspired me.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
01.29.2014	Washington, DC – In response to President Obama’s State of the Union Address, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “Tonight, the President spoke eloquently about the importance of creating opportunity for all Americans. I was encouraged by his vision and I share his dedication to improving the economic prospects of middle, lower and working class families. But as promising as his vision was, it means nothing without action. I will continue to do all that I can in Congress to fulfill the vision for prosperity and opportunity for all Americans, and I urge the President to act where Congress is unable to.” Congresswoman McCollum was joined at the address by Clarence Hightower, the Executive Director of the Community Action Partnership of Ramsey and Washington Counties. Mr. Hightower’s organization and over 1,000 others like it around the country receive federal funding from Community Service Block Grants (CSBG) to do community based anti-poverty work. Congresswoman McCollum is the Democratic lead on H.R. 3854, the Economic Opportunity Act of 2014, a bipartisan bill reauthorizing CSBG funding. President Obama and the First Lady also hosted guests from Minnesota’s fourth district for the speech. John Sorrano is the CEO of Punch Pizza, a St. Paul business who recently instituted a minimum wage of $10/hr for employees at each of their locations. He joined the First Lady and Dr. Jill Biden in their box for the address. President Obama urged more American business owners to “follow John’s lead and do what you can to raise your employees’ wages.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
01.28.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement on the agreement that was reached on a five-year farm bill: “The agricultural economy is critical to Minnesota’s economy, so this bipartisan farm bill agreement will have my vote when it reaches the House floor. This agreement brings much needed stability to farmers, agribusiness, and consumers which is long overdue. “A farm bill is also crucial to efforts to fight hunger and poverty. The bill reauthorizes the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and rejects the Republican proposal to hurt millions of hungry families, children, and seniors by cutting $40 billion from SNAP. The SNAP cuts that are in this bill will not affect Minnesota, but why take food away from any low-income American? “This bill represents a bipartisan compromise at a time when Congress rarely compromises. Minnesota needs this bill and Rep. Collin Peterson (D-MN) deserves tremendous credit for his dedication and toughness to fight for Minnesota’s interests. Collin stood strong and firm throughout this very difficult process. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
01.17.2014	This weekend, we will take time to remember the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. As one of our country’s greatest organizers, leaders and advocates for social justice, King dedicated his life to fighting for equality and opportunity for all Americans. As we remember Dr. King’s legacy, we must also continue to pursue his vision. We continue to see disparities in the incomes, health outcomes and educational attainment of people in this country based on their race and economic status. Fifty years since President Johnson declared the War on Poverty, we are still fighting to address the root causes of poverty in America. These causes are directly linked to the work of Dr. King. The unwavering resolve with which Dr. King fought for change should be an inspiration to us all. He once said, “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere…whatever affects us directly, affects all indirectly.” These words should serve to guide all of us who work towards justice and equality.
01.17.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in response to remarks made today by President Obama regarding reforms to the National Security Agency’s (NSA) surveillance practices: “Over the recent months I have been troubled by the near daily media revelations detailing the NSA’s expansive and almost limitless powers to conduct surveillance and mine personal data that threatens civil liberties. Violating the basic civil liberties of Americans and allies around the world must not be tolerated. Limited surveillance is necessary to ensure our nation’s security, which is why I support President Obama’s decision to make needed reforms and temper the worst NSA excesses. “Today’s proposed reforms are a start but they are not enough. Congress must demand greater oversight of the NSA’s actions and accountability for the billions of taxpayer dollars being spent. The privacy and civil liberties of the American people must never be victimized by the secret powers of the NSA.” Congresswoman McCollum has been a staunch opponent of bulk collection of citizen data throughout her time in Congress. She is a co-sponsor of both the USA FREEDOM Act (H.R. 3361) and the Surveillance State Repeal Act (H.R. 2818). She has continually voted to end warrantless surveillance of American’s communications records and against reauthorizations of the Patriot Act. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
01.15.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement on the Consolidated Appropriations Act, Fiscal Year 2014 (H.R. 3547): “Today’s omnibus appropriations bill is an important step forward to fund the federal government and meet the needs of the American people. It is far from a perfect bill, but it does blunt many of the worst cuts from sequestration that have needlessly harmed too many families and communities. This bill provides a minimal level of funding for health care, transportation, education, protecting our environment and national security. However, meeting the ongoing challenges facing our country will require real investment. “Passage of this bill today signifies a victory for common-sense from members of both parties who are committed to sustaining the important role of the federal government. As we begin work on the appropriations bills for fiscal year 2015, I look forward to working with my colleagues to fight for the priorities that are important to Minnesota families.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
01.14.2014	McCollum is Lead Democrat on BipartisanCommunity Economic Opportunity Act of 2014 Over 1,000 agencies nationwide serve 16 million individuals Washington, DC – Last night, Congresswoman Betty McCollum joined Congressmen Mike Fitzpatrick (R-PA) and Jim Costa (D-CA) to introduce the Community Economic Opportunity Act of 2014 (H.R. 3854), a bipartisan bill reauthorizing the Community Service Block Grant (CSBG). For 50 years, community action agencies have been among our most effective tools in fighting poverty, and today’s legislation ensures that will continue to be the case for generations to come. H.R. 3854 reauthorizes funding, establishes performance benchmarks, creates greater accountability, and further leverages private partnerships. This legislation authorizes $850 million for over 1,000 agencies nationwide serving about 16 million individuals. Community action agencies help coordinate $14 billion in federal, state, local and private sector resources. In Minnesota, 26 community action agencies and 11 tribal governments serve 650,000 people statewide. “Community action agencies have been one of our country’s greatest assets in the war on poverty,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Serving about 16 million low-income individuals each year, these agencies provide access to critical services such as job training, nutrition support, financial counseling, and early education. By empowering communities to make choices on a local level about how to best serve their families, each community is able to invest in the support services they want and need. This reauthorization builds on the successes of agencies in Minnesota and throughout United States, but also includes needed reforms to ensure federal dollars are being spent effectively. I am proud to lead the push for reauthorizing these critical federal funds and will do everything I can to ensure passage of this legislation.” “The Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) funding is a vital part of Minnesota’s safety net,” said Minnesota Department of Human Services Commissioner Lucinda Jesson. “Not only does it help support people’s basic needs, but perhaps more importantly, it offers ladders up and out of poverty for thousands of Minnesotans. I want to thank Rep. McCollum for her leadership on behalf of this critical program.” “Reauthorization of the Community Service Block Grant is critical to local communities throughout Minnesota,” said Arnie Anderson, Executive Director of the Minnesota Community Action Partnership. “As go-to agencies across the state, Community Action Agencies use CSBG funding as the bedrock for investing in local community development and working with families to achieve self-sufficiency. A good measure of the value is that in the past decade, Minnesotans from all walks of life donated more than 18 million hours of service to help their neighbors through their local Community Action Agencies.” “The Community Services Block Grant (CSBG) funding provides some of the most critical funds for my agency’s communities,” added Clarence Hightower, Executive Director of Community Action Partnership of Ramsey and Washington Counties. “Without a doubt, they are the most efficient and effective tool I have at my disposal to reduce poverty and its impacts in Ramsey and Washington Counties. These dollars are targeted at innovative strategies that seek to exchange contemporary problems with life-altering opportunities for the most needy in our community. With the guidance of a governing board representing those we serve as well as partner organizations, we are poised to deliver the right mix of services to the 67,000 individuals we served last year. Among these services are Head Start, Weatherization, Energy Assistance and Financial Literacy. I am pleased to support the role that Congresswoman Betty McCollum played in shepherding this important effort to the finishing line. She has been and remains a key partner in our efforts to reduce poverty in our city.” "Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum has demonstrated how a leader dedicated to creating opportunity for every family, in every American community, can build a coalition with all others who share in the goal of ending poverty. The Community Economic Opportunity Act will be the foundation for a modern, high-impact assault on the causes of poverty by building on the lessons learned in the past 50 years and deploying 21st century tools and imagination in the service of our most vulnerable communities and their residents,” said David Bradley, Executive Director, National Community Action Foundation. In 2012, Minnesota Community Action Agencies: - Helped 10,317 children participate in preschool activities. - Provided child care for 8,103 families in Minnesota - Obtained immunizations, medical and dental care for 10,548 children - Helped 3,568 Minnesotans find jobs Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
01.08.2014	Washington, DC – Fifty years ago today, President Lyndon B Johnson declared an “unconditional war on poverty in America” in his State of the Union address to Congress. In honor of this anniversary, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “Fifty years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson told the American people that the wealthiest nation on earth could not afford to allow any of its people to suffer in poverty. He spoke eloquently of the need to take a comprehensive approach to a national problem, by working to improve not only incomes and employment but education, literacy, and opportunity as well. President Johnson’s vision inspired our country to take meaningful steps to address this problem, which led to the establishment of many programs that still serve us well today. From the creation of our nation’s first food stamp program to combat hunger to the establishment of Community Action Agencies, the echoes of President Johnson’s words continue to be felt in communities across our nation. “While President Johnson’s leadership resulted in a profound change for generations of American children, families, and seniors, our country still must confront the reality that poverty and income inequality persist and are growing. We continue to see great disparities in wealth, health, and well-being in communities of color, rural and urban communities, and for too many children and seniors. Our society continues to struggle with making quality education accessible to all and ensuring that working families benefit from economic growth. “In the face of progress that has been strong but incomplete, the Republican agenda in this Congress has been to roll back or eliminate some of the most successful anti-poverty initiatives enacted by President Johnson. Republicans have voted for devastating cuts to nutrition support and proposed to change Medicare into a voucher system. For Republicans to want to slash nutritional assistance for the hungry, ignore the crisis facing the long-term unemployed, and deny affordable healthcare coverage to the sick and uninsured is not only undermining the “war on poverty,” but in fact has the effect of a declaration of war on the poorest and most vulnerable Americans. That is unconscionable. “Many of the opportunities to escape hunger, poverty, and illness that were born out of President Johnson’s vision are still alive today – but many are seeing their funding diminish and are coming under attack. “As we begin our work in this second session of the 113th Congress, the battle against hunger, poverty, unemployment, illness, and suffering among too many of our fellow citizens continues. We must remember the roadmap President Johnson laid out and learn from our past successes and failures. We all must continue to fight to eliminate poverty and continue to invest to create the hope, opportunity, and dignity that all Americans deserve.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
01.07.2014	Washington, DC – Today, Minnesota native Shezanne Cassim was released from prison in the United Arab Emirates and is returning home to Minnesota after serving nine months in prison for posting a comedy video on YouTube. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) has been in touch with the Cassim family and worked with the State Department towards a resolution to this case. The State Department informed her that Shezzane Cassim was en route to Minnesota on a flight this morning. Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement: “I am thrilled that the ordeal Shez has had to endure is now over and he is returning safely to Minnesota. It remains unconscionable to me that UAE officials imprisoned him for nearly a year for the ‘crime’ of making a spoof video. “Today is a day of great relief for Shez and his family and I wish them all the best as they reunite. I hope to have the opportunity to speak with Shez about his experience in the coming weeks.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
01.06.2014	
12.11.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement regarding the bipartisan budget conference committee compromise on the FY2014 and FY2015 federal budgets. “This budget agreement is a bipartisan compromise which puts the needs of the country ahead of the politics of shutdown and governing by crisis. Sequestration is blunted, cuts to mandatory programs that serve children, seniors, people with disabilities, and vulnerable families were avoided, and regular order in the appropriations process will be reestablished. All of this means stability for our military, the economy, and families. It has been hard finding common ground between progressive Democrats and Tea Party Republicans at the negotiating table. This deal is funded in part by a new airline passenger tax and squeezing more out of federal employees, which I don’t like. But it avoids the prospect of another government shutdown and brings rationality and stability back to the federal government. It has my strong support.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
12.10.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement regarding the imprisonment of Mr. Shezanne Cassim of Woodbury, MN in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for posting a spoof YouTube video. At a time when Dubai is hosting an international film festival and was recently awarded the Expo 2020 World Fair, the imprisonment of an American and his friends for posting a satirical video on-line exposes the UAE’s intellectual repression and disdain for free speech. “It is appalling that Shezanne Cassim continues to be imprisoned in the UAE for the crime of posting an innocent video on YouTube. The authorities of the UAE should release him from prison immediately. This incident exposes the fact that intellectual freedom and free speech, which are basic human values, do not exist in the UAE regardless of how many Western businesses and American universities are seduced by petrol dollars to locate there.” “Americans in the UAE beware – your words and ideas can get you imprisoned indefinitely.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
12.05.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum released the following statement on former South African President Nelson Mandela, who passed away today at age 95: “With the death of Nelson Mandela the world has lost an icon for justice and a true freedom fighter. President Mandela’s courage, determination, and profound sacrifice inspired not only Africans, but a global generation committed to abolishing apartheid. I wish to extend my deepest condolences to the people of South Africa for their loss which is truly a loss for the human race.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
12.02.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement on World AIDS Day, Sunday December 1st. “The AIDS epidemic has taken countless lives and millions of men and women around the world continue to live with this disease. There have been fantastic advancements in pursuit of a cure, thanks in large part to the work of advocates dedicated to ending this epidemic. Today, we remember those we have lost to this awful disease and honor the work of those continuing to fight for a cure. “I am proud of my work in Congress to pass legislation that will help those affected by HIV/AIDS get the treatment they need. Thanks to the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies can no longer deny coverage due to those with HIV/AIDS because of their pre-existing condition. Insurers cannot put a cap on the lifetime benefits that those struggling with HIV/AIDS can receive and Medicaid expansion will allow more people access to better care.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
11.25.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-D) released the following statement regarding the agreement on Iran’s nuclear program that was reached over the weekend: “I applaud President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry, along with our international partners, for negotiating a significant step towards peacefully achieving a comprehensive nuclear agreement with Iran. With on-going sanctions in place, improved verification, and real accountability demanded from the Iran regime, this initial deal is a triumph for engagement and tough diplomacy. Getting to a comprehensive agreement will be difficult, but this deal allows Iran to demonstrate to the world that they reject the pursuit of nuclear weapons.” In July, the U.S. House passed additional tough sanctions on Iran (H.R. 850) despite opposition from the Obama Administration. Congresswoman McCollum was one of 20 members of Congress to vote against the legislation citing its potential to harm on-going diplomatic negotiations between the P5+1 and Iran. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
11.25.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) released the following statement in recognition of the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against Women: “Violence in all forms – emotional, physical, and financial – is a real fear for women of all ages, races, sexualities, and nationalities. It is unacceptable that one in three women worldwide will be the victim of violence in their lifetime. I am proud of my efforts in Congress to keep women safe, but we must do more. I will continue to fight for the rights and safety of all women in the fourth district, in Minnesota, and around the world.” Congresswoman McCollum was a proud supporter of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act. She championed language included in the law to require the Administration to develop comprehensive strategy to address child marriage globally and ensure additional protections for Native American women. She also introduced legislation (H.Res. 213) calling for the creation of a Special Committee on Sexual Assault and Abuse in the Armed Forces to protect the women serving our country in the armed forces. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
11.20.2013	Washington D.C. – Today, Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) and Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), co-chairs of the Congressional Native American Caucus, participated in a ceremony today that honored Native American code talkers with the Congressional Gold Medal of Honor. Medals were presented to members of 25 tribes today, and additional tribal nations will be honored as their medals are finalized. The Representatives released a joint statement in honor of the historic occasion: “Today we honor the great bravery and skill of Native American military heroes,” said Congressman Cole, who is a member of the Chickasaw Nation. “Over the course of American history, Native Americans have demonstrated outstanding valor on the battlefield, and today we remember the vital role they played as code talkers during World War I and World War II. These individuals embraced their cultural heritage and used it to prevent highly-sensitive wartime messages from being intercepted by the enemy. Because of their service and unique contributions, countless lives were saved and victory was claimed more quickly by the Allies. This ceremony inspires great pride in the Native American hearts, including my own. But for all Americans, it should serve as a reminder of true bravery and sacrifice.” “These American heroes are shining examples of the long and proud history of Native Americans’ military service to our country,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Many Americans are familiar with the story of the Navajo code talkers, but today we recognize the contributions of veterans from 33 tribal nations, including Lakota and Ojibwe speakers. Using the languages of their people, these brave soldiers created unbreakable codes that aided in the Allied victory and saved the lives of many of their brothers-in-arms. Upon returning home, the service of the code talkers was kept secret to protect those programs. As a result, many loyal veterans faced the hardship of never being able to tell their families and communities the details of their valiant service. Today, we offer this long-overdue honor in recognition of their extraordinary contributions to our Nation.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
11.08.2013	St. Paul, MN – Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement in commemoration of Veterans Day, which falls on Monday, November 11. On Veterans Day she will be speaking at the State of Minnesota Veterans Day program in Inver Grove Heights. “Veterans Day serves as a reminder of the enormous sacrifices that brave men and women have made for the ideals and beliefs that all Americans value. As our men and women in uniform continue to return home from combat duty, today is an opportunity to give thanks to them, their families, and 22 million veterans. It is also a day to come together as Americans to pay a special tribute to those who have made the ultimate sacrifice while serving our country in the name of freedom around the world. “On the battlefield, the U.S. Armed Forces pledge to leave no man or woman behind. As a nation, it must be our promise that when they return home, we leave no veteran behind. We must act to care for our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, Guardsmen and Reservists, both abroad and at home -- ensuring that all of them receive the highest level of care and compensation they have so bravely earned serving this great nation. This is a commitment to which I hold fast on Veterans Day and every day.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
10.23.2013	For Immediate Release: October 23, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives approved an amendment by Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Mike Kelly (R-PA) to help slow the spread of Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River. Their amendment was added by voice vote to the Water Resource Reform Development Act (H.R. 3080). “Asian carp have the ability to destroy ecosystems and devastate recreational areas,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Local and state officials are trying to tackle Asian carp, but they can’t do it alone. This amendment directs federal agencies to work in partnership with city, state, and regional efforts to confront the spread of Asian carp.” “I was glad to work with Congresswoman McCollum to pass today’s critical amendment for the sake of protecting millions of Americans from the spread of Asian Carp. Our bipartisan amendment will help stop this dangerous invasive species from devastating the Great Lakes region and crippling a $7 billion commercial and recreational fishing industry, along with all the jobs and livelihoods that go with it. This important fight showcases how both parties and different levels of government can work together and is emblematic of how Americans want their government to run,” said Congressman Kelly. The McCollum - Kelly amendment is similar to the bipartisan Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act (H.R. 358), which establishes a coordinated effort to reduce the spread of Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River. The Senate version of Water Resource Development Act contains a similar amendment to confront the threat of Asian carp. In May 2013, the Senate unanimously passed that amendment, which was offered by Senators Brown (D-OH), Toomey (R-PA), and Casey (D-PA). Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
10.16.2013	For Immediate Release: October 16, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov GOP Tea Party Irresponsible Gamesmanship Has Harmed Millions of American Families and Put U.S. Global Economic Leadership at Risk Washington, DC – If Republican leadership in the U.S. House allows an up or down vote, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) will support the bipartisan agreement announced by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) to end the shutdown of the federal government and prevent a default on U.S. debt obligations. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “I intend to vote today for the bipartisan Senate plan that puts federal employees back to work, protects American families from the catastrophic economic consequences of a default, and keeps ObamaCare intact. The end of this manufactured crisis, that has hurt so many people, is a victory for common-sense Democrats and Republicans who are willing to put our country ahead of political party. I commend President Obama, Senator Reid, and Leader Pelosi for their steadfast resolve and determination to carry out their constitutional responsibilities in the face of unprecedented congressional recklessness.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ###
10.07.2013	Washington D.C.– On Monday, October 7th, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) announced that her staff will continue to hold monthly constituent service hours in Stillwater and Woodbury city halls despite the federal government shutdown. Congresswoman McCollum’s Saint Paul office also remains open Monday through Friday, 8:30am to 5:30pm. “The federal government shutdown is having real effects on Minnesotans. Thousands of federal employees in our state are furloughed or working without paychecks, and private citizens are confronting the unfortunate challenge of navigating federal agencies hobbled by this unnecessary shutdown. “As a Member of Congress, I have a Constitutional responsibility to make sure the needs of my constituents are heard. My staff remains on the job and available to assist residents of the Fourth Congressional District. I thank them for their passionate commitment to public service, especially while they and all other federal employees are not being paid. “The House Republican government shutdown puts our economy at risk and is needlessly harming millions of Americans. I call on Speaker Boehner and the rest of the House GOP to stop this reckless and damaging act and allow the House to vote on a clean Continuing Resolution that puts the American people ahead of partisan gamesmanship.” Congresswoman McCollum holds monthly constituent service office hours on the 2nd Tuesday of each month from 9:00-11:00 AM at Stillwater City Hall and the 3rd Tuesday of each month at Woodbury City Hall. Residents are welcome to contact Congresswoman McCollum’s office (651) 224-9191 to schedule an appointment or check out https://www.mccollum.house.gov for more information. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
10.02.2013	For Immediate Release: October 2, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) signed on as a cosponsor to the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act (H.R. 15), a comprehensive immigration reform bill introduced by Rep. Joe Garcia (D-FL). “Millions of families and employers are looking to Congress for a fair and balanced approach to fixing our nation's immigration system. This legislation represents a bipartisan compromise and provides needed reforms, including a pathway to citizenship. I urge House Republican leadership to work with Democrats to move the country forward on this issue, in addition to ending the GOP government shutdown.” This legislation contains many of the same provisions to reform our broken immigration process as the bipartisan Senate comprehensive immigration reform bill. The Senate passed its bill in June 2013 by a vote of 68 to 32. H.R. 15 also includes provisions from the bipartisan McCaul-Thompson border security bill, in place of the Corker-Hoeven provisions in the Senate bill. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
10.02.2013	Co-Sponsors Bill to Retroactively Pay Federal Employees Impacted by GOP Shutdown of the Government WASHINGTON, DC -- Today, Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), in a letter to the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives, voluntarily requested that she not receive her Congressional salary until the federal government shutdown has ended and regular government operations are restored. With the federal shutdown or “lapse in appropriations,” more than 800,000 federal employees have been furloughed. Other federal employees and Congressional staff will be working, but not receiving paychecks. Rep. McCollum strongly opposes the Republican shutdown of the government and supports the immediate passage of legislation to fund the government without policy riders to defund or delay the Affordable Care Act. In addition to not taking a paycheck during the Republican government shutdown, Rep. McCollum announced today that she is co-sponsoring the “Federal Employee Retroactive Pay Fairness Act,” sponsored by Rep. Jim Moran (D-VA). This is a bill to ensure all federal employees receive pay for the duration of a federal government shutdown, regardless of their furlough status. “The Republicans shut down the federal government, and now millions of Americans, including federal employees and citizens in need of government services, have been hurt. I will not take my salary until Congress opens the government and puts federal employees back to work. But these dedicated public servants should not be punished because the Tea Party’s ideological crusade against ObamaCare. They deserve to be paid retroactively and I will work to make sure they are.”
10.01.2013	For Immediate Release: October 1, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov “GOP extremists have succeeded at holding government and the American people hostage” Washington, DC – Today, on the first day of the Republican shutdown of the federal government, Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “Today’s shutdown of the federal government is a manufactured political crisis. It has been inspired and executed by a Tea Party Republican faction that controls House leadership and refuses to fulfill the most basic function of Congress – to appropriate funds to ensure government operations continue.” “All along Democrats have worked for an honest and responsible solution to prevent a shutdown, including compromising to meet Republican sequestration funding levels in the continuing resolution. But that wasn’t enough for these GOP extremists who have now succeeded at holding the federal government and the American people hostage because of their obsession with destroying the Affordable Care Act.” “Let me be absolutely clear: I strongly support the Affordable Care Act; I stand with President Obama to ensure affordable quality, healthcare is available for every American; and gutting ObamaCare is non-negotiable!” “Unfortunately, this GOP shutdown will not end without citizens across the country – Democrats, Independents, and common-sense Republicans – taking action and rising up against the madness of a Republican Party dangerously out of control. The time for citizen engagement and action is now.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus.
09.20.2013	In letter to the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, the members highlighted the negative impact removing the “necessary provider” designation could have on rural health care and economies Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken, and Representatives Collin Peterson, Betty McCollum, Rick Nolan, and Tim Walz today urged the Medicare program to reject recommendations from the Office of Inspector General (OIG) that would hurt rural hospitals. In a letter to the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the members highlighted the negative impact removing the “necessary provider” designation for Critical Access Hospitals (CAH) that fail to meet the distance requirements could have on both rural health care and their economies. Approximately 71 of Minnesota’s 79 CAHs are at risk of losing their status if the necessary provider designation was eliminated, which could threaten their financial viability and potentially cause them to close or scale back their operations. “Minnesota has one of the nation’s leading health care delivery systems,” the members said in the letter. “Critical Access Hospitals are an essential component of this delivery system. We strongly oppose the OIG recommendation that the CMS seek legislative authority to remove the “necessary provider” designation for Critical Access Hospitals.” The full text of the letter is below: Marilyn B. Tavenner, AdministratorCenters for Medicare & Medicaid ServicesHubert H. Humphrey Bldg., Room 310G200 Independence Ave., SWWashington, DC 20201 Dear Administrator Tavenner: Minnesota has one of the nation’s leading health care delivery systems. Our state has dual challenges of a large geographic area and difficult winter weather conditions which make life-saving access to care in rural areas all the more important. Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs) are an essential component of this delivery system. We strongly oppose the Office of Inspector General (OIG) recommendation that the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) seek legislative authority to remove the “necessary provider” designation for Critical Access Hospitals (CAHs). As you know, states could designate hospitals that did not meet the federal 35-mile distance requirement as “necessary providers” before January 2006. Congress created the necessary provider status as a way to give states additional flexibility to ensure access to care in rural areas. Approximately 71 of Minnesota’s 79 CAHs are at risk of losing their status if necessary provider status were eliminated. This could certainly lead to hospital closures, which would devastate access to care for Medicare beneficiaries as well as other residents and the infrastructure of our rural communities. Minnesota’s CAHs are often the largest employer in their communities, attract a highly educated workforce and serve as a vital resource for other employers’ recruitment efforts. CAHs provide these benefits while struggling under nation-wide workforce shortages, financial pressures as a result of the sequester, and the costs associated with the increasing sophistication of medicine, to name a few. Proposed restrictions on CAH status will also indirectly and negatively impact hospitals with other federal designations, such as Sole Community Hospital status, that do not take into account nearby CAHs in their eligibility criteria. This is in recognition of the need for access to more sophisticated services that CAHs do not provide but which residents in rural communities depend upon. Please reject the OIG recommendations regarding the CAH program and keep access to care close to home for Minnesota’s rural residents. Sincerely,
09.20.2013	For Immediate Release: September 20, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, House Republicans once again played partisan politics and passed a bill that has no hope of becoming law. The ‘Tea-Party Continuing Resolution’ (H.J.Res.59) maintains the reckless sequester, defunds ObamaCare, and fails to prevent a federal government shutdown. The proposed Continuing Resolution funds the federal government until December 15. The current federal Fiscal Year ends on September 30. If Congress and President Obama don’t approve a new Continuing Resolution by October 1, the federal government will shut down. After opposing the GOP’s political stunt, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement. “The Affordable Care Act is the law of the land, and another reckless Tea Party Republican tantrum will not change that fact. But it is clear that the Republicans refusal to offer a clean bill to fund the government threatens a shutdown of the federal government,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “The GOP’s government shutdown strategy puts our economy at risk and will needlessly harm millions of Americans. Speaker Boehner and the rest of the House GOP need to stop this nonsense and pass a clean Continuing Resolution.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
09.19.2013	Grants Will Fund Development and Expansion of Innovative Training Programs for High-Demand Fields WASHINGTON, D.C. [09/19/13]—Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar (D-Minn.) and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and Reps. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Tim Walz (D-Minn.), and Rick Nolan (D-Minn.) announced that $20 million from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) will go to help community and technical colleges in Minnesota develop and expand innovative training programs. The grants, part of the Trade Adjustment Assistance Community College and Career Training Grant Program (TAACCCT), will be used to promote skills development and employment opportunities in areas such as advanced manufacturing, transportation, and health care. The funding will also help bolster partnerships between training providers and local employers in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). "From paper mills to poultry lines, American industry is changing. More and more businesses are using advanced technology and need workers who have specialized skills to use it," said Sen. Klobuchar. "This investment will help Minnesota schools continue to be a leader in preparing students for the ‘jobs of tomorrow’ that our businesses are creating today." "70 percent of the jobs in Minnesota by the year 2018 will require some kind of post-secondary education," said Sen. Franken. "There are high-quality jobs in Minnesota that are going unfilled because our workforce doesn’t have the skills to fill them. Because of this important grant, several of our community and technical colleges will be able to develop and expand their training programs and help Minnesotans gain the skills necessary to fill open, high-demand jobs. " "Our community and technical colleges do a tremendous job keeping pace with workforce needs in their regions, and provide affordable and accessible educational opportunities in a variety of career fields," said Rep. Peterson. "As a graduate of Minnesota’s community college system and parent of two Century College graduates, we know the power of these institutions to fill the educational needs of our communities. Community colleges play an important role in preparing Minnesotans for high-tech, quality jobs," said Congresswoman McCollum. "I congratulate Century College and the other institutions on this achievement. This funding will help support the top-notch education curriculum for which Century College is known." "Every time I ask local job creators and American manufacturers for the one thing they need in order to grow their business, they all tell me the same thing: a highly skilled workforce," said Rep. Walz. "These grants will go a long ways towards creating that workforce and allowing hardworking southern Minnesotans to seize opportunity and find good-paying jobs." "In the 8th District, I'm particularly pleased to see Pine Technical College in Pine City and Central Lakes College in Brainerd receiving a combined total of just under $10 million to boost their already highly successful education and career training programs," said Rep. Nolan. "What a boost for those institutions, their students and faculty, and the local communities that have been so supportive." The following community and technical colleges in Minnesota are receiving funding through DOL’s TAACCCT grants: · Minnesota State College-Southeast Technical in Winona will receive over $1.76 million as part of a 9-college, multi-state grant led by Lewis and Clark Community College in Illinois; · Century College in White Bear Lake will receive over $4.6 million as the lead institution in a 5-college, multi-state grant; · Pine Technical College in Pine City will receive over $6.89 million as the lead institution in a 4-college, multi-state grant; · Central Lakes College in Brainerd will receive over $3.7 million; and · Ridgewater College in Willmar will receive over $3 million as part of this project. TAACCCT provides community colleges and other eligible institutions of higher education with funds to expand and improve their ability to deliver education and career training programs that can be completed in two years or less, are suited for workers who are eligible for training under the TAA for Workers program, and prepare program participants for employment in high-wage, high-skill occupations. Through these multi-year grants, the DOL is helping to ensure that our nation's institutions of higher education are helping adults succeed in acquiring the skills, degrees, and credentials needed for high-wage, high-skill employment while also meeting the needs of employers for skilled workers. DOL is implementing the TAACCCT program in partnership with the Department of Education. Sen. Franken has long been a champion of increasing investments in workforce investment. He introduced the Community College to Career Fund Act, which would create a competitive grant program that will fund partnerships between businesses and two-year colleges to address the skills gap. Those partnerships would focus on valuable job training-related efforts, such as registered apprenticeships, on-the-job training opportunities, and paid internships for low-income students that allow them simultaneously to earn credit for work-based learning in a high-skill field. The bill would encourage businesses to locate and invest in the U.S. because the training available will help provide a skilled workforce. And by training local workers in the skills businesses need it would also help communities, especially rural communities, retain skilled workers. For more information on Sen. Franken’s Community College to Career Fund Act, click here.
09.13.2013	For Immediate Release: September 13, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington Post calls Red*****’ name “a racial slur of Native Americans so offensive that it should no longer be tolerated” Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, today announced her strong endorsement of the “Change the Mascot” campaign. The Oneida Indian Nation of New York initiated this campaign to urge the National Football League (NFL) and the owner of the Washington NFL team to end its use of the offensive and blatantly racist team name. In a telephone call yesterday with Oneida Indian Nation Representative Ray Halbritter, McCollum commended the tribe for its efforts and offered her strong support. “The NFL and its Washington franchise are promoting and profiting from an offensive, racist caricature of Native Americans that simply can’t be tolerated. The Change the Mascot campaign has my full support. I hope football fans, the media, and all Americans send a strong message that Native Americans and their culture are to be respected and honored, not degraded,” McCollum said. “The Oneida Indian Nation of New York is to be commended for standing up for the dignity of all Native Americans. My hope is that NFL owners and players go on the record and join the campaign because right now their silence is condoning this racist brand,” McCollum concluded. Joining the chorus for change, in today’s lead editorial, the Washington Post once again called on Dan Snyder, owner of Washington’s NFL team, to abandon the team’s name. The editorial characterized the team’s mascot as an “ethnic slur.” The Post said, “Mr. Snyder should be prepared for the controversy never to end. The clamor for change only grows with time.” On May 13, 2013, McCollum joined nine congressional colleagues, including the Republican co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, Rep. Tom Cole (R-OK), in a letter urging NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell to take a stand against the offensive name used by the Washington franchise. The letter states, “For decades now, Native American leaders and organizations have been advocating an end to the use of ‘redskin’ as the organization’s ‘brand’ because it is derogatory, demeaning, and offensive.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
09.12.2013	For Immediate Release: September 12, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the House Republicans’ 41st attempt to undermine and delay implementation of the Affordable Care Act. She opposed today’s vote on H.R. 2775 – a bill to expand the federal government’s bureaucracy in order to investigate Americans’ eligibility for healthcare premium tax credits: “House Republicans have made destroying the Affordable Care Act their only policy priority. Tea Party Republicans are now holding Congress and the American people hostage, threatening to shut down the federal government in three weeks unless ObamaCare is defunded. The Republicans refuse to pass a jobs bill, can’t pass a Farm Bill, and won’t pass comprehensive immigration reform. Now they are willing to default on America’s debt. The GOP’s political game playing needs to stop and it’s time for Congress to put the needs of the country ahead of the demands of Tea Party extremists.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
09.11.2013	For Immediate Release: September 11, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the twelfth anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. “Today, we remember and pray for the innocent victims of an unprovoked terrorist attack against America. For the family and friends of the victims these past twelve years have been filled with tears, loss, and the difficult process of rebuilding lives. The survivors of September 11th – especially the courageous first responders – live every day with this memory.” “Over the past twelve years our Nation has also been transformed. We are concluding a decade-long war in Afghanistan. Our first responders are now prepared for any type of crisis. And, every citizen is aware of the cost and vigilance required to protect our freedom.” “For me, today is a time for reflection. I pray for the people whose lives were lost and transformed, but I am also grateful for the blessings of this great Nation, especially the brave men and women who serve us every day to keep us safe, secure and free.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. She is Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
09.10.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement following President Barack Obama’s address the Nation on the subject of the Syrian regimes use of chemical weapons against civilian population and the need for a U.S. response: “Only because of the credible threat of U.S. military action by Mr. Obama are Syria and Russia now willing to pursue a diplomatic solution to this crisis. I fully support the Administration’s effort to engage Russia and work towards disarming the Assad regime peacefully, with international verification.” “The stakes in this crisis are critical to our national security interests. If the murder of civilians with chemical weapons is allowed to become the new international norm the America people will never be safe from their use by rogue regimes or terrorists.” “President Obama has my full support and trust as he continues to rally the international community, Congress, and the American people to hold the Syrian regime accountable for using sarin gas to kill innocent civilians, including children.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
09.06.2013	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN04), a member of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, will travel on Saturday, September 7, 2013 to attend the commissioning ceremony for the U.S.S. Minnesota (SSN 783), a Virginia-class submarine, in Norfolk, VA. Joining Rep. McCollum at the ceremony will be the Secretary of the Navy, Ray Mabus, Admiral Jonathan Greenert, Chief of Naval Operations, Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Senator Al Franken (D-MN), and other state and local officials from Minnesota. In reverence to the occasion, Congresswoman McCollum will deliver remarks and wish the ship and crew good luck in her role defending the United States of America. The U.S.S. Minnesota is only the third U.S. Navy Ship to bear the state’s name, the first two having been launched in 1855 and 1905, respectively. The honor of having a US Navy ship named after a state is a storied tradition, reaching far back in the nation’s history. In 1819, Congress put the naming of ships in the hands of the U.S. Secretary of the Navy under direction of the President. The U.S.S. Minnesota is part of the U.S. Navy’s Virginia-class of submarines, the most technologically advanced submarines in the world. Measured at nearly 380 feet long, the submarine can reach speeds of over 25 knots and has the ability to stay submerged for three months at a time. Interested media outlets are asked to contact Matthew Hilgart at: matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
09.05.2013	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN04) announced her support for draft legislation authored by Reps. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) and Gerry Connolly (D-VA) authorizing President Obama to conduct limited military action in response to the Syrian regime’s use of chemical weapons against civilians. The “Van Hollen-Connolly Joint Resolution” strictly prohibits American forces on the ground in Syria, limits the authority for military action to 60 days, and limits the objective to deterring the repeated use of chemical weapons. The “Van Hollen-Connolly” language will prevent the U.S. from being dragged into Syria’s civil war, but ensures the U.S., with its international partners, is defending the global ban on the use of chemical weapons. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement regarding her support for the “Van Hollen-Connolly Joint Resolution”: “The Syrian regime has used chemical weapons to gas and kill their own people. Over 1,400 people are dead, including more than 400 children. The intelligence is undeniable.” “This atrocity violates the most basic international standards of acceptable behavior, even in war, and it is too egregious to ignore. President Obama is correct – a forceful, coordinated international response to the Assad regime’s crimes is needed. Yet, an open-ended, poorly defined authorization for the use of military force is not acceptable to me, but neither is the prospect of doing nothing in the face of this evil act against innocent civilians.” “The legislation put forward by Reps. Van Hollen and Connolly is the right approach. It clearly defines limitations to prevent an open ended commitment. Yet, it provides President Obama the support of Congress to take military action, in coordination with international partners, to enforce the chemical weapons ban and deter their future use. U.S. national security and our vital leadership role in the Middle East are at stake. I urge my colleagues and constituents to support this responsible approach.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
09.04.2013	On the eve on Rosh Hashanah, the start of the Jewish New Year and start to the High Holy Days, Congresswoman McCollum wished the Jewish community worldwide a happy holiday: "Tonight begins Rosh Hashanah, a two day celebration marking the start of the Jewish New Year and beginning of High Holy Days. This holiday traditionally honors the end of creation and commences the Jewish High Holy Days. It is a a time of great reflection, repentance, and renewal for millions of Jews worldwide. I wish my Jewish constituents, and the Jewish community worldwide, a happy, safe, and illuminating holiday. Shana tovah u'metukah!" Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus ####
09.03.2013	St. Paul, MN – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN04) issued the following statement regarding President Obama’s request for Congressional authorization for military action in response to the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime of President Bashar al-Assad. “Without final legislative language to consider it is impossible for me to commit at this time to support or oppose President Obama’s request for Congressional authorization for military action targeting the Syrian regime.” “Having been briefed by the White House, the intelligence is undeniable that the Syrian regime used chemical weapons to gas and kill innocent civilians. This is a crime against humanity that requires an unequivocal response from the U.S. and the international community. To do nothing and allow Syrian President Assad and his generals’ impunity following such an atrocity would undermine the most fundamental global norms of conduct that keep Americans safe while directly putting at risk our key regional allies – Jordan, Turkey, and Israel. As I have stated previously, the U.S. should not take unilateral military action, but it is clear the Obama Administration is making significant diplomatic efforts to seek support from a host of nations, especially Arab League nations, for a limited military strike. President Obama’s plan can only be successful if the world is standing with the U.S.” “It is my intention to return to Washington tomorrow, attend additional briefings, and consult with the Administration and Congressional colleagues. President Obama must make the case and earn the support of the American people and Congress, including this representative, for limited and effective military action against the Syrian regime. I applaud the President for fully engaging Congress in this critically important decision.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
08.29.2013	For Immediate Release: August 29, 2013 Contact: Matthew Hilgart, (202) 579-4905; matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement in anticipation of the White House response to the use of chemical weapons against civilians by the Syrian regime. “The use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime must be considered a crime against humanity. President Assad and his generals need to be brought to justice for this atrocity – preferably by the International Criminal Court. The U.S. response to the deteriorating situation in Syria must be coordinated with allies and the Arab League. The Obama administration and the international community must increase pressure on Russia and China to join in the condemnation of the Assad regime, end all shipments of weapons to Syria, and enlist their cooperation to work as part of the international effort to end the killing. Now is the time for measures that will bring strategic pressure to prevent an escalation of the conflict, rather than add to the wanton violence of a situation already out of control. Unilateral U.S. military action against the Syrian regime at this time would do nothing to advance American interests, but would certainly fuel extremist groups on both sides of the conflict that are determined to expand the bloodshed beyond Syria’s borders.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
08.19.2013	For Immediate Release: August 19, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC -- Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) condemned the ongoing violence and political instability in Egypt. Since August 14, over 700 civilians have died in clashes with security forces, while over 45 Christian churches and monasteries throughout the country have been attacked and burned by members of the Muslim Brotherhood. "I strongly condemn the Egyptian security forces use of lethal force against civilians. At the same time, the burning of Christian churches by members of the Muslim Brotherhood is also unacceptable. I support President Obama's approach as he urges Egyptian leaders to cease all violence against civilians. All sides must work toward peacefully transitioning to a civilian government.” "The U.S. and Egyptian military-to-military relations have been critical to our country's national interests. Suspending military aid to Egypt must be a consideration if the situation does not improve in the near term." Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
08.08.2013	For Immediate Release: August 8, 2013Contact: Maria Rappas (McCollum), 202-225-6631 MINNEAPOLIS – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) and Al Franken (D-MN) joined Representatives Keith Ellison (MN-05) and Betty McCollum (MN-04) to announce $93 million to complete construction of the Central Corridor Light Rail project. The project will connect the business districts of Minneapolis and St. Paul, the University of Minnesota and the area surrounding the State Capitol when completed. “Locking in this final installment of federal funding for the Central Corridor Light Rail Transit Project is great news for the Twin Cities,” the members said. “This 11-mile transit line that runs between Minneapolis and St. Paul will help boost business for shops along the corridor, improve access to jobs for residents along the route, and provide a great transportation alternative for students at the University of Minnesota and neighboring colleges and universities.” ###
08.02.2013	Washington— Last week, the Committee on House Administration approved the registration of the Congressional Western Sahara Caucus. The bipartisan caucus, co-chaired by Representatives Joseph R. Pitts (PA-16) and Betty McCollum (MN-04), was formed with the intent of highlighting the needs for self-determination and human rights monitoring for Western Sahara. “Working together with Congressman Pitts, the Western Sahara Caucus will be a forum to share information with our colleagues and staff to promote a peaceful, just solution to this unresolved international dispute,” said McCollum. “The people of the Western Sahara should be able to voice their opinions, assemble peacefully, and live free without fear. Human rights protections for the Sahrawi people will be a priority for this Caucus.” “As a past co-chairman of the Western Sahara Caucus, I’m very proud to help restart it in the 113th Congress,” said Pitts. “The graveness of human rights violations in the country and the security environment in the region compel our government to address this longstanding crisis. I’ve been encouraged by the Obama Administration’s renewed engagement on this issue, and look forwarded to continuing to act as an advocate for self-determination and human rights for the Sahrawi people.” Western Sahara is the last colony in Africa. According to the United Nations and the International Court of Justice, it is a Non-Self-Governing Territory with the right to self-determination regarding its political status. Its people have been waiting to exercise that right for more than forty years, following the withdrawal of Spanish colonial rule. After over a decade of fighting between the Moroccan government and the Polisario Front, Western Sahara’s national liberation movement, the two parties agreed to a United Nations sponsored ceasefire. In exchange, the Sahrawi people were promised a referendum to decide their political future, in keeping with international law. Twenty-two years later, this referendum still has not taken place. The U.S. Department of State and international organizations have extensively documented the ongoing and widespread human rights abuses in some parts of the territory. Despite these abuses and the UN Secretary General’s call for human rights monitoring, the U.N. Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (“MINURSO”) is the only U.N. peacekeeping mission in the world without a mandate for human rights monitoring. ###
08.01.2013	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Jeff Fortenberry (R-NE) and Betty McCollum (D-MN) today introduced the Conservation Reform Act of 2013 to streamline existing U.S. resources for international conservation priorities. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate earlier this year by Senators Rob Portman (R-OH) and Tom Udall (D-NM). "The Conservation Reform Act puts in place a collaborative, international strategy to better conserve natural resources, increase global stability, and grow economic opportunity," Congressman Fortenberry said. “America benefits from a more stable world. This policy addresses the most serious threats to the world's natural resource and habitat conservation efforts and lays the framework for a comprehensive global resource management strategy. The legislation allows for better coordination in the resource-based international economy without further indebting our nation." “The United States needs to sustain and modernize its global conservation leadership. As threats continue to put critical natural resources at risk around the world, the Conservation Reform Act will position the United States to respond in a coordinated and strategic manner,” said Congresswoman McCollum. The Conservation Reform Act aims to expand wildlife habitats worldwide, help reduce global conflict and instability, and create and protect American jobs without authorizing additional spending. The legislation is supported by numerous organizations, including the Nature Conservancy and the International Conservation Caucus Foundation. Fortenberry introduced similar measures in the 111th and 112th Congress.
07.31.2013	For Immediate Release: July 31, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Tomorrow, Minnesota will become the 13th U.S. state to allow same-sex couples to legally marry and recognize gay marriages from other states. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) – a decades-long supporter of the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) community and public advocate for LGBT rights – welcomed this historic victory. She issued the following statement: “Congratulations to all the couples who will profess their love and commitment, starting at midnight, when Minnesota will join a dozen other states that recognize same-sex marriages. I am inspired by the dedication, compassion, and courage of my fellow Minnesotans who worked tirelessly to make marriage equality a reality in our state.” “Our state’s support for same-sex marriage rights represents yet another historic step in the fight for all LGBT Americans to be recognized and treated equally under the law.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
07.25.2013	For Immediate Release: July 25, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum) (202) 225-6631 Washington, DC – Today, Representative Betty McCollum (D-MN) introduced bipartisan legislation to expand the United States’ commitment to fighting hunger and poverty worldwide. Along with Representative Aaron Schock (R-IL), the Global Food Security Act (H.R. 2822) ensures that small-scale and women farmers have the tools and resources needed to boost agricultural production, improve nutrition, and increase food security in their communities. In addition to Representative Schock, the original cosponsors include: Representatives Jim McGovern (D-MA), Lacy Clay (D-MO), Steve Cohen (D-TN), John Garamendi (D-CA), Mike Honda (D-CA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Gwen Moore (D-WI), Jim Moran (D-VA), Jared Polis (D-CO), Charlie Rangel (D-NY), Bobby Rush (D-IL), and Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). “Roughly 870 million people around the world suffer from chronic food insecurity. This is wrong, and it makes the United States less secure,” said Representative McCollum. “This bill fights food insecurity by working with the world’s most vulnerable people to enable them to produce their own food and improve their families’ livelihoods.” “The United States has a long and proud tradition of supporting global hunger and nutrition programs,” Representative McGovern said. “That tradition can and must continue. Hunger is a political condition. We have the means to end it; what we need is the political will to make it happen. I am proud to support this important legislation.” “Malnutrition remains one of the world’s worst problems, and it’s a primary deterrent to the growth and prosperity of developing countries. The United States has a strong history of leadership in providing assistance to developing nations, but a renewed focus and streamlined approach is needed to prevent more children and families from suffering the long-term consequences of malnutrition,” said Representative Schock. “The Global Food Security Act is a comprehensive approach to tackling the food insecurity epidemic that plagues more than 870 million people worldwide by better coordinating U.S. assistance and making accountability a priority to assess progress and the efficient use of foreign aid funding.” The Global Food Security Act: Directs the President to develop a multi-agency strategy for global food and nutrition. Creates a new Special Coordinator for Food, Nutrition, and Agricultural Development. Requires annual progress reports on meeting strategy objectives. Updates the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 to include a renewed focus on women, nutrition, and small-scale farmers. ####
07.19.2013	For Immediate Release: July 19, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, House Republicans voted to dismantle the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA) (H.R 5). H.R. 5 abandons our federal commitment to public education by drastically reducing essential funding, weakening protections for students with disabilities, and failing to ensure all children receive equal access to federal support. All 195 Democrats and 12 Republicans opposed H.R. 5, while 221 Republicans voted for it. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “House Republicans decided to turn their backs on our most vulnerable students in H.R. 5. The GOP proposal abandons the children who need us the most.” “I strongly support the Democratic alternative. It repeals inflexible Adequate Yearly Progress requirements and replaces them with a focus on student growth. It includes policies to ensure that all students have a well-rounded education. It supports innovations in education with investments in educational research and technology, high-quality charter schools, and comprehensive school plans to reduce bullying and keep all students safe.” “Our families, educators, and communities deserve K-12 education legislation that ensures all students have access to a world class education. Instead of gutting our nation’s education system, Congress should be passing legislation that invests in our schools and communities.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
07.18.2013	For Immediate Release: July 18, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – This week, House Republicans announced their intention to bring to the floor a highly partisan bill that deconstructs the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (H.R. 5). The deeply-flawed H.R. 5 undermines our national commitment to equity in education by consolidating federal funds currently designated for special populations. If H.R. 5 is enacted, American Indian, Native Hawaiian, and Alaskan Native students would be greatly harmed by the GOP proposal to dissolve their dedicated funding and the associated educational initiatives that exist under Title VII of the current reauthorization. As the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) is joining Congressman Don Young (R-AK), Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), and Congresswoman Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI) in supporting an amendment to restore funding for students throughout Indian Country. This amendment is supported by the National Indian Education Association, the National Congress of American Indians, the United South and Eastern Tribes, the Tribal Education Departments National Assembly, the Native Hawaiian Education Council, and the Alaska Federation of Natives support this amendment. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “I object in the strongest terms to this abandonment of our federal trust responsibility to Native American youth. Students throughout Indian Country are already bearing the brunt of sequestration’s cuts to education. Now this partisan bill would strip away the guaranteed funding and the crucial academic and cultural supports that Native students need. I commend Mr. Young, Ms. Gabbard, and Ms. Hanabusa for advancing this amendment to restore and improve the Indian, Native Hawaiian, and Alaska Native Education Title.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
07.17.2013	For Immediate Release: July 17, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, House Republicans again moved forward with legislation to undermine the implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA) – the 38th time they have proposed to repeal, delay or defund ObamaCare. The so-called “Fairness for American Families Act” (H.R. 2668) would delay the implementation of the individual responsibility requirement, raise health insurance premiums, and make affordable coverage for 129 million Americans with pre-existing conditions impossible. H.R. 2668 is another in a series of anti-ObamaCare obstructionist GOP bills that have no chance of becoming law. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) strongly opposes the legislation. She issued the following statement as the bill was debated on the House floor: “American families want serious legislation to address our country’s challenges, but House Republicans only offer political games and gimmicks. Health care should be a right for all Americans. Republicans will vote for the 38th time to deny health care coverage to tens of millions of our fellow citizens.” “Congress should be working to successfully implement health reform rather than wasting the American people’s time by having yet another partisan vote to undermine access to affordable health care.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
07.11.2013	For Immediate Release: July 11, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Republican Lawmakers Trumpet Certainty for Agribusiness and Vote to Inflict Certain Hunger on Low-Income Americans Washington, DC – For the past four decades, Congress authorized agriculture and nutrition programs in farm bills, which united rural, suburban, and urban Members of Congress –Republicans and Democrats. This bipartisan approach ensured economic certainty for farmers and a nutrition safety net for low-income seniors, families, and individuals with disabilities. Today, House Republicans abandoned this decades-long tradition to ram through a totally partisan farm bill (H.R. 2642). For the first time in 40 years, House GOP leadership removed standard nutrition programs from the farm bill. More than 500 organizations representing faith-based, agriculture, conservation, and timber organizations opposed this legislation as well. Following passage of the Republican farm bill, Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement: “Passing a farm bill that provides taxpayer-funded corporate welfare to millionaires and completely abandons hungry children, poor seniors and people with disabilities is shameful. I opposed the Republicans’ cruel and hyper-partisan legislation. I urge the American people to stand with Democrats and reject it as well.” The final vote was 216-208. Twelve Republicans and 196 Democrats opposed the bill. Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
07.09.2013	For Immediate Release: July 9, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman McCollum Rejects GOP Effort to Strip Away Nutrition Programs in a New Farm Bill Washington, DC – Today, House Republicans are attempting to neutralize its party’s loss on the Farm Bill by removing nutrition programs from the current bill for a separate vote. Last month, 62 House GOP Members went against leadership and opposed the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act of 2013 (H.R. 1947). Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “House Republicans embarrassed themselves when their Farm Bill was rejected by 62 of their own members. The new GOP desperate scheme to bring a micro-Farm Bill to the House floor without nutrition programs is a display of political arrogance that destroys House tradition and regular order.” “I completely reject this Republican move to play political games with the livelihoods of U.S. farmers and the lives of hungry Americans. It is time for the House to take up and pass the bipartisan Senate Farm Bill.” Over 530 national organizations signed a letter to Speaker Boehner, opposing splitting the Farm Bill. “Farm bills represent a delicate balance between America’s farm, nutrition, conservation, and other priorities, and accordingly require strong bipartisan support,” the letter stated. “…We believe that splitting the nutrition title from the rest of the bill could result in neither farm nor nutrition programs passing, and urge you to move a unified farm bill forward.” Minnesota groups that signed onto the letter include: Minn-Dak Farmers Cooperative Minnesota Canola Council Minnesota Corn Growers Association Minnesota Farm Bureau Federation Minnesota Farmers Union Minnesota Forest Industries Minnesota Grain & Feed Association Minnesota Lamb & Wool Producers Minnesota Pork Producers Association Minnesota Timber Producers Association Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
07.01.2013	St. Paul, MN – The Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe announced today that their former Chief Executive, Marjorie Anderson, passed away yesterday of natural causes. She served as chief executive from 1991 to 2000, and then again from 2008 to 2012. As Chief Executive, Marge Anderson was instrumental in defending the Mille Lacs Band’s treaty rights and investing tribal gaming revenues towards improving services and the quality of life for Mille Lacs Band members. A powerful female leader and champion of tribal sovereignty, Marge Anderson was a national figure honored and respected throughout Minnesota, by federal officials in Washington, and by tribal leaders across the U.S. Congresswoman Betty McCollum issued the following statement: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of Marge Anderson and I wish to extend my condolences to her family and all the community members who loved her.” “The members of the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe have lost a great political leader and champion of tribal rights who will be remembered for generations to come. Marge was an inspiration who dedicated her life to improving the lives of her community and Indian people all across this country.” “Personally, I have lost a friend and a mentor whom I admired for her strong leadership and courage. For more than twenty years I worked with Marge and learned from her. I will miss Marge, but having known her has been an honor and privilege I treasure.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
06.26.2013	Washington, DC – President Barack Obama today issued an executive order creating the White House Council on Native American Affairs. This high level interagency group will be chaired by the Secretary of the Interior with the purpose of ensuring that “the Federal Government engages in a true and lasting government-to-government relationship with federally recognized tribes in a more coordinated and effective manner, including by better carrying out its trust responsibilities.” The Council will work across federal agencies and departments to coordinate the development of “policy recommendations to support tribal self-governance and improve the quality of life for Native Americans.” Congresswoman McCollum, co-chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, issued the following statement: “President Obama is to be commended for recognizing the critical importance of a coordinated federal approach to engaging with tribal nations and Native Americans. This special recognition of tribal sovereignty by the White House will give Indian issues a higher profile and will hopefully put greater focus on providing better services and getting results for Indian families. At a time when sequestration is inflicting devastating harm throughout Indian Country, this Council will be have an immediate opportunity to engage tribal leaders and stakeholders to responsibly meet federal trust obligations. Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus ####
06.26.2013	Washington D.C. — In a highly-anticipated announcement, the U.S. Supreme Court today released their decision on United States v. Windsor, a case which challenged the constitutionality of Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA). In a 5-4 decision written by Justice Anthony Kennedy, the Court held that “DOMA is unconstitutional as a deprivation of the equal liberty of the person that is protected by the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) responded to the Supreme Court’s decision with an official statement: “Today is a victory for love and equality over blatant discrimination. This ruling will afford legally married same-sex spouses all of the federal rights and benefits afforded to opposite-sex married couples. For same-sex couples who will soon be married in Minnesota, this decision is a victory for equality. Still, I am reminded that there is more work to do to guarantee all LGBT Americans equal rights and full marriage equality in all 50 states.” “I wish to congratulate all of the LGBT Americans who will finally have access to the federal recognition they deserve under this historic and just ruling.” DOMA, enacted in September of 1996, prohibited federal recognition of same-sex unions, and in effect, denied same-sex couples the federal marriage benefits to which opposite-sex couples are entitled. Under DOMA, the average same-sex couple was denied access to more than a thousand federal benefits and protections over their lifetime in marriage. Today's Supreme Court decision will restore the equality under federal law of all state recognized marriages. Congresswoman McCollum serves on the Appropriations Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus ####
06.20.2013	Washington D.C. — On Wednesday, June 19th, Congresswoman McCollum submitted to the Congressional Record a statement honoring the 40th Anniversary of Special Olympics Minnesota. Special Olympics Minnesota, founded in 1973, is dedicated towards providing essential life skills development through sports to all persons with intellectual and physical disabilities. This year, Special Olympics Minnesota will be holding a 40th anniversary commemorative ceremony in Stillwater, MN on June 21st. Honoring the 40th Anniversary of Special Olympics Minnesota Ms. McCOLLUM: Mr. Speaker, today I rise to pay tribute to the athletes, volunteers and fans of Special Olympics Minnesota in honor of their 40th anniversary. This weekend, thousands of people will be gathering in Stillwater, Minnesota to celebrate this momentous milestone with a variety of activities, including athletic competitions and live music. Founded just five years after Special Olympics was established nationally, thousands upon thousands of Minnesota athletes with intellectual or physical disabilities have had the opportunity to compete in 17 Olympic style sports year round, including alpine skiing, volleyball, golf, snowboarding and tennis. The Special Olympics message is simple and profound: “Through sports, our athletes are seeing themselves for their abilities, not disabilities. Their world is opened with acceptance and understanding. They become confident and empowered by their accomplishments.” Rather than focusing on what they can't do, Special Olympics Minnesota focuses on what the individual can do. Respect, accomplishment, choice, quality, partnership and integrity are the six core values represented by Special Olympics Minnesota. These values contribute to an understanding of the whole person and the whole athlete. This year, members of our law enforcement in Minnesota are participating in the Law Enforcement Torch Run, which has taken place annually across the country since it was founded in 1981 by Police Chief Richard LaMunyon, of Wichita, Kansas. In 2012, more than 1,200 law enforcement officers throughout the State of Minnesota participated in this special torch run for Special Olympics Minnesota. Thanks to the hard work and commitment of the officers, $3 million was successfully raised for Special Olympics Minnesota in 2012. Mr. Speaker, in honor of the athletes, volunteers, donors and staff of Special Olympics Minnesota, I proudly submit this statement to the Congressional Record in recognition of their 40th anniversary as an organization, and I commend all those joining in celebration this weekend in Stillwater, Minnesota. Congresswoman McCollum serves on the Appropriations Committee ####
06.20.2013	For Immediate Release: June 20, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Republican Bill Would Have Denied Food Assistance to 2 Million Poor Children, Seniors, Working Families Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) called the defeat of the Republican farm bill a “…victory against a cruel form of extremism, inflicting hunger on the most vulnerable Americans in order to advance a political agenda.” The Federal Agricultural Reform and Risk Management Act (H.R. 1947) proposed a cut of $20.5 billion from the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), denying nearly two million low-income children, seniors, and working families food assistance. The legislation was defeated by a vote of 195 to 234 with 62 Republicans and 172 Democrats voting against the bill. Many Republicans opposing the bill were not satisfied with the cuts to SNAP and wanted even deeper reductions to the program. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “The defeat of this Republican farm bill is a victory against a cruel form of extremism, inflicting hunger on the most vulnerable Americans in order to advance a political agenda. The bill brought to the House floor would have imposed deep cuts on children, seniors, and poor families while handing the wealthiest farmers and agriculture corporations larger taxpayer-funded subsidies. This was a bad bill, and its defeat is good news as far as I’m concerned. “Looking ahead, Minnesota farmers, businesses, and other agriculture interests need a farm bill to help keep our state’s economy strong. The path forward is not difficult if Speaker Boehner is willing to put politics aside and allow the House to have a clean vote on the bipartisan farm bill that recently passed the U.S. Senate. I am confident that common-sense Democrats and Republicans could come together to pass that bill before the end of the summer.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
06.17.2013	Saint Paul, MN. — On Tuesday, June 11th, Congresswoman McCollum hosted Vietnam-era Army Veteran and Army Reservist Russell (Russ) Omdahl in her District Office for a military service medals presentation. Army Reserve Ambassador James A. Lundell, who is also a retired Colonel, presided over the ceremony and presented Mr. Omdahl with the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, the National Defense Service Medal, and the Reserve Component Achievement Medal. Congresswoman McCollum’s staff was instrumental in assisting Mr. Omdahl in obtaining his medals and full service records. Russ Omdahl, a native of Saint Paul, MN and graduate of Johnson High School, was drafted into the U.S. Army in October 1969. Russ bravely served in the Second Infantry Division, Eighth Army in Korea during the Vietnam War, protecting the volatile Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) that separates North Korea and South Korea to this day. Upon his return, Mr. Omdahl served in the U.S. Army Reserve, a role that took him to multiple locations within our nation. Russell completed his service and received an honorable discharge in March 1998. Military Service Medals presented during ceremony: Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal— Established by President Kennedy in 1961, the medal recognizes the services of the United States Armed Forces who participated in American military peacekeeping activities. National Defense Service Medal—Established by President Eisenhower, the medal is awarded to members of the United States Armed Forces who serve honorably during a designated time period for which a "national emergency" had been declared. Reserve Components Achievement Medal—Awarded for sustained meritorious service in the United States Army Reserve. Congresswoman McCollum serves on the Appropriations Committee ####
06.14.2013	For Immediate Release: June 14, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 / maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House defeated an amendment offered by U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) to the National Defense Authorization Act for FY2014 (H.R. 1960) prohibiting the Army National Guard from spending $53.5 million to sponsor World Wrestling Entertainment, NASCAR, and Indy Car racing. McCollum called the program a waste of taxpayer funds given that the Army National Guard has been unable to provide any data demonstrating that this recruitment program resulted in actual enlistments. The “McCollum amendment” was defeated by a vote of 134 to 290. “This is a Congress that has its priorities seriously wrong. I am watching Republicans and Democrats coming together to slash government spending by kicking poor children off the school lunch program and denying low-income seniors access to food. Then these same folks turn around and protect a $53 million taxpayer handout to NASCAR and pro-wrestling,” McCollum said. “It just shows the American people the extent to which Congress is addicted to spending that directly benefits special interests like NASCAR.” The “McCollum amendment” would have prohibited the Army National Guard from continuing its current contracts with the following companies: World Wrestling Entertainment (Vince McMahon) - $5,150,000 NASCAR (Dale Earnhardt, Jr.) - $29,962,425 Indy Race League - $14,496,424 American Motorcycle Association - $3,960,100 Total: $53,568,949 The “McCollum amendment” was supported by Taxpayers for Common Sense, Citizens Against Government Waste, and the Project on Government Oversight. #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus
06.13.2013	Washington, DC – NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell has responded to a bipartisan group of Members of Congress who urged the commissioner to “…take a stand against the use of the word ‘redskin’ as the Washington franchise’s name” in a May 13th letter. Mr. Goodell’s letter (dated June 5) and supporting material attempts to justify the use of the racial slur and says “Redskins” has “a positive meaning.” The commissioner did acknowledge in his letter that “…the issues raised with respect to the Washington Redskins name are complex.” Ten Members of Congress and the nation’s oldest, largest and most representative Native American organization, the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI), along with dozens of other Native American organizations have urged the Washington football teams owner and the NFL to end the use of Redskins due to its offensive, derogatory, and racist connotations. Congressman Eni Faleomavaega (American Samoa) responded to the letter with the following statement: “Mr. Goodell has completely missed the point regarding the Washington franchise’s name. In his recent letter, he acknowledges the NFL’s ‘responsibility to exemplify […] values of diversity and inclusion.’ Yet in the same letter he fails to assume any responsibility for the racism that the Washington franchise’s name continues to promote. You cannot have it both ways. Whether good intentioned or not, the fact of the matter is that the term ‘Redskin’ is a racial slur that disparages Native Americans. It is time for the NFL to stop making excuses for itself and fully embrace its so-called commitment to diversity.” Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following response: “Unfortunately, NFL Commissioner Goodell’s letter is another attempt to justify a racial slur on behalf of Dan Snyder and other NFL owners who appear to be only concerned with earning ever larger profits, even if it means exploiting a racist stereotype of Native Americans. For the head of a multi-billion dollar sports league to embrace the twisted logic that ‘Redskin’ actually ‘stands for strength, courage, pride, and respect’ is a statement of absurdity. “Would Roger Goodell and Dan Snyder actually travel to a Native American community and greet a group tribal members by saying, ‘Hey, what’s up redskin?’ I think not. (“Hey, what’s up redskin” is a quote from materials provided to my office by the NFL, along with the claim that “Redskins” is a “term of endearment” among Native Americans.) “Indian children, families and elders are Americans, and just like all racial, ethnic, or religious groups, they deserve to be treated with respect and dignity, not as a demeaning caricature or mascot. That shouldn’t be too much to ask of the NFL.” ####
06.12.2013	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, was denied a vote on an amendment to the fiscal year 2014 defense appropriations bill to end funding for the Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) program that kills targets with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones. Committee members, both Republicans and Democrats, refused to support a motion calling for a vote on the amendment, effectively protecting the CIA’s lethal program from congressional accountability. McCollum will offer the same amendment before the full U.S. House when the defense appropriations bill comes to the floor. McCollum concluded her remarks to the committee stating, “It is no surprise the White House opposes this amendment. The executive branch wants to maintain its CIA drone program and its target list without congressional oversight, without transparency or accountability. Right now the CIA is running an assassination program and the world is watching. Soon China, Russia and Iran will have the same capability and will use the CIA’s standard of killing anyone profiled as an enemy.” The McCollum amendment gives sole responsibility for any lethal military action using UAVs to the Department of Defense, specifying that operations must be conducted by “members of the Armed Forces under the authority provided pursuant to title 10, United States Code.” During the past decade the CIA has conducted hundreds of lethal drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen, and Somalia against terrorists or individuals presumed to be involved in terrorism. During the decade long program as many as 3,500 people have been killed. Estimates provided by journalists and non-governmental monitors cite as many as 771 civilians, including 200 children, killed by U.S. drone strikes. During his confirmation hearing, CIA Director John Brennan stated, “The CIA should not be doing traditional military activities and operations.” The FY14 defense appropriations bill provides $598.3 billion for the Department of Defense, intelligence agencies, and to fund war operations in Afghanistan. The CIA is funded in this bill but the amount and purpose of appropriated funds is classified. #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus.
06.12.2013	Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, is offering an amendment to the fiscal year 2014 defense appropriations bill to end funding for the Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) program that kills targets with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) or drones. The amendment gives sole responsibility for any lethal military action using UAVs to the Department of Defense, specifying that operations must be conducted by “members of the Armed Forces under the authority provided pursuant to title 10, United States Code.” During the past decade the CIA has conducted hundreds of lethal drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia against terrorists or individuals presumed to be involved in terrorism. During the decade long program as many as 3,500 people have been killed. Estimates provided by journalists and non-governmental monitors cite as many as 771 civilians, including 200 children, killed by U.S. drone strikes. During his confirmation hearing, CIA Director John Brennan stated, “The CIA should not be doing traditional military activities and operations.” The FY14 defense appropriations bill provides $598.3 billion for the Department of Defense, intelligence agencies, and to fund war operations in Afghanistan. The CIA is funded in this bill but the amount and purpose of appropriated funds is classified. The “McCollum amendment” will be debated and voted on in the full House Appropriations Committee today. The following statement was made by Rep. McCollum during debate on the amendment: Mr. Chairman, within the classified portion of this bill hundreds of millions of dollars, perhaps billions, are appropriated for a targeted killing program operated by the Central Intelligence Agency. The CIA operates a fleet of weaponized drones armed with laser guided Hellfire missiles. They conduct lethal air strikes against targets in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia. The program’s targets are identified terrorists or they are unidentified individuals targeted and killed based on a pattern of behavior. My amendment places sole responsibility for conducting lethal military action using weaponized drones in the hands of the Department of Defense conducted by members of the Armed Forces under the authority of Title 10 of the U.S. Code. The CIA’s use of drones to conduct surveillance and intelligence gathering in support of Defense Department lethal action continues under my amendment. Some of our colleagues do not believe that the Pentagon is not up to the task of carrying out this responsibility. I disagree with that. The Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC) is conducting drone strikes now. The Air Force and the Army possess and operate weaponized drones. They operate within a clear chain of command and legal accountability. Lethal military operations using sophisticated weapons systems should be in the hands of the Secretary of Defense and military commanders who are accountable to Congress. CIA strikes have been effective. Terrorists have been killed. But they are not secret. The whole world knows these are CIA strikes operating on behalf of the American people, without transparency, accountability or oversight. There are costs associated with these targeted killings. Hundreds of innocent civilian have been killed. There are legal questions, human rights concerns, foreign policy implications and ultimately moral issues. You could dismiss all of these concerns because the program is killing terrorists. But in the near future, as armed drone technology proliferates, if we dismiss these concerns I can guarantee you that China, Iran, Russia and other nations will also dismiss these concerns when they are capable of conducting targeted killings. Why, because we are setting the example. If we want other countries to use these technologies responsibly, then we must use them responsibly. What’s at stake is our country’s moral authority. The Obama Administration is not leading on this issue of ensuring transparency, accountability and oversight. The president claims these CIA strikes are within “clear guidelines, oversight and accountability” that his administration determined all by itself – without input or even the consideration of Congress. And Congress has done less. In fact Congress has done nothing except write a black check that allows a paramilitary force of CIA officers and civilian contractors to kill suspected terrorists and anyone else unlucky enough to be in the vicinity – including women and children – using one of the most sophisticated weapons platforms in our military arsenal. For this Congress and this committee to passively allow the CIA to fire laser guided missiles at human targets in countries in which we are not at war without demanding oversight or accountability is a complete abdication of our sworn obligation to the Constitution and our citizens. This is not intelligence gathering, these are military operations that should be conducted by our Armed Forces and with direct oversight by Congress. Our country is at war with Al-Qaeda and its terrorist affiliates. I trust the members of our Armed Forces to do their job, defeat the enemy, and protect our nation. The drone strike program is a military program and Congress should demand that it be conducted within the same legal framework as any other military operation during a time of war. #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum is a member of the House Appropriations Committee and serves as the Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus.
06.07.2013	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 Washington, DC – This week, Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN), Jim McGovern (D-MA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Aaron Schock (R-IL) led a coalition of 81 Members, urging President Barack Obama to support U.S. leadership on global nutrition and food security efforts at the upcoming Nutrition for Growth summit. “Increasing global food security must continue to be a priority for the U.S. government and for the American people. Clearly, a healthier, more productive world is in our own interest. Malnutrition and hunger negatively impact cognitive and physical development in any child, but when tens of millions of children are malnourished and stunted it undermines the development of entire nations,” said Representative McCollum. “The time is now for Congress to support President Obama advance U.S. leadership to address hunger and malnutrition.” “The United States has a long and proud tradition of supporting global hunger and nutrition programs,” Representative McGovern said. “I am pleased to join my colleagues in a bipartisan way to urge the Obama Administration to maintain that support. Hunger is a political condition. We have the means to end it; what we need is the political will to make it happen.” ####
06.06.2013	June 10, 2013 - 1:30 PM | Minnesota State Capitol - Room 15 Saint Paul, MN— On Monday, June 10th, Congresswoman McCollum will host a listening session at 1:30 PM at the Minnesota State Capitol to discuss the impact of proposed cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by the U.S. House Agriculture Committee. Anti-hunger leaders will provide testimony about the impact of this proposal on Minnesota’s low-income children, families and seniors. On May 15, 2013, the House Committee on Agricultural passed the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act (H.R. 1947), also known as the Farm Bill. The bill cuts SNAP benefits by $20.5 billion over the next ten years, ending access to vital food assistance for nearly two million vulnerable children, families, seniors, and persons with disabilities. This massive cut targeting hungry Americans is in addition to a previously scheduled reduction in benefits scheduled to start on November 1, 2013. The cumulative effect of these two major reductions would have a severe impact on the most vulnerable Americans. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program was created to address hunger by providing financial assistance to low-income families to purchase food. Since its inception, SNAP has served as the primary food support program for millions of American families undergoing financial difficulties. The average daily SNAP benefit amounts to less than $3.80 a day and more than half of the nation's SNAP beneficiaries live in deep poverty—an income of less than $10,000. In Minnesota alone, over 500,000 individuals receive SNAP benefits each year with 2/3 of these beneficiaries being poor children, seniors, or adults with disabilities. Earlier that morning, Rep. McCollum will join U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack at an event at the University of Minnesota’s St. Paul Campus to discuss the need to pass a five-year Farm Bill. ####
06.06.2013	June 10, 2013 - 1:30 PMMinnesota State Capitol - Room 15 Saint Paul, MN— On Monday, June 10th, Congresswoman McCollum will host a listening session at 1:30 PM at the Minnesota State Capitol to discuss the impact of proposed cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) by the U.S. House Agriculture Committee. Anti-hunger leaders will provide testimony about the impact of this proposal on Minnesota’s low-income children, families and seniors. On May 15, 2013, the House Committee on Agricultural passed the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act (H.R. 1947), also known as the Farm Bill. The bill cuts SNAP benefits by $20.5 billion over the next ten years, ending access to vital food assistance for nearly two million vulnerable children, families, seniors, and persons with disabilities. This massive cut targeting hungry Americans is in addition to a previously scheduled reduction in benefits scheduled to start on November 1, 2013. The cumulative effect of these two major reductions would have a severe impact on the most vulnerable Americans. The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program was created to address hunger by providing financial assistance to low-income families to purchase food. Since its inception, SNAP has served as the primary food support program for millions of American families undergoing financial difficulties. The average daily SNAP benefit amounts to less than $3.80 a day and more than half of the nation's SNAP beneficiaries live in deep poverty—an income of less than $10,000. In Minnesota alone, over 500,000 individuals receive SNAP benefits each year with 2/3 of these beneficiaries being poor children, seniors, or adults with disabilities. Earlier that morning, Rep. McCollum will join U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack at an event at the University of Minnesota’s St. Paul Campus to discuss the need to pass a five-year Farm Bill. *** Media outlets interested in covering these events are asked to RSVP to Matt Hilgart at 202-579-4905, or matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov *** Congresswoman McCollum serves on the Appropriations Committee. ####
06.03.2013	Washington, DC – Rick Jauert, a former staff member to ten Democratic Members of Congress over a nearly three decade long career, including Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), died yesterday in Minnesota after a long illness. Rick was 59 years old. Rep. McCollum issued the following statement: “Rick was a dear friend, a passionate public servant, and an unapologetic liberal Democrat who worked throughout his career to advance social justice and equality. There are many Members of Congress and regular Americans all across our country who owe a debt of gratitude to a public servant who cared so deeply and worked so hard to make our world a better place.” “Rick lived and breathed the values of the Minnesota Farmer Democratic Labor Party and anyone who walked into his home knew that from the posters on his walls. He was witty, sharp, and always seeking new ideas, more information, and reading the latest political book.” “I visited Rick a few weeks ago for the last time. He was very sick, but still was watching the news and had the optimism to fight on for his political beliefs.” “Like so many, I will miss Rick, his Christmas letters, and his emails. May God bless our dear friend, Rick Jauert.” Congresswoman McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committees. ####
05.29.2013	Washington D.C. — Congresswoman McCollum has joined with nine Members of Congress and more than 50 organizations in urging Mr. Dan Snyder, the owner of the NFL’s Washington XXXskins football team, to change his team’s racist name. For decades, Native American leaders and tribal organizations have advocated for an end to the use of this derogatory and demeaning “brand”. The NFL’s commitment to diversity states, “It is a cultural and organizational imperative about dignity, respect, inclusion and opportunity.” Unfortunately, in the case of Native Americans it appears that the league’s organizational imperative is not about dignity or respect, but the exploitation of racist branding for profit. In letters addressed to Owner Dan Snyder, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell, and Fed Ex CEO Frederick Smith (the XXXskins main corporate sponsor), Congresswoman McCollum called on the executives to end their profiteering from this racist team name. "It is shameful that Dan Snyder and the NFL continue to exploit for profit a racial slur that demeans millions of Native Americans," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This entire issue could end tomorrow with a simple decision by Mr. Snyder to change his football team's name to any of a million different mascots that would offend no one." "It's time for the NFL and the team’s corporate sponsors to wake up, respect cultural diversity, and join Native American leaders in urging Mr. Snyder to change his team's racist name." Congresswoman McCollum serves on the Appropriations Committee and is the Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus ####
05.27.2013	For Immediate Release: May 27, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – As Americans across the nation commemorate Memorial Day, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “Over the generations the men and women who have worn the uniform of our Armed Forces have stood for our freedom and in defense of Nation. This Memorial Day families all across our country will remember the sons, daughters, fathers, mothers, sisters and brothers who have given their lives in the service of this country. These fallen heroes have fought for us in Afghanistan, Iraq, Vietnam, Korea, and across Europe and the South Pacific. We can reach back to the birth of our Nation and there have always been heroes who have given their lives so that more than 200 years later Americans can live as free people.” “To all the soldiers, sailors, marines and airmen and women serving our country today, to all of our wounded warriors, our veterans and all of the military families and loved ones, we also remember you today, we are tremendously grateful for your sacrifices, and a grateful Nation is humbled by your selfless service.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. ####
05.24.2013	For Immediate Release: May 24, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov St. Paul, MN – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement in anticipation of the May 28th groundbreaking in Stillwater for the new St. Croix River Crossing. Next week, she will be out of town on a long-planned vacation and will not be able to attend the event. “The groundbreaking for the new St. Croix River Bridge starts a transformative process for Oak Park Heights, Stillwater, and communities along Highway 36. As construction moves forward, I want to make sure that worker safety on the project is a top priority as well as full compliance will all required environmental protections. While it is no secret that I opposed the size and cost of the new bridge, now that it is being built, my goal is to ensure taxpayers get the best, most cost-effective bridge possible.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
05.23.2013	For Immediate Release: May 23, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Yesterday, a mudslide at St. Paul’s Lilydale Park buried fourth grade students on a field trip. Two students from St. Louis Park’s Peter Hobart Elementary School were killed in the accident, and two children were injured. First responders from St. Paul and surrounding areas immediately responded to the scene. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: "Yesterday's school trip accident at Lilydale Park was as unexpected as it was heartbreaking. The loss of a child's life is the greatest fear a parent could have. During this time of grieving and sadness, I extend my deepest sympathies to all of the students, parents, and educators at St. Louis Park’s Peter Hobart Elementary School. The St. Paul Fire Department and the brave first-responders -- who put their own lives in danger to search for survivors -- have the gratitude of our entire community. My prayers are with all those involved in this devastating accident." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
05.21.2013	Washington D.C. — In response to a drastic spike in gas prices, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) today urged the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Chairwoman Edith Ramirez to initiate an investigation to determine the rationale for increased oil prices in Minnesota. “Gas prices in Minnesota have spiked, increasing as much as $1 per gallon in the last month, to a level that has my state’s consumers paying the highest gas prices in the lower 48 states,” wrote Congresswoman McCollum. “My constituents and I find this both outrageous and unacceptable,” McCollum stated. “A full investigation by the FTC in this unusual and excessive Minnesota price spike is warranted,” urged McCollum. Recent news reports have attributed the extreme price increase to a shutdown of regional refineries. The resulting closure of facilities has gasoline prices soaring, pinching the pockets of many Minnesota families, and causing a surge of people to run to the pumps. In 2007, Congress gave the FTC authority to investigate and prevent any manipulative or deceptive device or contrivance that could result in unjustifiably high gasoline prices. Rep. McCollum’s letter asks for the FTC to use their unique authority to immediately initiate an investigation. Additionally, Congresswoman McCollum requested that the FTC establish a permanent gasoline and oil market oversight unit—modeled on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s Division of Energy Market Analytics—to protect consumers and markets from malicious trading practices in the future. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
05.21.2013	Washington D.C-- Yesterday’s devastating tornado that hit Moore, Oklahoma is a national tragedy. The significant loss of life, young and old, is heartbreaking and we mourn with all of those who have lost loved ones. For the injured and the many families who have lost their homes, my prayers are with you. My colleague and friend, Rep. Tom Cole, represents the families of Moore and he has my full support for any federal aid or relief needed by his community and constituents. This is a time for America to come together and for Congress to provide all necessary emergency relief. We need to ensure this community can heal and rebuild. May God bless the families of Moore, Oklahoma and may we all work to support them with both prayers and action. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
05.16.2013	For Immediate Release: May 16, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) voted against the latest Republican maneuver to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This effort marks the 37th time that House Republicans tried to repeal, defund, or dismantle ObamaCare. “The Republican obsession with ObamaCare has become an addiction to empty gestures and meaningless floor votes to repeal, defund, and dismantle health benefits for tens of millions of Americans. This debate is an embarrassing waste of time and tax dollars. Congress should be focused on the implementation of the law to ensure health reform achieves its goal. Unfortunately, GOP governors, state legislatures, and Members of Congress are taking every possible opportunity to undermine ObamaCare’s effectiveness. “With this vote, House Republicans are also voiding the most significant advancement in Indian health care in years, the update and permanent authorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. This vital legislation for Indian health care could easily have been exempt from this repeal, but instead the GOP purposefully voted to eliminate critical improvements and benefits for tribal nations.” Congressional Budget Office (CBO) Director Doug Elmendorf wrote House Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan to reiterate that a full repeal of the Affordable Care Act would increase the deficit. In July 2012, the CBO estimated that repeal would raise the deficit by $109 billion over the next decade. 05.16.13 House Tea Party-GOP’s Charade Goes Nowhere Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
05.15.2013	Washington D.C.– On Friday, May 10th, the National Council of Urban Indian Health (NCUIH) honored Congresswoman Betty McCollum with the 2013 Congressional Leadership Award during their 15th Anniversary Gala Celebration. After accepting the award from Executive Director, D’Shane Barnett, Congresswoman McCollum thanked the organization for their work and shared her commitment towards improving healthcare options for American Indians and Alaska Native populations. "I view my role in Congress to be one of making smart investments in programs that meet the real needs of people in my district, my state, and our nation. I want to invest in health care, mental health services, chemical dependency services, and the prevention of chronic diseases—the same priorities that NCUIH shares." As a Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus and a member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior and Environment, Congresswoman McCollum is a strong advocate on behalf of the nation’s tribes. In the 113th Congress, the Congresswoman has authored bipartisan legislation that would reduce the harmful impact of sequestration on the Indian Health Service and the urban Indian health programs that receive IHS funding (H.R. 1371). The National Council of Urban Indian Health (NCUIH) is a nonprofit organization dedicated to improving the status of American Indians throughout America. NCUIH specifically focuses on supporting accessible, affordable, and culturally-sensitive healthcare options for American Indians and Alaska Natives living in urban areas. In 2010, NCUIH won the National Impact Award from the Indian Health Board for their work on creating the “Knowledge Resource Center,” an online training and storage tool for the dissemination of Urban Indian-specific research documents. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior and is Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
05.14.2013	Washington, DC – U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum today introduced legislation to establish a special U.S. House committee to conduct oversight, ensure accountability, and report on sexual assault and abuse in the U.S. military. Responding to the on-going and ever growing problem of sexual violence and abuse committed by members of the military, the “Special Committee on Sexual Assault and Abuse in the Armed Forces” would focus congressional attention on necessary reforms to the Department of Defense’s prevention, prosecution, and victims’ services efforts. The Pentagon’s “Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military,” released last week, indicated that an estimated 26,000 sexual assault or incidents of “unwanted sexual contact” took place in 2012, compared to 19,300 in 2011 (based on an anonymous survey). Actual assaults reported in 2012 were 3,374, an increase over 2011. “Sexual violence and abuse in the military needs to end - period. It is an unfair stain on the honorable service of all the men and women who put on the uniform that must be extinguished. An all out culture change from top-to-bottom is required, along with reforms that reflect the severity of the problem,” McCollum said. “This special committee will allow Congress to address this problem in a focused, comprehensive and bipartisan manner. This will require on-going attention. The Pentagon’s budget exceeds $500 billion, we are at war in Afghanistan, and global threats are constantly emerging, all of which distract Congress from holding military leaders accountable for making real change. This special committee will maintain on-going pressure on the Pentagon to end a culture in which rape and abuse are far too common and all too commonly dismissed,” McCollum concluded. High profile incidents of sexual assault committed by members of the military plague all branches of the Armed Forces, even as leaders claim to be making this issue a top priority. Last week, the Air Force’s officer in charge of sexual assault prevention programs was arrested in Arlington, VA for sexual battery highlighting a federal department with a problem that is out of control. The Washington Post, in a front page story entitled, “Pentagon’s sex-crime crisis extends to military recruiters,” reported yesterday that a Marine in Alaska convicted of first-degree sexual assault in the rape of civilian woman but not sentenced to prison. The story also told of an Air Force recruiter in Texas who will soon face charges of rape and forcible sodomy with 18 young women he tried to recruit in recent years. The “Pentagon’s sex crime crisis” has been on-going for years and is a greater threat to the force now because of the greater number of women serving and the dependence by all branches of the military for an ever expanding role for women service members. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee’s Defense Subcommittee. ####
05.14.2013	(Washington, DC) – Governor Mark Dayton (DFL) today will sign into law a bill making it legal, effective August 1, 2013, for same-sex couples to be married in Minnesota. Under the new law, Minnesota will become the 12th state in the nation to allow same-sex marriages. U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement: “Today is a historic day for Minnesota. Marriage equality will become the law in our state, and I stand with my fellow Minnesotans to celebrate the equality of love and access to civil rights for all families. I applaud the courageous legislators who voted with their hearts for justice and equality for all families. I am inspired by the dedication and compassion of all those who have worked to make the freedom to marry a reality in our state. Just two years ago, a hurtful and discriminatory amendment was proposed to constitutionally exclude Minnesota’s same-sex couples from marriage. Yet through countless thoughtful conversations and the brave sharing of personal stories, a coalition was built that defeated the amendment. Here in Washington, I am mindful that much work remains to be done. Same-sex couples who will soon be legally married in Minnesota will still not be federally recognized because the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) discriminates against them. These couples will be denied more than 1,000 federal rights and benefits that their neighbors are eligible to receive. I will continue to work to repeal DOMA and I hope in the coming weeks the U.S. Supreme Court will rule it unconstitutional. All Americans deserve to be treated equally under the law. I look forward to the day when we can celebrate marriage equality all across America. Until then, I share in the joy of another step forward in the struggle for equal rights for all, regardless of their race, age, gender, or sexual orientation.” ####
05.09.2013	For Immediate Release: May 9, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) commends the U.S. Senate for unanimously approving an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act of 2013 (S. 301) offered by Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH), Pat Toomey (R-PA), and Robert Casey (D-PA). This amendment establishes a comprehensive strategy to combat Asian Carp in the Mississippi River and Ohio River basins. The amendment language, approved yesterday, is identical to bipartisan legislation in the U.S. House – the Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act (H.R. 358) – introduced by McCollum and Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA). “I applaud the terrific work of Senator Sherrod Brown and his partners Senators Toomey and Casey to move this comprehensive strategy to combat Asian Carp forward. The federal government needs to confront this destructive invasion with urgency and a strategy that coordinates federal agencies and resources with state and local partners. Asian Carp are on the move and will extend their environmental and economic destruction in Minnesota’s waterways unless a significant response is put into place. The threat posed by Asian Carp is far too substantial for piecemeal approaches. Now it’s time for Congress to stand up to Asian Carp.” H.R. 358 puts the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in charge of coordinating a new federal multi-agency effort that includes the National Park Service, U.S. Geological Survey, and Army Corps of Engineers. Agencies will provide high-level technical assistance to support state and local governments that are working to protect economies and ecosystems from Asian Carp. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior and the Environment. ####
05.08.2013	May 7, 2013 Washington, DC – Today, the Pentagon released the FY2012 Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military, showing the number of sexual assaults in the military increased more than 30 percent since 2010. According to the report, an estimated 26,000 service members were victims of unwanted sexual contact in 2012. This release follows Sunday’s arrest for sexual battery of Air Force Lt. Col. Jeffrey Krusinski, Chief of the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response unit. "This report should leave no doubt in anyone’s mind that there is an epidemic of sexual assaults in our Armed Forces that must be addressed at the Pentagon’s highest levels. Clearly, there needs to be a culture change in the military making the rape or assault of a female comrade a betrayal of one’s service and country. This is going to require more than training videos and posters; it demands an absolute commitment from the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Chiefs of Staff down to every platoon leader and recruiter. Secretary Hagel and Chairman Dempsey have personally assured me this issue is a top priority for them. I intend to hold them accountable." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Defense. ####
04.26.2013	Contact:Maria Reppas (McCollum), 202-225-6631 Washington, D.C. – In a letter to President Barack Obama, U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Tim Walz, John Kline, Erik Paulsen, Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, Michele Bachmann, Collin Peterson and Rick Nolan urged the President to invite the University of Minnesota Women’s Hockey team to the White House in honor of their perfect season. Klobuchar and Franken also introduced a Senate resolution commending the Gophers for their hard and work and dedication in winning an unprecedented 49 straight games and second consecutive NCAA Women’s Ice Hockey Championship. “The University of Minnesota women’s hockey team surpassed all expectations, capturing their second consecutive championship title and shattering previous records as the first team in NCAA women’s hockey to finish with a perfect record,” the delegation said. “This would be a fitting event to conclude an outstanding season by the student athletes and the team’s coaches and staff.” The full text of the letter is below: The Honorable Barack ObamaPresident of the United States of America1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NWWashington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: Last month, the University of Minnesota women’s hockey team surpassed all expectations and captured their second consecutive National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship title. They also shattered previous records as the first team in the 13-year history of NCAA women’s hockey to finish the season with a perfect record – a feat that no other male or female Division I hockey team has done since 1970. The Golden Gophers’ record-breaking achievement was honored statewide when Monday, April 15, 2013 was proclaimed "Gopher Women's Hockey National Championship Day" throughout Minnesota. We hope that you continue the celebration of their national championship title by inviting them to a reception at the White House. This would be a fitting event to conclude an outstanding season by the student athletes and the team’s coaches and staff. Thank you for your consideration and for your dedication to recognizing the achievements of our nation’s collegiate athletic teams. Sincerely, ###
04.19.2013	Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) responded to the news that law enforcement captured Boston bombings suspect Dzhokar Tsarnaev. Earlier today, his brother, Tamerlan Tsarnaev, was killed. “The people of Boston and Americans all across the country experienced the horror and tragedy of a terrorist attack. Yet today, because of the tireless determination and bravery of local, state, and federal law enforcement, this nightmare has ended with the perpetrators of this vicious crime dead and in custody. In the days ahead, my prayers are with the victims of this attack--including a fallen police officer--and all the people of Boston who showed the world great strength and resolve.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
04.18.2013	For Immediate Release: April 18, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Yesterday, Senate Republicans blocked bipartisan legislation that would have expanded background checks on firearms sold over the Internet and at gun shows. The measure failed 54 to 46 – a mere six votes short of passage. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) responded with the following statement: “Instead of siding with the vast majority of the American people, Senate Republicans surrendered to blatant falsehoods perpetuated by the gun lobby. Keeping guns out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill shouldn’t be up for debate. This legislation would have prioritized the families that have been torn apart by gun violence and the safety of all our families and communities. “The President said this vote was not the end of the American people’s efforts to address gun violence. I agree. Throughout my career, I’ve been a staunch advocate for common-sense measures such as comprehensive background checks, reinstating the assault weapons ban, and closing the gun show loophole. I remained fully determined to help these measures become law.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
04.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. [4/10/13]–Today, Minnesota's Congressional Delegation came together for U.S. Sen. Al Franken’s (D-Minn.) third annual hotdish competition. Sen. Franken started the friendly “Hotdish Off” as a way to bring the delegation together and celebrate a Minnesota culinary tradition. Rep. Walz’s “Hermann the German Hotdish” took first place. You can download photos of the event at franken.senate.gov and video here. “It’s a great day when the Minnesota delegation is able to put our differences aside and focus on what really matters - Hotdish,” said Sen. Franken. “I want to thank all my colleagues for participating in today’s competition and a huge congratulations to Rep. Walz for his winning Hermann the German Hotdish. It was delicious.” “I want to thank Sen. Franken and his staff for putting this annual, bipartisan event on. It was great to share our recipes and great to finally win,” said Rep. Walz. “Today we share our hot dish recipes, tomorrow let’s share our ideas to create jobs, grow our economy, and forge a better future for our children and grandchildren.” "Our Hormel hotdish may not have the shelf life of SPAM, but the recipe is timeless," said second-place winner Sen. Klobuchar. "It's great to come together every year with the Minnesota delegation for some home-cooked competition. Congratulations to Congressman Walz for winning with his delicious Herman the German hotdish!" "In the midst of an April snowstorm in Minnesota, we're hoping to heat things up with hotdish," said Rep. Peterson. “Minnesota is the hotdish capital of the world. Tonight, when Minnesota families go home, many of them will enjoy hotdish,” said Rep. McCollum. “My office’s hotdish contains two ingredients from Minnesota’s Fourth Congressional District: craft beers from our local breweries. We used Maibok from St. Paul’s Summit Brewing Company and Chestnut Hill from Stillwater’s Lift Bridge Brewery.” “I look forward to the hotdish competition with my Minnesota colleagues each year,” said Rep. Bachmann. “It is a bipartisan opportunity to enjoy a little taste of home and celebrate the traditions and sense of community that make Minnesota so great.” “It was tough to top Sen. Franken’s Mom’s Mahnomin Madness and Rep. Cravaack’s Minnesota Wild Strata from last year, but I congratulate Rep. Walz on taking the top prize,” said Rep. Ellison. “It is always fun to join the Minnesota delegation to share in something we all enjoy—food.” “This hotdish is the Tommy Rukavina-tested real Ranger deal,” said Rep. Nolan. “On the Nolan farm, we can eat this for breakfast, lunch and dinner and never get tired of it. We’re already working on a Walleye version for next year.” “I always look forward to joining my Minnesota colleagues for a friendly hotdish competition,” said Rep. Paulsen. “We not only share hotdish recipes, but should continue building relationships that allow us to get things done for Minnesotans." After blind taste testing each member's hotdish, former Congressmen Vin Weber (R-Minn.) and Gerry Sikorski (D-Minn.), named Rep. Walz’s "Hermann the German" the winner of the 2013 Hotdish off. Minnesota State Society member Megan Ivory Carr acted as the Master of Ceremonies. The other members prepared the following hotdishes: Sen. Klobuchar made Hormel ‘I Can’t Believe It’s Not SPAM’ Pepperoni Pizza Hotdish; Sen. Franken made Willmar Stew Hotdish; Rep. Peterson made Easter Ham and Cheese Hotdish; Rep. McCollum made Beef, Beer, & Biscuits Hotdish; Rep. Bachmann made Southwest Metro Hotdish; Rep. Ellison made Juicy Lucy Hotdish; Rep. Walz made Hermann the German Hotdish; Rep. Nolan made ‘Real Deal’ Ranger Hotdish; and Rep. Paulsen made Kelly Paulsen’s Taco Hotdish. Last year, Sen. Franken’s “Mom's Mahnomin Madness Hotdish” and former Rep. Chip Cravaack’s (R-Minn.) “Minnesota Wild Strata Hotdish” tied for first place. Sen. Klobuchar took top honors in 2011 with her “Taconite Tater-Tot Hotdish.” Participants' recipes can be found here. Video from the event can be found here.
03.27.2013	St. Paul, MN – On Tuesday, March 26th, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) joined United States Department of Agriculture Undersecretary, Kevin Concannon, on a day of visits highlighting the National School Lunch Program, local Farm-to-School initiatives, and anti-hunger efforts in the region. The Undersecretary and Congresswoman McCollum stopped at the Saint Paul Public Schools Nutrition Center, joined students at Crossroads Elementary School for school lunch, and toured the Neighborhood House at the Wellstone Center. Culminating the day’s visit, Undersecretary Concannon and Congresswoman McCollum participated in an informal roundtable discussion with community leaders on the effects of hunger in our region. Congresswoman McCollum is an advocate of domestic and international hunger solutions, sponsoring legislation to make sure that food support programs are available and funded. In Saint Paul, alone, over 70% of the public school’s student population qualifies for free and reduced lunch. In the 111th Congress, Congresswoman McCollum introduced the National Farm to School Act of 2010, authorizing USDA to create a competitive matching grant program to implement Farm to School initiatives and linking school districts to local farmers. USDA Undersecretary Concannon is responsible for overseeing national USDA nutrition programs—including national School Lunch Programs and the Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP). The Undersecretary spent two days in Minnesota, meeting with local partners and highlighting the need to improve the health of our nation’s children. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
03.21.2013	For Immediate Release: March 21, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) joined all House Democrats in voting against the GOP-Ryan Budget. She issued the following statement. “Today I voted NO along with every House Democrat, on the GOP-Ryan Budget, which is a disastrous for our economy, our families, and the future of our country. Imagine, this GOP budget, if it actually became law, would result in two million lost jobs in 2014 alone, according to the Economic Policy Institute. “Instead of common sense investments, such as growing the economy, creating jobs, and strengthening our families, this Republican budget is harmful. It lowers taxes on the wealthiest Americans, while 66 percent of the non-defense budget cuts come from programs helping low or moderate income families. The GOP cuts and guts $3.7 trillion over the next decade from programs like Pell Grants for college students, job training for dislocated workers, nutrition programs for poor children, and healthcare for our most vulnerable citizens. “Congress needs to move forward with a balanced approach to address deficit reduction – increased revenues, elimination of special interest tax breaks, smart cuts to failing programs, and investments in growing the economy.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
03.21.2013	For Immediate Release: March 21, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) voted against the Department of Defense, Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (H.R. 933), which would fund the federal government for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2013. Although today’s bill would continue to fund the federal government, Congress failed to address sequestration. “While this Senate compromise provides funding for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2013, it fails to address the destructive cuts caused by sequestration. Congress missed an opportunity to end these reckless cuts, which are harming our families, our military readiness and hindering our nation’s economic recovery.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
03.06.2013	Congresswoman McCollum to Participate in Woodbury Town Hall Meeting On Saturday, March 9, 2013, Congresswoman McCollum will join State Senator Susan Kent (53) and State Representatives Andrea Kieffer (53B) and JoAnn Ward (53A) for a Town Hall at Woodbury City Hall from 10 AM –11:30 AM. Woodbury Mayor Mary Giuliani Stephens and Washington County Commissioner Lisa Weik will also be present for the discussion. Woodbury residents are welcome to attend to hear legislative updates and ask questions about federal, state, and local issues. Woodbury Town Hall Meeting, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM with... Congresswoman Betty McCollum State Senator Susan Kent (SD53) State Representative Andrea Kieffer (53B) State Representative JoAnn Ward (53A) Washington County Commissioner Lisa Weik Woodbury Mayor Mary Giuliani Stephens at... Woodbury City Hall 8301 Valley Creek Road Woodbury, MN 55125 Woodbury became part of the Fourth Congressional District of Minnesota as a result of redistricting following the 2010 census. During a February visit to Woodbury, Congresswoman McCollum announced that her office would hold monthly office hours at Woodbury City Hall on the third Tuesday of each month, from 9-11AM. More information can be found at: https://mccollum.house.gov/serving-you/congresswoman-mccollum-announces-new-office-hour-locations. Congresswoman McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
02.28.2013	For Immediate Release: February 28, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Senate version of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (S. 47) by a vote of 286 to 138. Eighty-seven Republicans and all 199 Democrats in the House supported the legislation. “I proudly cast my vote today to send the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act to President Obama’s desk for his signature. This bill reaffirms and expands our commitment to protecting women from domestic and sexual violence by giving our communities the resources they need. Tribal nations will now have additional tools to ensure the safety of Native women and children. LGBT survivors will be guaranteed equal access to the services they need. After numerous years of hard work, today’s Violence Against Women Act includes a provision requiring a multi-year strategy to prevent child marriage and empower girls in developing nations. Passage of today’s bill is a victory for all women.” President Obama is expected to sign the bill. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
02.28.2013	For Immediate Release: February 28, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 (McCollum) maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (S.47), which includes language requiring the U.S. to develop a comprehensive strategy to prevent child marriage in developing countries. Throughout their time in Congress, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Congressman Aaron Schock (R-IL) have consistently fought to pass legislation that would reduce the number of child brides and give young girls a chance at a better life. “For years, I have been working to protect young girls, even pre-teen girls, in poor countries from being forced to marry, forced into sex, and forced into lives of poverty. Today, with the passage of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act, the United States will make protecting girls and preventing child marriage a foreign policy priority. Keeping girls and women safe from violence and abuse here at home and around the world will always be a priority for me,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Child marriage is a tragedy happening on an epic scale around the world. This is a moral, economic and humanitarian crisis that doesn’t receive nearly enough attention in our country,” said Congressman Aaron Schock. “However, all that begins to change today with the passage of our legislation. On my trip with CARE to Ethiopia, I saw first-hand how child marriage devastates young girls physically and emotionally, while destroying their future. I’m grateful we can finally tell the world that help is on the way.” #### Background on Congressman McCollum’s trip to Bangladesh In 2012, Congresswoman McCollum traveled to Bangladesh to assess U.S.-funded initiatives that impact the health, education, and economic security of women and girls, especially efforts to prevent child marriage. She was joined on the trip by Ambassador Melanne Verveer, U.S. Ambassador-at-large for Global Women's Issues. Millions of girls in Bangladesh are vulnerable to child marriage. While in Bangladesh, Congresswoman McCollum met with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Mohamed Yunus, founder of the Grameen Bank, and visited the Asian University for Women in Chittagong to meet with young female leaders pursuing college degrees. Background on Congressman Schock’s trip to Ethiopia In September 2010, Congressman Aaron Schock traveled with CARE on a learning tour to Ethiopia. The trip focused on the issue of maternal health, and the issue of child marriage was often raised at many of the sites visited. In some parts of the country, over half the girls are married by the age of 15 and they are expected to have children the following year. Schock met many young girls, some as young as nine, who fled marriage and were trying to survive in Addis Ababa. During the visit, Schock visited a program at a community center called Biruh Tefsu, meaning “Brighter Future” in Ahmaric in Addis Ababa. As of 2010, this program has helped more than 15,000 girls from the ages of 7 to 24 by providing health information (topics include HIV prevention, sexual exploitation and abuse). Many of these girls had fled from rural areas to the city to avoid an arranged marriage. Schock also visited the surgical ward of Hamlin Fistula Hospital. He later mentioned his visit on the House floor – see video. The hospital, which has been operating for nearly four decades, has treated over 30,000 women -- many of them girls -- who had received operations on their fistulas, a birth canal injury often caused by obstructed labor. The hospital provides free fistula repair surgery to about 2,500 women each year.
02.21.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 21, 2013) - Rep. Betty McCollum, D-Minn., and several policy makers traveled with the global poverty-fighting organization CARE on a Learning Tour to South Sudan and Tanzania to better understand the challenges and solutions to food security and nutrition in each country. Other participants included David Lane, Ambassador to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture, Wesley Clark, retired four-star U.S. Army General, Jonathan Shrier, Acting Special Representative of the Office of Global Food Security at the State Department and Liz Schrayer, executive director of the U.S. Leadership Coalition. Two staffers from the office of Sen. Debbie Stabenow’s, D-Mich., also participated. In addition to government officials and policy makers, Robert Dreyfuss, a contributing editor at The Nationand Mike Davis, Senior Vice President of Global Human Resources at General Mills, Inc., came on the trip. Presently, the two countries sit at two different stages of development: While South Sudan is one of the newest countries in the world still recovering from years of conflict; Tanzania has often been viewed as a center of political stability in Africa. Both countries struggle with high rates of malnutrition for women and children under the age of five. The trip began in Juba, South Sudan where the delegation met with high-level government officials to discuss current food and nutrition initiatives in the country. Through conversations with program participants and locals, the group gained a deeper understanding of the difficulty to accessing food for the people of South Sudan. The country has faced seasonal food shortages and unpredictable markets, and a lack of food security in South Sudan has been a significant contributor to nutrition problems. Next, the delegation traveled south to a farm in Yei County, South Sudan, which produces several crops including maize and sorghum. The group spoke to farmers about more efficient farming techniques and technology they have adopted to increase agricultural productivity. The farmers are participants in the Food, Agribusiness and Rural Markets (FARM) Project funded by United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In the long run, the project hopes to spur commercial small-holder agriculture in the area. After two days, the delegation departed to Tanzania, where the country’s political stability, sound macroeconomic management and considerable resources have contributed to potential for sustained growth. However, the country still faces challenges in addressing its poor malnutrition rates where eighty percent of the population works in the agriculture industry. The group began their visit by meeting with agriculture investors to learn about public and private sector investments in agribusiness in the region. Then, the delegation also saw investments in action at the local level: They visited CARE’s Village Savings and Loans program and met a group of women and men, who formed their own savings group. These member-managed groups offer basic financial services to people who are excluded from the formal financial services system. Every group receives one year of intensive financial literacy training to make sure they understand how savings, interest, profit and loss, and financial bookkeeping work. They also learn about the selection and management of income generating activities. For many of the group members, they have invested in farming techniques that have protected them from food shortages and other shocks. Another highlight of the trip was a visit to Africare’s Mwanzo Bora program, which helps pregnant women and children by teaching them new farming techniques and providing nutrition advice. The five-year program aims to reduce the prevalence of stunting among children and maternal anemia among pregnant women. The knowledge gained from this trip will help participants and CARE continue to advocate for support and funding for these initiatives in South Sudan, Tanzania and throughout the developing world. CARE Learning Tours are funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. ABOUT CARE: Founded in 1945 with the creation of the CARE Package, CARE is a leading humanitarian organization fighting global poverty. CARE places special focus on working alongside poor girls and women because, equipped with the proper resources, they have the power to lift whole families and entire communities out of poverty. Last year CARE worked in 84 countries and reached 122 million people around the world. To learn more, visit www.care.org. Media Contacts: Washington, D.C.: Stephanie Chen, CARE, schen@care.org, +1.202.595.2824, +1.404.819.6638
02.17.2013	For Immediate Release: February 17, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) departs today for a five day trip to South Sudan and Tanzania as part of a high level delegation that includes Obama administration officials, non-profit foreign policy leaders, and business executives. The trip is sponsored by CARE, the international development and relief organization, and is focused on food security, nutrition, and empowering women and girls living in extreme poverty through agricultural development. South Sudan, the world’s newest nation, gained independence in July 2011 and is struggling with significant challenges. Armed conflict, extreme poverty, and high disease burden nearly 11 million people throughout the country. In both South Sudan and Tanzania, the success of small scale agriculture development is critically important to improving household incomes, combating malnutrition among children, and providing economic empowerment to women and girls. Joining McCollum will be the head of the U.S. Agency for International Development, Administration Rajiv Shah, U.S. Ambassador to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organizations, David Lane, General Wesley Clark (Ret. four-star U.S. Army General), Ms. Liz Schrayer (Executive Director, U.S. Global Leadership Coalition), Mr. Mike Davis (Senior Vice President of Human Resources, General Mills, Inc.), and U.S. Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA). Rep. McCollum, a member of the House Appropriations Committee, is also the founder and co-chair of the Congressional Global Health Caucus. During her seven terms in Congress, McCollum has authored legislation to elevate the U.S. foreign policy commitment to global agricultural development, child survival, international family planning, the empowerment of girls through the prevention of child marriage, and reforming U.S. foreign aid. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
02.15.2013	For Immediate Release: February 15, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus, introduced the bipartisan Stand Against Violence and Empower (SAVE) Native Women Act (H.R. 757). H.R. 757 empowers tribal governments to effectively respond to and prosecute domestic violence committed by non-Indians on tribal reservations. The bill also provides resources to help reduce the incidence of violent crimes against Native American women and support survivors of abuse. “Native American women are victims of domestic assault and abuse on reservation lands by non-Indian men,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Nearly three out of every five Native American women have been assaulted by their partners. Until tribal nations have the authority and the necessary resources to combat this epidemic of violence, our sisters in Indian Country will continue to suffer the highest rates of violent abuse, rape, and stalking in the nation. The bipartisan SAVE Native Women Act brings together the best solutions from tribal leaders, Indian law experts, and the Department of Justice.” The SAVE Native Women Act would give tribal courts special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction; enhance collaboration among the U.S. Attorney General, Secretary of Health & Human Services, Secretary of the Interior, and tribal governments; provide federal grants so that tribal communities may prevent violent crimes, assist victims of abuse, and improve tribal justice systems; and mandate further research on violence committed against Native women. In the 112th Congress, the SAVE Native Women Act was sponsored by former Congressman Dan Boren (D-OK), and had 20 bipartisan cosponsors. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
02.12.2013	For Immediate Release: February 12, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following response to President Obama’s State of the Union address. “President Obama focused on the core issues the American people are concerned about, and he inspired me. We must keep the economy strong, create good new jobs, and give the poor a path out of poverty. Congress must stop the political bickering and get to work governing for the people, not special interests. I am determined to stand with the President on climate change and to stop gun violence, protecting our children and communities from senseless suffering.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
02.11.2013	For Immediate Release: February 11, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Tomorrow evening, the National Congress of American Indians (NCAI) President Jefferson Keel will attend President Obama’s State of the Union address as Congresswoman Betty McCollum’s (MN-04) guest. Last month, Congresswoman McCollum was elected as Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. President Keel currently serves as the 20th President of NCAI. In November 2011, NCAI members unanimously re-elected him to a second term. He is also serving his fourth term as the Lt. Governor of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma. Originally established in 1944, NCAI works on behalf of tribal nations and organizations to promote tribal sovereignty, protect treaty rights, and improve quality of life throughout Indian Country. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee and is the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. ####
02.06.2013	For Immediate Release: February 6, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the United States Postal Service (USPS) announced it would suspend Saturday mail delivery to homes and businesses, beginning August 1, 2013. The USPS made this decision without Congressional authorization. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) is a cosponsor of a House Resolution urging the preservation of six-day mail delivery (H.Res. 30). She issued the following statement: “The communities, families and businesses I represent depend on Saturday mail service. While I am strongly opposed to ending Saturday service, I hope this announcement will serve as a wake-up call to Congress to enact responsible postal reform legislation to keep the Postal Service competitive and economically viable.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.30.2013	For Immediate Release: January 31, 2013Contact: Matthew Hilgart, (202) 579-4905 matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov Saint Paul, MN – On Friday, February 1st, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) will join State Senator Susan Kent and State Representative JoAnn Ward on a visit to Woodbury High School, where she will speak with students about her role in Congress and take questions. Immediately following, Congresswoman McCollum will visit Woodbury-based Aveka, Inc. where President Marie Jorissen will discuss the company’s operations and give a tour of the facility. Woodbury became part of the Fourth Congressional District of Minnesota as the result of redistricting following the 2010 Census. WHAT: Congresswoman McCollum visits Woodbury WHEN: Friday, February 1, 2013, 8:40 AM–11:15 AM AGENDA: 8:40-10:00 AM: Woodbury High School 10:15-11:15 AM: Aveka Corporation Tour Media outlets interested in attending these events are asked to RSVP to Matthew Hilgart at matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov or 202-579-4905. In addition, Congresswoman McCollum announced that beginning February 19, 2013 from 9-11am, Constituent Services Representatives from her office will be available at Woodbury City Hall the 3rdTuesday of each month to assist residents with federal agency casework. Residents of the Woodbury area are welcome to make an appointment in advance by contacting Congresswoman McCollum’s Minnesota office (651) 224-9191. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.30.2013	For Immediate Release: January 30, 2013Contact: Matthew Hilgart, (202) 579-4905 matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov Saint Paul, MN – On Wednesday, January 30st, Congresswoman Betty McCollum presented the Silver Medal Congressional Award to Gabriela Anderson, a constituent of the 4th District and resident of Saint Paul, MN, for her extensive volunteerism and commitment to the community. “I am honored to present this prestigious award to Gabriela Anderson,” Congresswoman McCollum stated. “Even as a young adult, Gabriela has displayed a penchant towards hard work, compassion, and a devotion to serve our communities in need. Byleading through action, she is a worthy role model for her peers and otherscommunity. These values will serve Gabriela and our community well into the future. I thank her for her volunteer work and wish her the best in her future endeavors.” Gabriela, a Senior at Central High School, completed over 200 hours of voluntary publicservice over the course of seven months. As a talented musician, Gabriella provided free piano lessons to low-income students and volunteered on weekends at local nursing homes, playing music during dinners. Outside of local volunteer efforts, Gabriela participated in a five-day trip to Bucahrest, Romania where she immersed herself in an exciting new culture and practicedlanguage skills. The Congressional Award was established in 1979 to recognize exemplary initiative, service and achievement in young people, and is the highest Congressional honor to bestow upon America’s youth. To receive an award, a candidate must display a variety of skills complementing, voluntary public service, personal development, physical fitness, and expedition/exploration. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.30.2013	For Immediate Release: January 30, 2013Contact: Matthew Hilgart, (202) 579-4905 matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov Saint Paul, MN – On Thursday, January 31st, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) will be in the Stillwater area to meet with local businesses, a nonprofit and school. The visit willinclude stops at the Lift Bridge Brewery, as well as the Valley Outreach Food Shelf to meet staff and learn about their impact on alleviating hunger in the region. Congresswoman McCollum will end her visit in the community at Stillwater Junior High School where she will join Mayor Ken Harycki for a classroom visit. Stillwater became part of the Fourth Congressional District of Minnesota as the result of redistricting following the 2010 Census. WHAT: Congresswoman McCollum visits Stillwater area WHEN: Thursday, January 31, 9:00AM – 1:30PM AGENDA: 9:15-10:00 AM: Valley Outreach Food Shelf 10:15-11:15 AM: Lift BridgeBrewery Tour 12:30-1:30 PM: Stillwater Junior High School Visit with Mayor Ken Harycki Media outlets interested in attending these events are asked to RSVP to Matthew Hilgart at matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov or 202-579-4905. In addition, Congresswoman McCollum announced that beginning February 12, 2013 from 9-11am, Constituent Services Representatives from her office will be available at Stillwater City Hall the 2nd Tuesday of each month to assist residents with federal agency casework. Residents of the Stillwater area are welcometo make an appointment in advance by contacting Congresswoman McCollum’s Minnesota office (651) 224-9191. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.30.2013	For Immediate Release: January 30, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum), (202) 225-6631 Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) was elected as the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Native American Caucus. She will join Republican Co-Chair Congressman Tom Cole (OK-04) in ensuring that the Native American community has a direct voice in Congress. “The Native American Caucus works to strengthen the relationships between Capitol Hill and Indian Country by providing a forum for the discussion of policy priorities important to tribal nations,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “I look forward to working with my fellow co-chair Representative Tom Cole as we continue working closely with tribal leaders and organizations across the country for the benefit of Indian Country.” "The Native American Caucus has many great opportunities ahead this year to build on the progress achieved in the last Congress to ensure that sovereignty and trust issues are resolved fairly so that Native Americans can grow their communities and increase tribal economic development,” said Congressman Cole. "I’m happy to welcome Betty McCollum as my new co-chair. She has been a leader on issues important to Indian Country throughout her entire career in Congress. Her passion and enthusiasm will help the caucus advance legislation to help the first Americans who are all too often the last Americans." The Congressional Native American Caucus is a bipartisan coalition of legislators working to improve nation-to-nation relationships between the federal government and the 566 sovereign tribal nations. For 15 years, the Caucus has worked to protect tribal sovereignty, meet federal trust obligations, and improve the lives of American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native Hawaiians. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.29.2013	News Media Contact: (202) 586-4940 For Immediate Release: Tuesday, January 29, 2013 Washington D.C. – Building on President Obama’s efforts to help more students excel in math and science and his call for investments in a skilled American workforce, U.S. Energy Secretary Steven Chu and Minnesota Congresswoman Betty McCollum announced today that St. Paul Central High School from St. Paul, MN, won the Minnesota High School Science Bowl on Friday. St. Paul Central High School competed against 32 other teams from across the state in one of the nation’s regional competitions of the 23rd Annual U.S. Department of Energy National Science Bowl, and is now eligible to compete in the National Finals in Washington, D.C., at the end of April. The National Science Bowl brings together thousands of middle and high school students from across the country to compete on a range of science disciplines including biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, astronomy, and math. “Congratulations to the students at St. Paul Central High School for their achievements in science, technology, engineering and math,” said Energy Secretary Chu. “Providing opportunities like the National Science Bowl to challenge today’s students is an essential part of keeping America competitive in a rapidly advancing world.” “Congratulations to St. Paul Central High School for winning the Minnesota High School Science Bowl,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Central's 1st place achievement is testament to the school's wonderful student body, supportive parents, and outstanding faculty. I wish them the best of luck as they prepare to participate in the National Science Bowl in Washington D.C. Go Minute Men!” The Department of Energy (DOE) created the National Science Bowl in 1991 to encourage students to excel in mathematics and science and to pursue careers in these fields. More than 200,000 students have participated in the National Science Bowl throughout its 22 year history, and it is the nation’s largest science competition. Over the next several months, more than 9,000 high school students and 5,000 middle school students will compete in 69 high school and 49 middle school regional Science Bowl tournaments. Students, in teams of four or five, compete in a fast-paced Jeopardy-style format where they solve technical problems and answer questions in all branches of science and math. Most teams are coached by teachers from the students’ schools and spend several months preparing for the regional competitions. Many states have one regional or statewide Science Bowl competition, while larger states, such as California and Texas, hold several regional competitions across their states. Students from St. Paul Central High School will be awarded an all-expense paid trip to the National Finals in Washington, D.C., which are scheduled for April 25-29, 2013. The regional tournaments, which host 15-50 teams, are sponsored by federal agencies, national laboratories, institutions of education, and non-profit organizations. DOE’s Office of Science manages the competition. More information about these events is available on the National Science Bowl website: https://www.science.energy.gov/nsb/. ###
01.25.2013	For Immediate Release: January 25, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, President Obama formally appointed Stillwater native Denis McDonough to be White House Chief of Staff. Mr. McDonough previously served as the Deputy National Security Advisor to the President. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) congratulated Mr. McDonough on his new position. “As Deputy National Security Advisor, Mr. McDonough contributed greatly to advancing our nation’s security interests. He also played a leading role in planning the raid that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden. He is clearly among the President’s most tested and trusted aides. Minnesotans share great pride in his elevation to the role of White House Chief of Staff.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.24.2013	Saint Paul, MN –On Saturday, January 26th, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) will host a town hall with Oakdale Mayor Carmen Sarrack, State Senators Chuck Wiger (SD43), Susan Kent (SD53), and State Representatives Leon Lillie (43B) and JoAnn Ward (53A). The representatives will provide state and local legislative updates. Residents are welcome to join local elected officials and Congresswoman McCollum in conversation at Oakdale City Hall from 10:00 – 11:00 AM. What: Senate Districts 43 and 53 Town Hall Meeting hosted by Congresswoman Betty McCollum Who: Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Oakdale Mayor Carmen Sarrack, State Senators Chuck Wiger, Susan Kent, and State Representatives Leon Lillie and JoAnn Ward Location: Oakdale City Hall 1584 Hadley Ave North Oakdale, MN 55128 Time: 10:00 – 11:00 AM Media outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Matthew Hilgart at matthew.hilgart@mail.house.gov or 202-579-4905. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.23.2013	For Immediate Release: January 23, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) joined Congresswoman Gwen Moore (D-WI) and House Judiciary Committee Ranking Member John Conyers (D-MI) in introducing the Violence Against Women Act reauthorization (H.R. 11). This bill reauthorizes protections and services that have been responsible for a 50 percent reduction in domestic violence. H.R. 11 also provides better assistance to abuse victims. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “Reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act ensures abused women and their families have access to the resources they need. Native American women, who unfortunately experience higher rates of sexual and physical assault, will be greatly helped by new provisions in the legislation. “Tribal leaders worked closely with the Department of Justice to develop the language that will allow tribal courts to prosecute perpetrators of domestic violence. All victims of domestic violence must have the same resources they need to feel safe and secure in their homes and communities. “H.R. 11 strengthens protections for all women by: Providing better coordination to more effectively address domestic violence, sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence; Giving tribal communities additional tools to address domestic violence; Ensuring LGBT abuse victims have access to services and support they need. “Now is the time for House Republicans to stop obstructing and support the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.23.2013	Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed a Republican-led effort to temporarily suspend the debt limit (H.R. 325) until May 18, 2013. The measure passed by a vote of 285 to 144. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) opposed the stop-gap approach because it failed to provide certainty to the United States economy. Congresswoman McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “Raising the debt limit is about paying America’s outstanding bills. Refusing to pass a long-term debt limit increase puts the nation’s economy and creditworthiness unacceptably at risk. Today’s Republican bill does nothing to provide certainty and stability for middle class families, businesses, or the financial markets. Congress needs to act to pass a responsible debt limit increase and put an end to the legislative gimmicks and games that are being played by House Republicans.”
01.23.2013	For Immediate Release: January 23, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Mike Kelly (R-PA) introduced the bipartisan Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act (H.R. 358). Five Members of Congress from Minnesota – Representatives Michele Bachmann (MN-06), Rick Nolan (MN-08), Erik Paulsen (MN-03), Collin Peterson (MN-07), and Tim Walz (MN-01) – also support H.R. 358. This bill helps state and local governments effectively reduce the spread of Asian carp in the United States. Senators Sherrod Brown (D-OH) and Republican Pat Toomey (R-PA) introduced counterpart legislation in the Senate. “The growing spread of Asian Carp demands a coordinated, holistic response from the private sector, nonprofit organizations as well as federal, state, and local governments,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “The Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act incorporates efforts from all participants so we can better protect our nation’s watersheds from this invasive species.” “The threat of Asian Carp to Western Pennsylvania’s waterways is significant and would have devastating effects on our economy and environment. We must act today to address the threats of tomorrow through an aggressive and collaborative strategy that involves the most effective and time-tested means to slow the spread and ultimately eradicate the Asian Carp,” said Congressman Kelly. “The spread of Asian carp is a real threat to our state. The Great Lakes region and the Ohio River basin are economic drivers shoring up Ohio’s multi-million dollar fishing and recreation industries,” Brown said. “While we focus on keeping the carp out of the Great Lakes in the Chicago region, we must also protect other pathways into the lakes. This bill will do just that,” said Senator Brown. H.R. 358 addresses the Asian Carp problem by placing the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in charge of coordinating a new federal multi-agency effort that includes the National Park Service, U.S. Geological Survey, and Army Corps of Engineers. Agencies will provide high-level technical assistance to support state and local governments that are working to protect economies and ecosystems in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins from Asian carp. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. #### Endorsement Quotes "Friends of Pool 2 would like to thank Congresswomen Betty McCollum and Congressman Mike Kelly for re-introducing the bipartisan bill Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act (H.R.358). We appreciate their leadership in the ongoing fight against the Asian Carp invasion. Friends of Pool 2 have been calling for federal involvement with this issue from our inception. This bill, if passed, offers affected states along the Mississippi River the federal leadership required to address the problem of invasive species with a unified voice. We feel this is the right answer for success in stopping the Asian Carp's advance up the Mississippi River towards pool 2." -- Kevin ChapdeLaine, President, Friends of Pool 2 “To preserve nature’s balance, we must stop the spread of Asian Carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio river basins. Audubon supports strong federal leadership in developing a cooperative, multi-agency effort to help abate this threat and its impact on sensitive ecosystems.” -- Chris Canfield, Vice President, National Audubon Society’s Mississippi Flyway “We applaud the leadership of Representatives McCollum and Kelly for introducing legislation that will coordinate federal efforts to protect our waterways from Asian Carp invaders. This is an important first step toward protecting Minnesota’s proud outdoor recreation tradition, preserving our native fish populations, and national park sites including the Mississippi National River Recreation Area and St. Croix National Scenic Riverway, which are economic drivers for the region.” -- Christine Goepfert, Upper Midwest Program Manager, National Parks Conservation Association “We commend Congresswoman McCollum and Congressman Kelly for their leadership in giving the USFWS the tools they need to combat this problem in a coordinated and strategic fashion. We must stop Asian carp now – before they swim further into the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River Basins and cause irreparable harm. Delay could be severely problematic for walleye and trout – as well as the millions of people who depend upon these water resources for their jobs and way of life.” -- Marc Smith, Senior Policy Manager, National Wildlife Federation “The Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission is grateful to Congresswoman McCollum and Congressman Kelly for their foresight in trying to get ahead of the Asian carp invasion front on the Ohio River. – John Arway, Executive Director, Pennsylvania Fish and Boat Commission “The spread of invasive species like Asian carp is a serious concern for anglers, and puts at risk the $42 billion recreational fishing economy. This bill is a smart way of getting out ahead of the problem in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins in order to stop the spread of harmful invasive species. Trout Unlimited thanks Rep. McCollum for her leadership to address this important issue and protect our aquatic ecosystems.” – Keith Curley, Director of Government Affairs, Trout Unlimited “The Upper Mississippi Waterway Association supports Rep. McCollum’s Asian carp legislation to equally protect inland river systems and the Great Lakes from further carp infestation. We also support her efforts to have the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service lead a multiagency effort including the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the National Park Service and the U.S. Geological Survey to slow the advance and ultimately eliminate this threat.” – Greg Genz, President, Upper Mississippi Waterway Association
01.23.2013	For Immediate Release: January 23, 2013 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Remains Member of the Interior & Environment Subcommittee Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), a member of the House Appropriations Committee, announced that she will be joining the Subcommittee on Defense in the 113th Congress. Last year, the Defense Subcommittee approved over half a trillion dollars to fund the Department of Defense and the intelligence agencies for fiscal year 2013. In the new Congress, McCollum will retain her position on the Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment and Related Agencies, which provides annual funding for the Department of the Interior, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Bureau of Indian Affairs, and the National Endowment for the Arts. McCollum issued the following statement: “I want to ensure that our military is efficient, effective, and capable of meeting our national security priorities. We need a strong military, but we can’t afford to keep borrowing from China to pay for the Pentagon’s overspending. Now is the time for tough choices, smart cuts, and real deficit reduction that includes cuts to defense spending.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.17.2013	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 or maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding President Obama’s nomination of B. Todd Jones to be Permanent Director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (ATF). “In his position as Acting Director, Mr. Jones’s leadership has brought stability and integrity to the ATF. This agency needs a permanent director, and he is the ideal choice. Congress needs to give the ATF the tools and resources it needs to do its job effectively. The Senate should confirm Mr. Jones as ATF Director as soon as possible.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
01.16.2013	Contact: Maria Reppas, 202-225-6631 WASHINGTON (January 16, 2013) – A contingent of 12 Members of the House of Representatives today filed an amicus brief in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in support of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Resource Extraction Rule. The rule is based on a provision in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The rule is designed to help investors and ensure more stable and growing capital markets through transparency while also combating the developing world’s so-called “resource curse,” where natural resources are squandered by ineffectual or corrupt governments or otherwise fail to benefit local communities. The scourge of many countries in Africa and Asia, this curse currently means that in many developing nations like the Democratic Republic of the Congo, natural resources are used only to benefit a small, often corrupt, political elite. The list of Members signing the amicus brief includes: Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.), Rep. Jim McDermott (D-Wash.), Gregory W. Meeks (D-N.Y.), Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Rep. Jim Moran (D-Va.), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Rep. AndrÃ© Carson (D-Ind.), Rep. Sam Farr (D-Calif.), Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and Rep. Barbara J. Lee (D-Calif.). For a link to the brief filed today, please click here. The filing of this amicus stems from the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010, which mandates in Section 1504 that oil, gas and mining companies listed on US exchanges disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) payments they make to governments for the extraction of oil and mineral resources. After the rule was released, the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Chamber of Commerce, and others jointly filed suit against the SEC, claiming, among other things, that the agency used a flawed cost-benefit analysis and failed to carve out exemptions for non-transparent governments. In the amicus brief filed today, the twelve Members of Congress strongly oppose the claims made by those organizations. In the brief, the lawmakers argue that contrary to the claims of API and the Chamber, the SEC acted with all necessary deliberation and did so consistent with the intent of Congress and the mandates of the law. As the Members argue in the brief: “Congress and the Commission have had good reason for devoting so much time and energy to requiring corporate disclosures: increased disclosure goes to the very heart of the Commission’s mission to protect investors and the markets. Undisclosed payments are corrosive to free enterprise. They destroy trust and transparency. They obscure valuations and penalize sensible business practices. Investors and the public need to be able to fully evaluate whether a company has properly addressed the commercial, political, and legal risks it faces when operating around the globe in environments where corruption is rife and rule of law weak. The Resource Extraction Rule, and the country-by-country and project-by-project data that will be disclosed under it, are critical to giving investors and the public the ability to make these evaluations.” Congress passed Section 1504 of Dodd-Frank as part of an effort to combat the developing world’s “resource curse.” The Resource Extraction Rule should also prove a boon to domestic investors and the American public as it will shine a light on some of the commercial, political, and legal risks that companies may face related to their investments. “It is true that the Resource Extraction Rule will help reduce corruption and aid in the alleviating of the Resource Curse for developing countries. But it will also shine a light for investors on the true value of a company’s oil, gas, and mining projects. There is information that will be disclosed under the Resource Extraction Rule that is material information for investors; there can be no doubt that the Commission is the proper organization to release and enforce the rule as mandated by Congress.” In June, a bipartisan contingent of more than 55 Members of the House sent a letter to the SEC calling for the Commission to finally release the Resource Extraction Rule. The Commission voted to promulgate the rule in August 2012. A copy of that letter is available HERE. The brief was filed in the case of American Petroleum Institute v. Securities and Exchange Commission, Docket Number 12-1398. Rep. Markey is the Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. Rep. Waters is the Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. Rep. Engel is the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Rep. McDermott is the Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee’s Subcommittee on Trade. ####
01.16.2013	In 2012, our country suffered 16 mass shootings with 151 fatalities. The brutal trend is a symptom of a larger problem: widespread gun violence. All Members of Congress have a duty to their constituents to address specific legal loopholes that allow dangerous individuals to commit violent acts with guns. As we begin the 113th Congress, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) supports legislation aimed at making our communities safer while protecting the rights of responsible gun owners. The list below includes the bills in the 113th Congress that she currently supports. __________________________________________________________________ H.R. 137 – The Fix Gun Checks Act: Ensures that all individuals who should be prohibited from buying a firearm are listed in the national instant criminal background check system and require a background check for every firearm sale.[Cosponsored on January 14, 2013] H.R. 138 - The Large Capacity Ammunition Feeding Device Act: Prohibits the transfer, importation, or possession of high capacity magazines manufactured after the bill is enacted. This bill allows individuals who currently own the devices to legally retain possession but works to prevent the spread of the devices by making it illegal to transfer them to another individual. [Cosponsored on January 8, 2013] H.R. 93 – The Fire Sale Loophole Closing Act: Amends chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to restrict the ability of a person whose Federal license to import, manufacture, or deal in firearms has been revoked, whose application to renew such a license has been denied, or who has received a license revocation or renewal denial notice, to transfer business inventory firearms, and for other purposes. [Cosponsored on January 7, 2013] Letter to Vice President Joseph Biden - Along with Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro, Congresswoman Nita Lowey, and Congresswoman Barbara Lee, I sent a letter to the Vice President urging him to include a proposal for enhanced research on gun-related violence by the Department of Health and Human Services in his recommendations to the President. (Letter sent January 11, 2013)
01.11.2013	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE January 11, 2013 CONTACT:Maria Reppas (McCollum) 202-225-6631 Current Law Has “Chilling Effect” on Current Data Compilation, Analysis WASHINGTON, DC—Leading Democratic members of the House Appropriations Committee today wrote to Vice President Biden, urging him to include a proposal promoting increased research on firearms by the Health and Human Services Department. Since 1997, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has been under a chilling restriction that effectively keeps it from conducting any research or analysis related to gun violence. “Current law has a chilling effect on the CDC Center for Injury Prevention and Control which compiles and analyzes data in order to help protect people from deaths and injuries both accidental and intentional,” said Labor-Health and Human Services-Education Subcommittee Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro (D-CT), Full Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey (D-NY) and Representatives Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Betty McCollum (D-MN) in a joint statement. “The Center, which examines issues such as motor vehicle accidents, prescription drug overdoses and child abuse that leads to initiatives aimed at preventing related deaths and injuries effectively cannot do similar work when it comes to gun-related violence because of this prohibition. As a result, U.S. scientists cannot answer the most basic questions about how to prevent firearm injuries.” The congressman responsible for inserting the language, former Representative Jay Dickey (R-AR), has even repudiated the provision, in a recent Washington Post op-ed authored with the former head of the CDC’s Center for Injury Prevention and Control. The full letter to Vice President Biden is as follows: January 11, 2013 The Honorable Joseph R. BidenVice President of the United States1600 Pennsylvania Ave. NWWashington, DC 20501 Dear Vice President Biden: Thank you for your leadership in seeking to address the senseless tragedies this nation experiences as a result of gun violence. We write to draw your attention to annual appropriations language that effectively prevents the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) from conducting research or statistical analysis related to gun violence. As you may know, language was first enacted in Fiscal Year 1997 appropriations law preventing the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) from using funds “in whole or in part, to advocate or promote gun control.” The restriction has been included in the appropriations bills continuously since that time, broadening to cover the whole of HHS in Fiscal Year 2012. Although the law does not legally prohibit data collection on gun violence, it has a chilling effect on the CDC Center for Injury Prevention and Control which compiles and analyzes data in order to help protect people from deaths and injuries both accidental and intentional. The Center, which examines issues such as motor vehicle accidents, prescription drug overdoses and child abuse that leads to initiatives aimed at preventing related deaths and injuries effectively cannot do similar work when it comes to gun-related violence because of this prohibition. As a result, U.S. scientists cannot answer the most basic questions about how to prevent firearm injuries. This point was recognized in an opinion piece published on July 27, 2012 in the Washington Post following the tragic shooting at a theater in Aurora, CO by the sponsor of the original restriction on CDC, former Representative Jay Dickey (R-AR), and the Director of the Center for Injury Prevention and Control at the time, Mark Rosenberg. In the piece, they note that prior to the restriction, CDC conducted “high-quality, peer-reviewed research into the underlying causes of gun violence.” Yet, as a consequence of the appropriations language, “U.S. scientists cannot answer the most basic question: What works to prevent firearm injuries? We don’t know whether having more citizens’ carry guns would decrease or increase firearm deaths; or whether firearm registration and licensing would make inner-city residents safer or expose them to greater harm. We don’t know whether a ban on assault weapons or large-capacity magazines, or limiting access to ammunition, would have saved lives in Aurora or would make it riskier for people to go to a movie. And we don’t know how to effectively restrict access to firearms by those with serious mental illness.” We conduct evidence-based research into car crashes, drowning, poisoning, child abuse, and all other causes of accidents and injuries. We should be doing the same kind of research in order to determine how best to prevent firearm injuries and save lives. Accordingly, we strongly urge you to include a proposal recommending the end of this appropriations restriction and enhanced research on gun-related violence as part of your Task Force’s upcoming recommendations. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Rosa DeLauroNita LoweyBarbara LeeBetty McCollum
01.02.2013	Washington, DC – Early this morning the U.S. Senate passed bipartisan legislation by a vote of 89 to 8 protecting 98% of Americans from “fiscal cliff” tax increases while allowing tax rates to rise on millionaires and billionaires. Tonight, the U.S. House will vote on same legislation, the “American Taxpayers Relief Act of 2012.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum will vote in favor of the bipartisan agreement to protect middle class taxpayers. She issued the following statement: “Tonight I am voting to pass a bipartisan compromise that protects middle class taxpayers from a tax increase and at the same time keeps a promise to preserve Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security. With this agreement, Republicans and Democrats are voting to increase tax rates on the wealthiest 2% of Americans, raising $620 billion in revenues to allow continued investments in education, renewable energy, and job creation.” “This bill extends help for the unemployed and much needed tax credits for students, parents, and alternative energy producers which I strongly support. Yet, in such a compromise bill there is always the excess and the unnecessary waste like millions in tax credits for NASCAR and motorsports raceways and rum producers in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. These are examples of special interest waste that should be eliminated in future tax reform legislation.” “I want to applaud the work of President Obama and Vice President Biden in forging an agreement that never deviated from the principles they fought for during the past four years in the White House and on the campaign trail last year.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committees. ####
12.27.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum returned to Washington, DC yesterday as the “fiscal cliff” deadline approaches on January 1, 2013. She issued the following statement urging all Members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, to return to Washington to press President Obama, Senator Majority Leader Harry Reid, and U.S. House Speaker John Boehner for an agreement to protect middle class taxpayer from higher taxes in the New Year. “Americans are now back to work following the Christmas holiday and it’s time for Congress to do the same and immediately return to Washington to pass an extension of the middle class tax cuts, protecting 98% of American taxpayers. If House leadership is unwilling to act then rank and file House members have an obligation to turn up the pressure. Congress should pass the middle class tax cut extension this weekend while allowing negotiations to continue on the other elements of the ‘fiscal cliff’ that require more time.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committee. ####
12.27.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum returned to Washington, DC yesterday as the “fiscal cliff” deadline approaches on January 1, 2013. She issued the following statement urging all Members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, to return to Washington to press President Obama, Senator Majority Leader Harry Reid, and U.S. House Speaker John Boehner for an agreement to protect middle class taxpayer from higher taxes in the New Year. “Americans are now back to work following the Christmas holiday and it’s time for Congress to do the same and immediately return to Washington to pass an extension of the middle class tax cuts, protecting 98% of American taxpayers. If House leadership is unwilling to act then rank and file House members have an obligation to turn up the pressure. Congress should pass the middle class tax cut extension this weekend while allowing negotiations to continue on the other elements of the ‘fiscal cliff’ that require more time.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committees. ####
12.21.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement in response to today’s press conference by Mr. Wayne LaPierre, the National Rifle Association’s (NRA) executive vice president: “No legal organization in America is more responsible than the NRA for lobbying to ensure the proliferation of killer guns while denying law enforcement tools to stop killers. Wayne LaPierre’s call for guards and guns in every school building and playground is madness and a perverse vision for life in America.” “In Congress, we need to move forward comprehensive legislation that bans assault weapons, closes the gun show loop hole, prohibits high capacity magazines, and gives law enforcement the tools to keep guns out of the hands of the mentally ill. At the same time, Congress will protect the rights of responsible gun owners and hunters.” “It is time for common sense Americans to come together to stop the NRA and make America’s neighborhoods and streets safer.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Committees. ####
12.14.2012	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement regarding the mass shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut. “Today’s elementary school shooting is heartbreaking. As a mother, the mass murder of young school children and educators is incomprehensible. My prayers are with all families of the victims.” “The time has come for President Obama, Congress and the American people to come together to act immediately to end the epidemic of gun violence and the proliferation of guns designed to be weapons of mass murder. Inaction and obstruction by the National Rifle Association (NRA) to common sense gun laws is not tolerable.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.13.2012	For Immediate Release: December 13, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – U.S. Reps. Ron Kind (D-WI), Bruce Braley (D-IA) and Betty McCollum (D-MN) today led a letter with a bipartisan group of 17 of their colleagues asking President Obama and House leadership to examine and build upon cost saving measures in the Affordable Care Act when addressing the fiscal cliff. “Health care is the largest and fastest growing area of spending in the federal budget,” said Rep. Kind. “To find savings we have to go where the money is. That means building off of the reforms in the Affordable Care Act that transition our health care system from fee-for-service to one that provides better care at a better cost. This is the best long-term solution to controlling costs and improving patient care.” They write, “A recent Institute of Medicine (IOM) study shows that 30 percent of health care dollars are wasted. The IOM estimated the total waste and inefficiency in our health care system amounts to $750 billion every year. We believe it’s possible to continue reducing health care costs and improve quality by further changing how we pay for health care. We again urge you to further expand value based payments to incentivize higher-quality, lower-cost care as part of any agreement reached to eliminate or delay the fiscal cliff. ” “Reforming how healthcare providers are paid for their services could save taxpayers billions of dollars,” said Rep. Bruce Braley. “With potential savings that big, we can’t afford to keep health care payment reforms out of the fiscal cliff negotiations. By incentivizing health care quality over health care quantity, we can improve patient outcomes and cut government spending. That’s a win-win.” “Indiscriminate, across-the-board cuts to hospitals, physicians, and other providers will do nothing to stop the waste and inefficiency that currently plague our health care system,” said Rep. Betty McCollum. “Only the value-based reforms included in the Affordable Care Act will effectively reduce rising health care costs and reward providers that deliver quality, patient-centered care.” Wisconsin Representatives Sean Duffy (WI-7), Gwen Moore (WI-4), Tom Petri (WI-6), Jim Sensenbrenner (WI-5) and Reid Ribble (WI-8) have also signed the letter. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.04.2012	Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum), 202-225-6631 An estimated 695,000 children were victims of child abuse in 2010, and yet studies indicate that many child protection professionals – such as teachers, doctors, and prosecutors – are not adequately trained to identify and respond to abuse The National Child Protection Training Center in Winona, MN would become one of four regional training centers that would create new curricula to help those who are most likely to be involved in identifying abuse Washington, D.C. – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and Representatives Tim Walz and Betty McCollum today introduced bipartisan legislation to help train child protection professionals to detect and prevent child abuse. The bill would create regional training centers – including the National Child Protection Training Center in Winona, MN – that would create new curricula for undergraduates and graduates in fields where they will most likely be involved in identifying and reporting cases of abuse. The legislation also increases coordination between federal, state and local officials in creating best practices for the training of child protection professionals. Senator Klobuchar authored the legislation in the Senate and Representative Walz introduced companion legislation in the House of Representatives. “As a former prosecutor, I know that child abuse is a life and death issue,” Klobuchar said. “This legislation is an important step in helping teachers, doctors, and others who work with children to identify and respond to child abuse, and will allow the National Child Protection Training Center at Winona State to continue to lead the way in developing new programs to equip child protection professionals with the knowledge and skills they need to keep children safe.” “As a parent, there is nothing I value more than the safety of our kids,” said Sen. Franken. "Hundreds of thousands of children each year are victims of child abuse, but sadly, some of the people best positioned to help aren’t adequately trained. This bill will mean more kids who are in danger will get the help they need, by creating needed training centers, just like Minnesota’s Winona State training center that helps educate the folks closest to our children on how to put an end to abuse.” “As a parent and a teacher, protecting our children is a top priority for me. The work of the National Child Protection Training Center at Winona State is essential to ending child abuse and I am proud to represent this outstanding organization. This legislation will help the NCPTC further their work to significantly reduce and end child abuse across the country,” Walz said. “Strengthening programs that investigate child abuse and offer assistance to victims is essential to protecting children and families. This legislation will address the need for better coordination between law enforcement, educators, and doctors in combating child abuse nationwide,” McCollum said. According to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, an estimated 695,000 children were victims of child abuse in 2010. Yet studies indicate that those in the best position to identify and respond to child abuse – such as teachers, doctors, and prosecutors – are often not adequately trained to do so. For example, a 2001 survey of teachers found that 74% received minimal training on child abuse while earning their degrees and 58% had minimal training on the job. The National Child Protection Training Act directs the Attorney General to coordinate with the National Child Protection Training Center to operate at least four regional training centers – including the National Child Protection Training Center in Winona, MN – to be affiliated with universities, colleges, or community colleges. The regional training centers will be required to: Develop undergraduate and graduate curricula on child maltreatment; Disseminate curricula to colleges, law schools, medical schools, seminaries, and other institutions of higher education; Develop ‘‘laboratory’’ training facilities that include mock houses, medical facilities, courtrooms, and forensic interview rooms that provide a real world experience to students and professionals; Assist communities in developing child abuse prevention programs; and Assist states in developing forensic interview training programs. In addition to Senators Klobuchar and Franken and Representatives Walz and McCollum, the legislation is co-sponsored by Senators Mark Pryor (D-AR), John Boozman (R-AR), and Representative Steve Womack (R-AR). Klobuchar served for eight years as the chief prosecutor for Hennepin County, serving more than one million residents in Minneapolis and 45 suburban communities. Her responsibilities included prosecuting child abuse cases, and she also sponsored an initiative to improve the response to child abuse by strengthening the working relationships among police, prosecutors, child protection workers, educators and health care providers. Klobuchar is the Chair of the Subcommittee on Administrative Oversight of the Courts, which oversees the Department of Justice’s programs. Klobuchar has also helped secure over $2 million for the National Child Protection Training Center in Winona in recent years. ###
12.01.2012	Each year, we take a moment on December 1 to recognize the millions of individuals worldwide living with HIV/AIDS and also remember the countless loved ones we have lost. Over the past 30 years, the World AIDS Community has come together to discover new treatments, promote prevention, and fight discrimination. While we have had remarkable successes, our work is not done and new goals lie within our reach. Earlier this week, I was fortunate to reconnect with Florence Ngobeni, a mother living with HIV in South Africa. After the tragic death of her young daughter, Florence dedicated her life to ensuring no more mothers would endure the pain of losing a child to HIV/AIDS. An ambassador for the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, her passion and commitment are inspiration to me and so many others. I am encouraged by so many community leaders, researchers, activists, health professionals, and caregivers I have met over the years, both in Minnesota and around the world. These champions have made ending this horrible epidemic and caring for those with the disease their life mission. As we look forward, I am committed to continuing our progress and working with leaders like Florence to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS and one day finding a cure. ####
11.11.2012	For Immediate Release: November 11, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Sunday, November 11th marks the annual commemoration of Veterans Day. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, issued the following statement: “On this Veterans Day, we remember the patriotic sacrifices of those who have served in Iraq, Afghanistan, the Persian Gulf, Vietnam, Korea, World War II, and anywhere U.S. forces have fought for freedom. Without the brave efforts of all our armed forces and their families, our country would not live so freely.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.26.2012	For Immediate Release: October 26, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Tomorrow, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) will join U.S. Navy officials, staff from Newport News Shipbuilding, and representatives from Huntington Ingalls Industries in pre-commissioning of the USS Minnesota – a 377 foot long, nuclear-powered submarine. The U.S. Navy named the USS Minnesota in honor of our state's continual support of the armed forces. “Residents of my state share tremendous pride as the USS Minnesota becomes the newest vessel in the most powerful U.S. Naval fleet in our nation’s history,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “To the craftsmen and women who built this magnificent vessel – congratulations on a job well done. To Commander Fancher and the 120 officers and crew who will sail this submarine – Godspeed.” Among its numerous capabilities, the USS Minnesota will be: able to reach submerged speeds faster than 25 knots (almost 30 MPH); remain underwater for up to three months at a time; and armed with Tomahawk Cruise missiles, MK-48 torpedoes, advanced mobile mines, and an unmanned under sea vehicle. When she begins service at sea, she will have roughly 120 officers and crew. “The christening of this submarine the USS Minnesota is a tribute to the courage of our USS Ward veterans, as well as to the proud service of all Minnesotans in the Navy and other branches of the U.S. Armed Forces,” concluded Congresswoman McCollum. “On behalf of them and all Minnesotans, I say thank you.” To view the ceremony via live webcast, please visit: https://www.livestream.com/usnavy. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.19.2012	For Immediate Release: October 19, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) returned to Capitol Hill to stand up to House GOP leadership’s destructive legislative agenda, which protects America’s wealthiest 1 percent. Throughout the 112th Congress, House Speaker John Boehner and Congressional Republicans have failed to get the job done. “I just got shelved like a binder,” said Congresswoman McCollum, after failing to be recognized to speak on the House floor. She was going to encourage Congress to return to work and address critical issues, including reauthorizing the Violence Against Women Act. In the 112th Congress, the House GOP has spearheaded legislation undermining the rights and health care of women, seniors, and children. These include: Allowing employers and insurance companies to deny women contraceptives and other health care coverage on the basis of a vague “moral conviction.” (H.R. 1179) Voting to eliminate funding for Title X Family Planning. (H.R. 1, 2011 Vote #147, 2/19/11) Voting to eliminate federal funding for Planned Parenthood, while threatening to shut down the entire government. (Pence Amendment to H.R 1, 2011 Vote #93, 2/18/11, H.Con.Res. 36, Vote #271, 4/14/11) Voting to deny hundreds of thousands of women critical cancer screenings. (H.R. 4628, 2012 Vote #195, 4/27/12; H.R. 5652, 2012 Vote #247, 5/10/12) Voting multiple times to once again allow insurance companies to treat being a woman as a pre-existing condition. (H.R. 2, 2011 Vote #14, 1/19/11; H.R. 6079, 2012 Vote #460, 7/11/12) Voting to roll back Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) protections for domestic violence victims. (H.R. 4970, 2012 Vote #258, 5/16/12) Voting to block consideration of the Paycheck Fairness Act. (2012 Vote #297, 5/31/12, PQ vote) Voting six times to end the Medicare guarantee, which would disproportionately hurt older women. (2011 Vote #277, 2011 Vote #382, 2011 Vote #606, 2012 Vote #151, 2012 Vote #156, 2012 Vote #200) Voting in 2011 and 2012 to slash Medicaid by one-third over 10 years, which would be a devastating blow to the health care needs of millions of women and their children. (H.Con.Res. 34, 2011 Vote #277, 4/15/11; H.Con.Res. 112, 2012 Vote #151, 3/29/12) Voting to slash critical nutrition initiatives for pregnant women and their children. (H.R. 1, 2011 Vote #147, 2/19/11) Voting to remove women’s access to full range of health care services and allow hospitals to refuse emergency care to women in certain situations. (H.R. 358, 2011 Vote #789, 10/13/11) Voting to deny tax credits for health coverage as a way to restrict women’s access to full range of health care services. (H.R. 3, 2011 Vote #292, 5/4/11) Voting to deny the women in the District of Columbia their constitutional rights jeopardizing their health. (H.R. 3803, 2012 Vote #539, 7/31/12) Congressman Paul Ryan (R-WI) Participates in House GOP’s Destructive Agenda During the 111th Congress, Congressman Ryan votes against the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. Only three Republicans supported the bill. During the 112th Congress, Congressman Ryan is an original cosponsor of the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act (H.R. 3), which initially redefined rape as “forcible rape”. House GOP Leadership Continues to Do Nothing House Republican leadership has already left Capitol Hill – the earliest adjournment date in a generation – without addressing our nation’s most pressing issues, including: A Jobs Agenda: Republicans have been in control of the House for over 600 days and still don’t have a plan to get Americans back to work. They’ve consistently ignored efforts by the President and Democrats in Congress – like the American Jobs Act – that would create jobs and help grow the economy for everyone. Instead, they’ve focused on an extreme partisan agenda, voting to weaken laws that protect the environment and American families from abusive business practices, and fighting to protect tax breaks for Big Oil and companies that ship U.S. jobs overseas. Middle Class Tax Cut: House Republicans continue to hold tax cuts for middle class Americans hostage as a bargaining chip so that the very wealthiest Americans don’t have to pay their fair share. Deficit Reduction / Sequestration: Each day that Congress is not in session, our economy moves closer to the fiscal cliff. If Republicans were serious about deficit reduction, they would join us to pass a bipartisan balanced deficit reduction package, instead of walking away from the table time and time again. Farm Bill: In June, Senate Republicans and Democrats joined to pass a bipartisan long-term farm bill. Since then, the bill has languished as Republican Leadership in the House has held it hostage for their partisan agenda. With the country still struggling under the largest draught in 50 years, it’s long past time for Congress to provide farmers with the certainty and relief they need. Medicare Payments for Doctors: If Congress doesn’t act soon to prevent a steep cut in Medicare payments to doctors, seniors across the country could see their options for quality healthcare decrease. Violence Against Women Act: While the Senate passed a bipartisan extension of the successful Violence Against Women Act, House Republicans have tried to gut the protection in the law, refusing to put the Senate bill up for a vote. Post Office Reform: By refusing to address the postal reforms necessary to keep our postal system operating smoothly, Republican inaction contributed to the first U.S. Post Office default in history. Relief for Underwater Homeowners: The GOP continues to be more concerned about giving Big Banks and Wall Street free reign to engage in the types of practices that got us into this mess than it does in helping underwater homeowners on Main St. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.16.2012	For Immediate Release: October 16, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – On Saturday, George S. Pillsbury – former state senator, philanthropist, business leader, veteran, and civic leader – passed away at his home in Wayzata, Minnesota. A business leader and prominent Republican, Mr. Pillsbury worked for bipartisan solutions and demonstrated a commitment to civic and civil leadership as he worked to protect reproductive rights for women, gay marriage, the arts, and education. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “George Pillsbury was a kind, thoughtful, and extremely generous political and civic leader in the best tradition of Minnesota. I am particularly grateful for George’s leadership and long commitment to women’s reproductive health issues. His many contributions to the quality of life in Minnesota are deeply appreciated by me, and I feel a true debt of gratitude. I wish to extend my most sincere sympathies to Sally and the entire Pillsbury family.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.12.2012	ST. PAUL, MN, OCTOBER 12, 2012 — With the aid of federal and state grants, and a generous partnership with the City of Saint Paul, Ramsey County has installed 35 Minnesota-made solar thermal panels on the roof of the Law Enforcement Center in St. Paul. These panels will generate 40 percent of the facility’s annual hot water needs. The $230,000 project will help Ramsey County broaden its energy sources and fits with the Energy Management and Stewardship Plan that the Ramsey County Board adopted in March 2011. The new solar thermal system, manufactured by Solar Skies, helps Ramsey County put clean energy to use to further reduce the county’s carbon emissions. “Ramsey County has adopted an Energy Management and Stewardship Plan and this solar thermal project, along with the energy efficiency improvements that have been made to this building over the past few years, is proof that we are serious about good stewardship of our natural resources,” said Ramsey County Commissioner Victoria Reinhardt. “Thanks to dedicated partners like the U.S. Department of Energy, Minnesota Department of Commerce, the City of St. Paul, District Energy and Representative Betty McCollum, we are creating a cleaner, more sustainable Ramsey County.” The project was funded by a grant to the City of St. Paul from the U.S. Department of Energy and the Minnesota Department of Commerce through the American Reinvestment and Recovery Act (ARRA) of 2009. “Ramsey County’s new solar investment is a win for everyone,” said Rep. McCollum. “It saves taxpayers money, reduces air pollution, and increases our energy security. This project has already supported jobs in our state because these solar panels were made right here in Minnesota.” This is the first solar thermal installation of this size in District Energy St. Paul’s network. It serves as a demonstration project for other, small- to medium-sized buildings in their system. The Law Enforcement Center complex now utilizes two renewable energy technologies – District Energy’s cogeneration and solar thermal. -30- Photos available https://dl.dropbox.com/u/15866671/LECSolarPhotos.zip. (Photo credit: Westwood Professional Services)
10.11.2012	MINNEAPOLIS – Oct. 10, 2012 – Flashing the “Green Line” moniker, the first light rail vehicle (LRV) built for the Central Corridor LRT line arrived today at Target Field Station, its bell ringing with abandon. Pre-recorded steam engine whistles and chug-a-chug-a sounds broadcast over the station’s speakers and public officials greeted No. 201 as the sleek and exhaust-free electrically operated LRV glided quietly to a stop next to a recently repainted Hiawatha LRV waiting at the station. Both sported the new METRO logo identifying them as part of the color-coded system of light rail and bus rapid transit (BRT) lines. The scene was a far cry from the steam engine era that ended over half a century ago. Metropolitan Council Chair Susan Haigh, U.S. Sen. Amy Klobuchar, U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum, Ramsey County Commissioner Jim McDonough, Hennepin County Commissioner Peter McLaughlin, St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman, Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak and Metro Transit General Manager Brian Lamb then made brief remarks about what the Central Corridor line and the forthcoming METRO transitway network mean. When the Central Corridor LRT project begins service in 2014, it will operate as the “Green Line.” “The arrival of this American-made light rail vehicle is a very visible symbol of the progress we’re making toward finishing the line, which was 74 percent complete by the end of August. We are well on our way to achieving the 75 percent completion milestone this fall, thanks to the skill and dedication of more than 4,000 construction workers over the last three years,” Haigh said. Central Corridor LRT represents a critical investment in the build out of a 21st century transit system. “It will support existing jobs, create new jobs and be a catalyst for future economic growth in our region,” she said. The “Green Line” will provide improved access to five major centers of economic activity - the two downtowns, the University of Minnesota, the Midway district, the state Capitol complex and many neighborhoods in between. Together, the five jobs centers contain almost 280,000 jobs - a number that is expected to grow to 374,000 by 2030. “Investing in a 21st century transportation system is vital to boosting Minnesota’s economy and helping lift up our local communities,” Klobuchar said. “This is an important step in the continued expansion of light rail service to better serve residents and businesses.” Central Corridor is doing its part for job growth. While the project has created opportunities for 4,067 construction workers from more than 60 Minnesota counties and 150 design, engineering and management jobs, the line will create 175 permanent maintenance and operations jobs. The construction jobs alone translate into a $252 million payroll being reinvested on Main Streets through the state. “After a decade of collaboration and hard work, we are one step closer to opening the Central Corridor. This project has already put over 4,000 people to work. When trains start running in two short years, Central Corridor will connect our communities, create even more good jobs and generate new economic vitality throughout our region,” McCollum said. Ramsey County Commissioner Jim McDonough highlighted the major changes coming to St. Paul. “Major attractions in St. Paul, including the nearly finished Union Depot renovation, will be destinations for many riders of the Green Line. But these aren’t the only attractions – the much-improved look and feel of University Avenue will help the corridor between the two downtowns also attract new visitors.” This new LRV is symbolic of what the Twin Cities is working to accomplish through a metropolitan wide transportation blueprint, Hennepin County Commissioner Peter McLaughlin said. “Just a stone’s throw from here is the Interchange construction project. The Interchange is scheduled to open in 2014, the same year this new LRV and the Central Corridor “Green Line” begin revenue operations. It’ll be a huge leap forward for metro-area transit users,” McLauglin said. Both mayors praised light rail for the development opportunities it has brought. “If you’ve traveled Hiawatha, you’ve seen the renaissance of new housing and businesses like the “Oaks” at 46th Street Station and now “Longfellow Station” at 38th Street. Central Corridor has even more potential for redevelopment, especially on the West Bank,” Rybak said. St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman said developers already have started to capitalize on this opportunity with numerous shovel-ready housing projects dotting University Avenue and the downtown area, including the $88 million Penfield housing, hotel and grocery store project under construction. “All that, plus the announcement of the St. Paul Saints ballpark construction project in Lowertown, has generated excitement for both business owners and residents who make downtown and Lowertown their home,” Coleman said. Forty-seven LRVs will be built for the “Green Line.” The region’s first LRT line, Hiawatha, will receive 12 new LRVs as well. The Hiawatha Line will be rebranded the “Blue Line” in the months ahead as that line’s existing 27 LRVs are repainted and station graphics are updated. The combined 59 new LRVs, which cost $3.3 million apiece, will allow both lines to operate three-car trains during peak times and for special events to meet growing ridership demands. The newest LRVs, being built at Siemens’ Sacramento, Calif., plant, will be delivered through April 2014, peaking at four arrivals a month in 2013. “Number 201 represents the next generation of light rail vehicles. It’s considerably lighter than the existing vehicles, requiring less electricity but has improved insulation and other features, making the “Green Line” a fitting name,” said Brian Lamb, Metro Transit general manager. Testing of the new LRVs on Central Corridor tracks will begin in late 2013. The outcome of the tests will determine the line’s opening date in 2014. About the project: The Central Corridor Light Rail Transit Project will link downtown St. Paul and downtown Minneapolis along Washington and University avenues via the state Capitol and the University of Minnesota. Construction began in late summer 2010 on the planned 11-mile Central Corridor line, and service will begin in 2014. The line will connect with the Hiawatha LRT line at the Metrodome station in Minneapolis and the Northstar commuter rail line at the Target Field Station. The Metropolitan Council will be the grantee of federal funds. The regional government agency is charged with building the line in partnership with the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The Central Corridor Management Committee, which includes commissioners from Ramsey and Hennepin counties, the mayors of St. Paul and Minneapolis and the University of Minnesota, provides advice and oversight. Funding is provided by the Federal Transit Administration, Counties Transit Improvement Board, state of Minnesota, Ramsey and Hennepin counties' regional railroad authorities, city of St. Paul, Metropolitan Council and the Central Corridor Funders' Collaborative.. The Central Corridor LRT Project Website is www.centralcorridor.org.
10.05.2012	For Immediate Release: October 5, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Obama, Congressional Democrats Continue Fight to Create Jobs Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Labor issued its monthly jobs report for September 2012, which had good news for Americans. Unemployment is down to 7.8 percent – the lowest it has been in four years. The economy added 114,000 jobs, and an estimated 104,000 of those new jobs were added by the private sector. These outstanding numbers make September the 31st consecutive month of private sector growth. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “The September jobs report proves that President Obama and Congressional Democrats are doing everything possible to get this country back on track. Although this news is commendable, Congress could do much more to help the millions of unemployed Americans who are still seeking work. Yet the House Republican leadership has sent us all home while job creating measures wait for a vote in Washington. Right now, we could be working to pass the Senate’s bipartisan Farm Bill or putting more teachers and firefighters back to work by passing the American Jobs Act. I urge my Congressional colleagues to work with the President to support American workers and keep our economy moving forward.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.04.2012	Chicago (Oct. 4, 2012) – The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency today announced a $1.4 million Great Lakes Restoration Initiative (GLRI) grant to the Minnesota Department of Health (MDH) to reduce mercury exposure risk for women and children who live along Lake Superior’s north shore. Excessive blood mercury levels have been documented in infants in this area. The funding will be used to improve health screening and to develop more effective fish consumption advisories. “Many Great Lakes fish are unsafe to eat because of mercury contamination,” said EPA Regional Administrator and Great Lakes National Program Manager Susan Hedman. “This project will help women make choices that minimize their exposure to mercury, but maximize the health benefits of eating fish.” The Grand Portage Chippewa Tribe and the Sawtooth Mountain Clinics in Grand Portage and Grand Marais, Minnesota will participate in the MDH project. Physicians affiliated with the clinics will survey consenting female patients of childbearing age about fish consumption and test blood mercury levels. Patients will also be counseled to promote safe fish consumption choices. The work supported by the grant will build on an earlier EPA-funded study which was completed last year by MDH. In that study, 1,465 newborns in the Lake Superior Basin – including 139 infants from Wisconsin and 200 from Michigan – were tested for mercury in their blood. The study found that 8 percent of the infants had mercury levels higher than those recommended as safe by EPA. “In our prior study we measured mercury levels in the blood of newborns in the Lake Superior Basin and found that these infants were, in fact, being exposed to mercury,” said Aggie Leitheiser, Assistant Commissioner of Health, Minnesota Department of Health. “We strongly suspect – but we don’t know for certain – that the mercury came from eating fish. The new EPA grant will fund work to identify and test new strategies for addressing this issue.” "Fish are critical to the diets of people all over Minnesota and all around the Great Lakes region – including members of Minnesota's Native Tribes," said Sen. Al Franken. "That's why it's so important that we do everything we can to protect Minnesotans from dangerous contaminants like mercury that can become concentrated in fish. For years, I've been working to support efforts to protect Minnesotans' health and restore the Great Lakes – including the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative – and I'm so pleased that the Minnesota Department of Health and Grand Portage Band of Lake Superior Chippewa have received this funding." “The Great Lakes region has some of the highest levels of mercury in the country. We know this neurotoxin has serious consequences for pregnant women and children. This grant will help the Minnesota Department of Health move forward with a strategic approach to reduce prenatal mercury exposure from fish consumption,” said U.S. Representative Betty McCollum. Today’s announcement is the most recent in a series of announcements to highlight EPA’s 2012 GLRI grants. Over the last three years, the GLRI has provided more than $320 million to clean up toxic contamination in Great Lakes Areas of Concern and to reduce the risks associated with toxic substances in the Great Lakes ecosystem. The GLRI, initially proposed by President Obama in February 2009, is the largest investment in the Great Lakes in more than two decades. More information about the Initiative is available at https://www.glri.us.
09.17.2012	For Immediate Release: September 17, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – From sundown on September 16 to nightfall on September 18 Rosh Hashanah – the Jewish New Year – is celebrated. Rosh Hashanah marks the start of Jewish High Holy Days, and ten days later the Jewish community will celebrate Yom Kippur – the day of atonement. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “On this Rosh Hashanah, I’d like to wish all members of the Jewish faith in Minnesota a peaceful and happy new year. Rosh Hashanah is a time for renewal and spiritual reflection while also looking ahead to the High Holy Days and Yom Kippur. I wish everyone a peaceful and blessed new year.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.14.2012	For Immediate Release: September 14, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum), (202) 225-6631 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov H.R. 6385 Designates Federal Lead Agency and Creates New Multi-Agency Effort Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Congressman Steven LaTourette (R-OH) announced the introduction of the bipartisan Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act (H.R. 6385). This legislation will make the federal government a more effective partner with state and local entities that are working to slow the spread of Asian carp in two of America’s most significant watersheds. “The arrival of Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi River basin represents a significant and immediate threat to Minnesota’s way of life and our billion dollar outdoor recreation economy,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “All levels of government, along with nonprofit and private sector partners, have a role to play in slowing the spread of this invasive species and eventually eliminating it altogether. This legislation ensures the federal government fulfills its responsibility to be an engaged, effective and accountable partner with Minnesota and other states in our fight against Asian carp.” "We cannot allow Asian Carp to wreak havoc on the Great Lakes and devastate the recreational boating and sport fishing economy," Congressman LaTourette said. "The federal government should play a key role to prevent and control the invasion of the prolifically breeding, ravenously hungry Asian Carp." Several federal agencies now have a role in efforts to stop Asian carp in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River Basins, including the National Park Service, Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Geological Survey, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. However, none of these agencies have been designated as the lead agency to coordinate and focus the federal response with state and local partners. In a roundtable Congresswoman McCollum convened at the University of Minnesota in July 2012, Minnesota conservation leaders said the success of their efforts to confront the spread of Asian carp relies on improved leadership and support at the federal level. The White House and House Appropriations Committee recognized the limitations of the current federal approach to Asian carp in these regions and worked with Congresswoman McCollum to craft a solution. The Strategic Response to Asian Carp Invasion Act responds to the needs of Minnesota and 15 other states by placing the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in charge of coordinating a new federal multi-agency effort that includes the National Park Service, U.S. Geological Survey, and Army Corps of Engineers. These agencies will provide high-level technical assistance, coordination, best practices, and other means of support to state and local governments that are working to protect economies and ecosystems in the Upper Mississippi and Ohio River basins from Asian carp. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.12.2012	For Immediate Release: September 12, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – The killing of four State Department officials in Libya, including U.S. Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens, was condemned today by Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN). The diplomats died following a violent attack by an armed mob on the American Consulate in Benghazi in response to an anti-Muslim video circulated on the internet. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “The only response to the killing of U.S. diplomats in Libya can be a strong condemnation of the murderous violence and an expression of tremendous sorrow for the loss of four courageous Americans. Every day around the world, thousands of U.S. diplomats serve our nation, bravely represent American values, and selflessly engage on our behalf in places both friendly and hostile. I honor the service, courage, and sacrifice of the four diplomats killed. I extend my sincerest condolences to their families and friends. “At a time of national grief, it is distasteful and undignified to hear a candidate for the White House criticizing President Obama and the actions of diplomats as hostile crowds threaten our embassy. Now is a time to stand together as Americans and remember those who have sacrificed their lives for our country.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.11.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C.— What: USGS Coalition Congressional Reception Honoring Representatives McCollum and LaTourette When: Wednesday, 12 September 2012, 5:30 – 7:30 p.m. Where: Rayburn Foyer, Rayburn House Office Building In honor of their long-term support for the scientific programs and personnel of the United States Geological Survey (USGS), Representatives Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Steven LaTourette (R-OH) will be presented with the USGS Coalition’s Leadership Award. The award will be presented during the Coalition’s annual reception on 12 September from 5:30 to 7:30 p.m. in the Rayburn House Office Building’s Rayburn Foyer. During the reception USGS scientists and their collaborative partners will discuss the vital work the agency conducts in the biological, geographical, geological, and hydrological sciences. “We are pleased to recognize Representatives LaTourette and McCollum for their sustained efforts to champion the scientific programs of the United States Geological Survey. Their leadership in Congress has helped increase awareness of the USGS,” stated Dr. Robert Gropp, chair of the USGS Coalition and director of public policy at the American Institute of Biological Sciences. “Representatives McCollum and LaTourette clearly understand that USGS research in biology, geology, water and geography provides the American people with vitally important information every day. USGS research and information contribute to economic growth, improve the public health and safety, and enhance our ability to wisely manage our natural resources.” Congressman LaTourette is serving his ninth term in the U.S. House of Representatives and represents Northeast Ohio's 14th Congressional District. He serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, which oversees funding for the USGS and other Department of Interior programs. As a member of the subcommittee, LaTourette plays an important role in ensuring that the USGS has the resources it needs to provide the department and the nation with the scientific information required to make informed decisions. He emphasizes effective use of tax dollars in the management of these natural and cultural resources with a keen understanding that these resources also enhance economic development. "I'm flattered by the award. I truly believe the only way we can protect our country's greatest natural resources is to understand them better. It's one of the reasons I'm such a huge fan of the USGS work and have been a proud supporter of it for these past 18 years in Congress," states Congressman LaTourette. Representative McCollum is serving her sixth term in the U.S. House of Representatives, representing Minnesota’s 4th District. In 2000, Congresswoman McCollum made history as the second Minnesota woman elected to serve in Congress since statehood in 1858. She serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, which oversees funding for the USGS. Her strong support of USGS science to manage natural resources and improve clean energy technologies emphasizes her commitment to environmental stewardship and global economic competiveness. Representative McCollum attests, “It is an honor to be recognized by the U.S. Geological Survey Coalition for the work we do together to wisely manage America’s natural resources so that we can improve public health and grow our economy. Communities and businesses across our country rely on the scientific information USGS provides to make informed decisions. I will continue working with my Republican and Democratic colleagues in Congress to ensure USGS has the resources it needs to serve the American people.” Members of the news media interested in attending the reception or receiving additional information about the USGS Coalition should contact Joan Buhrman at jbuhrman@agu.org or 202-777-7509. ### The USGS Coalition is an alliance of over 70 organizations united by a commitment to the continued vitality of the United States Geological Survey and its ability to provide critical data and services to the nation. The Coalition supports increased federal investment in USGS programs that underpin responsible natural resource stewardship, improve resilience to natural and human-induced hazards, and contribute to the longterm health, security, and prosperity of the nation.
09.11.2012	For Immediate Release: September 11, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) commemorated the 11th anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. “Today, at the U.S. Capitol and around the country, our American flag flies at half staff in honor and remembrance of the victims, the heroes, and the families who lost so much on September 11, 2001. In the 11 years since that tragic morning, the world has changed, but the heroism and courage of the American people has time and again triumphed. We live in a blessed and strong country in which every citizen owes a special debt of gratitude for the service and sacrifice of the tireless first-responders, brave troops fighting for freedom, and others who fight to protect our national security.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.07.2012	For Immediate Release: September 7, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. Department of Labor released employment data for August 2012. The latest report found that the economy added roughly 96,000 jobs and unemployment decreased to 8.1 percent. Private businesses added 103,000 jobs, making August the 30th month of private sector job growth and increasing the total job growth over that period to 4.6 million jobs. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: “For the 30th straight month private sector jobs continue to be added to the economy. While this is evidence that our nation’s economic recovery is progressing, we also know that too many American families are still struggling. President Obama deserves credit for tirelessly fighting to restore this economy and help middle class families. His work is in sharp contrast to House Republicans who have obstructed and prevented any jobs legislation supported by President Obama and Democrats from passing Congress and helping middle class families. In spite of blatantly partisan efforts to stall and prevent job growth by the Tea Party Republicans, Democrats will keep working to rebuild this economy.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.27.2012	St. Paul, MN – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) today issued the following statement upon learning of the death of the Hon. Stanley Crooks, Chairman of the Mdewakanton Sioux Community: “The passing Chairman Stanley Crooks is a tremendous loss for Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community, for all tribal Nations, and for anyone who worked closely with him. Chairman Crooks’ leadership transformed his community and made him a highly respected national figure. Chairman Crooks touched many, many lives in a way that gave hope, opportunity, and dignity to Native American families and communities in need. He was a visionary and a proud leader for whom I have tremendous appreciation, respect, and fondness. I would like to extend my prayers and deepest sympathies to Chairman Crooks’ family, the entire Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community, and all who encountered his generosity and profound spirit.” #### Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.
08.16.2012	For Immediate Release: August 16, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, offering condolences to the families of the seven American service members who were killed today in a helicopter crash in southern Afghanistan. The helicopter was patrolling an area in the Kandahar province when it crashed. “Ensuring security and combating extremists in Afghanistan are ongoing challenges for our military. All of the victims of this helicopter crash were bravely serving the United States and Afghanistan when they were killed. These heroic members of our military and their families are in my thoughts and prayers.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.06.2012	For Immediate Release: August 6, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov St. Paul, MN – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the recent shooting at the Sikh temple in Oak Creek, Wisconsin. “It is with great sadness that I extend my condolences and prayers to the families and friends of the victims of the shooting yesterday at the Sikh Temple of Oak Creek, Wisconsin. Sikh-Americans across the country have my full support as we all grieve for those lost. “I also wish to extend my prayers for a full recovery to the law enforcement officer who was wounded while courageously responding to this atrocity. His heroic sacrifice is to be honored. “Once again our nation has witnessed a mass murder by a madman with a gun in his hand. It is time for a serious national dialogue and thoughtful action by Congress to keep guns out of the hands of people who would use them for violence. If we do not act responsibly and with urgency, every community and every family will continue to be in danger of being randomly victimized in a theater, praying at a temple or church, or in a school – anywhere. The madness of gun violence must stop.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.06.2012	For Immediate Release: August 6, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Last week, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) introduced legislation to change the rules of the U.S. House in order to expand the jurisdiction of the Committee on Small Business to include nonprofit organizations. H. Res. 768 calls for the establishment of a Committee on Small Business and Nonprofit Organizations. McCollum is urging House members to support this expansion of committee jurisdiction when the 113th Congress commences in January 2013. Nonprofit organizations are vital community employers providing services that are critical to our nation’s economy. Many Americans would be surprised to learn there is no committee in the U.S. House responsible for supporting the success of the nonprofit sector. That means Congress is ignoring the nonprofit sector’s vital contribution to the U.S. economy: Employing nearly 10% of all American workers. Generating 5.5% of U.S. Gross Domestic Product. Supporting local jobs by purchasing billions of dollars in goods and services in their communities every year. Delivering billions of dollars in services on behalf of local, state, and federal governments. With 35,000 nonprofit organizations located in Minnesota alone, McCollum said, “Main streets across our country are filled with small businesses and nonprofit organizations. Both are vital employers working to keep families and community’s strong and successful. Congress needs to be strengthening all small employers that help to keep our communities vibrant and growing.” As employers, nonprofit organizations have much in common with small businesses. Nonprofits and small businesses face similar management challenges in the areas of human resources, information technology, and customer service. Both exist to meet the needs of local communities. Government at the federal, state and local levels contract with nonprofits and small business for services and program delivery. Nonprofits also face issues unique to their sector that require attention from Congress. For example, successful nonprofit organizations that want to hire and grow have many fewer public and private sector financing options than for-profit businesses. This prevents nonprofits with innovative and proven programs from expanding. Another important issue is the absence of basic economic information about the nonprofit sector. Currently, the federal government does not collect basic employment data on nonprofit organizations, making it difficult for Congress to understand the significant impact of nonprofits in the U.S. economy and to identify economic trends in the sector. “Nonprofit organizations need and deserve a seat at the table in Congress so their voices can be heard on issues that affect their mission, the communities they serve, and the millions of Americans they employ. In my opinion, the absence of jurisdiction for nonprofit issues in the U.S. House is unacceptable and irresponsible,” said McCollum. At present, the House Ways and Means Committee conducts oversight over nonprofit organizations’ 501(c) tax exempt designation, but no House committee has jurisdiction over all other issues critical to the nonprofit sector. The result is predictable. An entire sector of the U.S. economy is ignored by Congress and, too often, disadvantaged by the legislation it passes. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.02.2012	WASHINGTON (August 2, 2012) – A diverse group of people from across the country came together to honor and celebrate Minnesota Representative Betty McCollum (D, MN-4) as one of America’s Great Outdoors Congressional Champions during Great Outdoors America Week in Washington DC. The Wilderness Society and participating organizations honored Rep. McCollum for her efforts to gain consistent and permanent funding for the Land and Water Conservation Fund and working to protect America’s wild places and green spaces that are critical in reconnecting people to the great outdoors. “Our country’s wilderness areas and natural treasures belong to all of us for our enjoyment and for responsible recreation like hiking, hunting and fishing. As Americans, these lands are a part of us and I protecting them for future generations is a priority for me,” Rep. McCollum said. Representative Betty McCollum has been an outspoken voice for conservation, voting to protect America’s Wilderness areas, and working to ensure that the President has the ability to designate national monuments through the Antiquities Act. She has co-sponsored the Udall-Eisenhower Arctic Wilderness Act (H.R. 139), the Clean Water Protection Act (H.R.1375), America's Red Rock Wilderness Act of 2011 (H.R.1916), and the National Forest Roadless Area Conservation Act (H.R.3465), in addition to other environmental initiatives. “The Wilderness Society recognizes and thanks Representative McCollum for her commitment to protecting the lands that belong to all Americans,” said Paul Spitler, director of Wilderness policy at The Wilderness Society. “Representative McCollum has worked to protect Boundary Waters and other wild places across the United States.” In the heart of Great Outdoors Month, Great Outdoors America Week (June 26th - 28th) brought together outdoor enthusiasts from all walks of life -- high school students and adults, active members of the military and veterans, conservationists and business leaders, hunters and anglers, bikers and boaters -- to celebrate America’s great outdoors, and ask their elected officials to protect our natural heritage. Great Outdoors America Week offered an opportunity for participants to celebrate and advocate for a number of conservation issues, ranging from wilderness and national monument protection to reconnecting inner-city kids to the great outdoors. Great Outdoors America Week serves as another example of the long-standing, bipartisan tradition of conservation in the United States. ###The Wilderness Society is the leading public-lands conservation organization working to protect wilderness and inspire Americans to care for our wild places. Founded in 1935, and now with more than 500,000 members and supporters, TWS has led the effort to permanently protect 110 million acres of wilderness and to ensure sound management of our shared national lands. www.wilderness.org
07.20.2012	For Immediate Release: July 20, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) responded to Congresswoman Michele Bachmann’s recent attacks on the Muslim-Americans. “The baseless and slanderous accusations by Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann – attacking honorable Muslim-Americans in government service working on behalf of the American people, including my dear friend and colleague Congressman Keith Ellison – are malicious and bigoted. This transparent tactic of manufacturing unsubstantiated claims to draw media attention goes beyond incivility by an elected representative; it extends into the realm of abnormal behavior. “It is truly important for Americans of all faiths to reject the hatred, intolerance, and bigotry this shameful episode represents. We live in a country in which Muslims, Christians, Jews, Mormons, Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, and people of all faiths live together in towns, cities, and suburbs as Americans who share common values and work together for a better future. “No one in Congress is more passionate, committed, and forgiving than my brother from Minneapolis, Keith Ellison. He has a heart of gold and a spirit that hungers for justice and righteousness. I am proud to call him a friend and colleague, but I am also proud to stand with him in the face of these hateful accusations. “In the midst of this unfortunate atmosphere is the start of a very special and important time of year for Muslims. Today marks the start of Ramadan – the Muslim holy month. For all Muslims this is a time of fasting, prayer, and family. It is a time for spiritual renewal with God – Allah – and within their community. I would like to respectfully and warmly wish my Muslim friends, colleagues, and all Muslims in Minnesota and across the U.S. a blessed, holy, and peaceful Ramadan.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.18.2012	For Immediate Release: July 18, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Reps. McCollum, Schock Again Team Up to Stop Devastating Impact of Child Marriage Washington, DC –Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) and Congressman Aaron Schock (R-IL) have once again introduced legislation to stem the devastating impact of child marriage on young girls in developing countries. An estimated 10 million girls are married before the age of 18 each year, some as young as 7. The McCollum-Schock International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act, H.R. 6087, promotes and protects the rights of girls in the developing world. H.R. 6087 declares child marriage to be a human rights abuse, establishes a strategy to prevent child marriage and promote the empowerment of girls, integrates the issue of preventing child marriage into existing US development programs, and requires that relevant agencies collect and make available data on the rates of child marriage and its impact on meeting key development goals. “Child marriage condemns tens of millions of young girls in developing countries to a life of poverty and suffering,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “The United States must be a leader in ending this human rights abuse. The Senate has done its job. Now it is up to the House to pass this bill.” “This is a tragedy that is happening on an epic scale around the world, and this issue doesn’t receive the attention in the U.S. that it deserves,” said Congressman Aaron Schock. “On my trip with CARE to Ethiopia two years ago, I saw first-hand how child marriage devastates young girls physically and emotionally, and destroys any future economic opportunity they once possessed. Girls whose bodies are not yet fully grown having babies frequently causes fistulas, which is a vicious medical problem that leads to incontinence and other horrific problems at a very young age. Children having babies accelerates the cycle of poverty and instability. This crisis has moral, economic and national security consequences for our country." Companion legislation passed the U.S. Senate recently led by Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Olympia Snowe (R-ME). Background on Congressman McCollum’s trip to Bangladesh: Earlier this year, Congresswoman McCollum traveled to Bangladesh to assess U.S.-funded initiatives that impact the health, education, and economic security of women and girls, especially efforts to prevent child marriage. She was joined on the trip by Ambassador Melanne Verveer, U.S. Ambassador-at-large for Global Women's Issues. Millions of girls in Bangladesh are vulnerable to child marriage. While in Bangladesh, Congresswoman McCollum met with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Nobel Peace Prize Laureate Mohamed Yunus, founder of the Grameen Bank, and visited the Asian University for Women in Chittagong to meet with young female leaders pursuing college degrees. Background on Congressman Schock’s trip to Ethiopia: In September 2010, Congressman Aaron Schock traveled with CARE on a learning tour to Ethiopia. The trip focused on the issue of maternal health, and the issue of child marriage was often raised at many of the sites visited. In some parts of the country, over half the girls are married by the age of 15 and they are expected to have children the following year. Schock met many young girls, some as young as nine, who fled marriage and were trying to survive in Addis Ababa. During the visit, Schock visited a program at a community center called Biruh Tefsu, meaning “Brighter Future” in Ahmaric in Addis Ababa. As of 2010, this program has helped more than 15,000 girls from the ages of 7 to 24 by providing health information (topics include HIV prevention, sexual exploitation and abuse). Many of these girls had fled from rural areas to the city to avoid an arranged marriage. Schock also visited the surgical ward of Hamlin Fistula Hospital. He later mentioned his visit on the House floor – see video. The hospital, which has been operating for nearly four decades, has treated over 30,000 women -- many of them girls -- who had received operations on their fistulas, a birth canal injury often caused by obstructed labor. The hospital provides free fistula repair surgery to about 2,500 women each year. ###
07.18.2012	For Immediate Release: July 18, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the defeat of the Kingston-McCollum amendment to eliminate the Department of Defense’s professional sports sponsorships. “This vote was an important test for Republicans and Democrats as to whether they have the stomach to cut wasteful Pentagon spending at a time when Washington is facing trillion dollar deficits. Unfortunately, a majority decided taxpayer-funded race cars and bass fishing were more important than deficit reduction. The good news is a broad bipartisan group of 202 conservatives, moderates, and progressives came together for the good of our children’s fiscal future. “My colleague Rep. Jack Kingston has been a terrific partner on this issue, and I think together we’ve demonstrated that first and foremost we are legislators working for the best interest of the American people.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.12.2012	For Immediate Release: July 12, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the Durham Herald-Sun – based in Durham, North Carolina – ran an editorial calling for cuts to the Department of Defense’s taxpayer funded sponsorship of NASCAR racing saying “…they just do not represent a wise use of tax resources.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) has repeatedly lead legislative efforts to end taxpayer funded sports sponsorships for motorsports, professional bass fishing, and ultimate fighting. The Pentagon is spending over $80 million in 2012 on these sponsorships. This week, the U.S. Army announced it will terminate its NASCAR sponsorship at the end of the current racing season. The Army has spent nearly $20 million in the past two years on its NASCAR sponsorship as part of its recruitment budget. The National Guard continues to sponsor NASCAR’s Dale Earnhardt, Jr.’s racing team costing taxpayers $136 million over the past five years, including $26 million in 2012. USA Today reported on May 18, 2012 that this year Mr. Earnhardt’s sponsorship has resulted in over “24,800 individuals interested in joining,” of which 20 were qualified candidates and “none joined.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.12.2012	For Immediate Release: July 12, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman McCollum Decries Farm Bill’s Harsh Cuts to Nutrition Programs 2 to 3 million low-income Americans will have food assistance eliminated Washington, DC – Yesterday, the House Committee on Agriculture passed the 2012 farm bill – the Federal Agriculture and Risk Management Act (H.R. 6083) – which proposes a $16.5 billion cut from nutrition programs for low-income seniors, families, and children. The deep cuts to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) – which helps over 46 million Americans feed their families, including 500,000 Minnesotans -- will result in 2 to 3 million low-income Americans being kicked off the food assistance program. This Republican bill will remove an additional 280,000 low-income children from the school lunch program. “This Republican farm bill will take food off the table of hungry families and seniors. It is unconscionable for this Republican-Tea Party Congress to cut the deficit by cutting food assistance for low-income Americans while they continue to fight to cut taxes for millionaires and billionaires,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Millions of Americans rely on SNAP because of the depth, severity, and pain caused by the Bush Recession. Congress can defeat hunger and work to get American back to work by investing in strengthening our economy, not targeting hungry kids, seniors, and their families.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.12.2012	For Immediate Release: July 12, 2012Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum), 202-225-6631 Washington, DC – U.S. Senators Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken and U.S. Representatives Betty McCollum and Keith Ellison today announced over $93 million for construction of the Central Corridor Light Rail. The funding comes from the Department of Transportation. “Investing in a 21st century transportation system will help attract businesses and boost Minnesota’s economy,” Klobuchar said. “This support will help ensure that our light rail system can expand its service and better serve residents and businesses.” "The Central Corridor will be an important part of the modern transportation system that will help businesses and commuters and strengthen Minnesota's economy," said Sen. Franken. "This funding will go a long way toward ensuring the project will finish on time, and will lighten the financial load on state and local governments." “The Central Corridor is an important investment in our transportation system and economic future,” said McCollum. “When it opens, it will provide a vital transportation link for tens of thousands of Minnesotans every day and will serve as a vibrant corridor for economic development.” “This project will increase transportation options in Minneapolis and provide access to good construction jobs," said Rep. Keith Ellison. "I congratulate the Metropolitan Council on this award.” The Central Corridor Line will receive $93,144,000 to help support construction of the 11-mile light rail line that will link downtown St. Paul, the University of Minnesota and downtown Minneapolis. It is scheduled to open in 2014, and is expected to carry over 40,000 commuters each day by 2030. ###
07.10.2012	For Immediate Release: July 10, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) strongly opposes the Republicans’ attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act despite the recent Supreme Court ruling. Tonight, she will deliver the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives. [as prepared] “This Republican-Tea Party led Congress is wasting America’s time to promote the only issue they care about – their own re-election. Today’s vote is not about healthcare. It is a gimmick to pander to Tea Party voters. “This bill shows the Republican vision for healthcare: deny coverage, deny care, and deny the law of the land. “If you have a child with a pre-existing condition, possibly a life-threatening illness – this Republican plan means your child’s health insurance can be terminated. If you are a senior on Medicare – this Republican bill throws you back into the donut hole. This Republican bill repeals the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, harming Native children, families, and seniors all across Indian Country. “The Affordable Care Act is the constitutional law of the land and it is a good law. “President Obama and Democrats must continue to work to implement the law and extend quality, affordable healthcare to millions of Americans.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.10.2012	For Immediate Release: July 10, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the Army announced that it would no longer sponsor the Stewart-Haas Racing, which includes racecar driver Ryan Newman. A longtime NASCAR sponsor, the Army had been with Newman at Stewart-Haas Racing when the team began three years ago. In her position on the House Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) has been urging the Department of Defense to stop spending millions of taxpayer dollars on professional sponsorships. Although the military is using this money for recruitment purposes, facts indicate that professional sports sponsorships weren’t effective. “By ending its sponsorship of NASCAR, the Army made the right move to eliminate a wasteful program and protect taxpayer dollars – which has been my goal all along,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Congress is facing a very difficult budget environment, and I want taxpayer dollars protected – even at the Pentagon. I applaud the Army’s decision to terminate its funding of NASCAR. The Army now joins the Navy and Marine Corps in terminating its NASCAR partnership.” “I will continue to work to save taxpayer dollars by ending all of the Pentagon’s multi-million dollar professional sports sponsorships of motor racing, bass fishing and ultimate fighting,” concluded Congresswoman McCollum. This year, the Army spent $16 million on professional sports sponsorships. Total spending by the Pentagon on all sports sponsorships – including motor racing, bass fishing and ultimate fighting – is over $80 million. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.09.2012	For Immediate Release: July 9, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – The middle class tax cuts for families earning less than $250,000 per year should be extended for an additional year as the economy continues to gain strength. But it is fundamentally irresponsible to continue borrowing billions from China to give additional tax cuts for upper income earners. The Bush tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans should expire at the end of this year. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.06.2012	Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum), 202-225-6631 WASHINGTON, D.C. [07/06/12] – Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and U.S. Reps. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), John Kline (R-Minn.), and Chip Cravaack (R-Minn.) announced that President Barack Obama approved federal assistance to help Minnesota communities repair public infrastructure damaged by recent flooding. Last week, Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton requested federal assistance in repairing damaged infrastructure, and on Monday, the Minnesota delegation pressed the White House to approve that request. "I am in Duluth today and can't think of a better place to be to receive the news that the disaster declaration has been issued," said Sen. Klobuchar. "It is a tribute to the people of Northeast Minnesota who have done an outstanding job in responding to these floods that this declaration got done so quickly. I will continue to work with state and local officials for additional assistance to help the region rebuild and return stronger than ever." "I've visited communities all over northeastern Minnesota and have seen firsthand the incredible damage done by these floods, and I'm pleased that FEMA was able to approve this declaration so quickly," said Sen. Franken. "This declaration will allow these communities to begin the rebuilding process and get things back to normal for everyone affected. And if Governor Dayton makes a request for individual assistance, I'll do everything I can to get that approved as rapidly as possible." "These storms caused a lot of damage across the state," said Rep. Peterson. "It's critical for all those communities impacted by storm damage to do a thorough assessment and get the information to FEMA." "I am grateful to President Obama for his efforts to help Minnesota recover from the recent severe storms and flooding," said Rep. McCollum. "Thousands of Minnesotans are in need of immediate partnership and assistance from the federal government to put their lives back together." "I'm pleased that the White House has acted to expedite our request for a disaster declaration to aid repair of critical infrastructure," said Rep. Cravaack. "I thank my colleagues, Mayor Ness, and the Governor for their coordinated efforts as we work to bring relief to the areas impacted by the floods." Last week, Governor Dayton announced that damages to public infrastructure totaled over $108 million in 13 Minnesota counties and three tribal nations. Today's federal disaster declaration means that those counties and tribal nations are eligible to apply for funds to repair and replace their public infrastructure. Those costs would be funded at a rate of 75 percent by the federal government. ###
07.02.2012	For Immediate Release: July 2, 2012Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum), 202-225-6631 Sens. Klobuchar, Franken, Reps. Peterson, McCollum, Kline, Cravaack Urge President Obama to Provide Federal Assistance for Minnesota Communities Devastated by Flooding WASHINGTON, D.C. [07/02/12] – Today, in an effort to bring badly needed relief to areas of Minnesota devastated by recent flooding, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and U.S. Reps. Collin Peterson (D-Minn.), Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), John Kline (R-Minn.), and Chip Cravaack (R-Minn.) urged President Barack Obama to quickly issue a Federal Disaster Declaration. On Friday, Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton announced that state and local governments would need assistance to repair public infrastructure, and asked the President for the help of the federal government. "As congressional representatives of communities across Minnesota, we are writing to request your assistance in helping our constituents recover from recent flooding," Minnesota's delegation wrote in a letter to the White House. "The Governor of Minnesota has determined that these incidents are beyond the capability of our State and local governments to address on their own, and has therefore requested a Federal Disaster Declaration. Given the widespread damage in these areas, we write in strong support of the Governor’s request and encourage you to issue a Disaster Declaration in a timely manner so Federal programs to assist in the response and recovery efforts may be activated." On Friday, Governor Dayton announced that damages to public infrastructure totaled over $108 million in 13 Minnesota counties and three tribal nations. If approved, a federal disaster declaration would mean repair and replacement of public infrastructure would be funded at a rate of 75 percent by the federal government. The full text of the delegation's letter to President Obama is below. July 2, 2012 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States of America 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As congressional representatives of communities across Minnesota, we are writing to request your assistance in helping our constituents recover from recent flooding. In June, severe flooding caused widespread damage across the state of Minnesota. Some areas reported a 24-hour rainfall of up to 10 inches. The record-setting rainfall overwhelmed the public infrastructure and caused extensive damage, closing many roads and washing out others. The Governor of Minnesota has determined that these incidents are beyond the capability of our State and local governments to address on their own, and has therefore requested a Federal Disaster Declaration. Given the widespread damage in these areas, we write in strong support of the Governor’s request and encourage you to issue a Disaster Declaration in a timely manner so Federal programs to assist in the response and recovery efforts may be activated. While we have all been shocked by the power of these storms, we are confident in the spirit of our constituents and their ability to recover and rebuild, and we ask you to make the federal government a full partner in their effort. Thank you for your consideration of this request and for your assistance in helping the recovery effort across Minnesota. Sincerely, Amy Klobuchar United States Senator Al Franken United States Senator Collin Peterson Member of Congress Betty McCollum Member of Congress John Kline Member of Congress Chip Cravaack Member of Congress
06.28.2012	For Immediate Release: June 28, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the Supreme Court issued its ruling on the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 11-148). In an opinion written by Chief Justice John Roberts, the Court upheld the Affordable Care Act. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) – a long-time advocate of universal health care – issued the following statement. “Two years ago, I was proud to vote in support of the Affordable Care Act. Today’s historic Supreme Court decision affirms President Obama’s leadership to extend healthcare coverage to millions of Americans. It is now time for Republicans in Congress to end their vitriolic repeal campaign and work on effectively implementing this law to the benefit of the American people.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.28.2012	For Immediate Release: June 28, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov National Rifle Association Cheerleading for Censure Highlights GOP Political Strategy of Baiting Tea Party Voters by Attacking Obama Administration STATEMENT BY CONGRESSWOMAN BETTY McCOLLUM “This Tea Party Republican resolution is a shameful and shameless political witch hunt intended to destroy an honorable man’s character. The only reason this unprecedented attack is taking place against our country’s first African American Attorney General is because the Tea Party Republican majority is pandering to birthers, NRA members, and other extremist right-wingers obsessed with destroying President Obama. Eric Holder has my full support, and I reject this transparent political abuse of power.” Washington, DC – Today, U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum (MN-04) voiced her strong opposition to a House Republican resolution to hold Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress for failing to turn over documents pertaining to sensitive and on-going law enforcement activities to the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. The committee request is for documents related to Operation Fast and Furious, conducted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF), which allowed the straw purchase of firearms in pursuit of prosecutions of gun smugglers. Two of the illegally purchased AK-47 assault weapons were found at the scene of a gun battle that resulted in the killing of U.S. Border Patrol agent Brian Terry on December 15, 2010. In his effort to cooperate with Chairman Darrel Issa (R-CA) Attorney General Holder has provided the Oversight Committee with more than 7,600 pages of documents and participated in nine congressional hearings. In 2006, under the Bush Administration, the ATF’s Arizona office used the tactic of “gun walking” to allow guns to remain on the street after a potentially illegal sale to build a bigger case rather than interdicting them immediately. President Bush’s Attorney General, Michael Mukasey, received a briefing paper on November 16, 2007 on ATF cooperation with Mexico on “controlled deliveries” of weapons smuggling. The House Oversight Committee has failed to call any Bush Administration officials to testify on this matter. Yesterday in Politico, a senior Republican House aide is quoted as saying, “The contempt of Holder is a dog whistle to the right-wing tea party community, saying that we are representing them…this is a way to say we’re going after this administration, holding them accountable.” Further proof of the blatantly political nature of the Holder contempt vote is the decision by the National Rifle Association (NRA) to “score” the vote as part of its legislative report card to their membership. The NRA has long championed allowing the proliferation of assault weapons previously banned on American streets and sold over the counter, like the AK-47s found at Agent Terry’s murder scene. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.28.2012	Only Minnesota recipient of funding for comprehensive assistance for female ex-offendersSAINT PAUL, Minnesota - Reentry Connect, a collaborative project between Twin Cities RISE! (TCR!) and RS Eden, was chosen today as one of nine grant winners nationwide for funding from the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), and the only recipient from Minnesota. The award totals $1.5 million over 30 months and is part of $12.1 million in overall DOL grants to provide critical employment and support services for previously incarcerated female adults and youth as they make the transition back into their communities. “We are honored and grateful, in partnership with RS Eden, to receive the Department of Labor grant funding,” said Art Berman, President & CEO of Twin Cities RISE!. “We will implement a new service model, integrating RS Eden’s case management expertise, our Personal Empowerment and work skills training capabilities, and the support of several other service providers, to more effectively address the special needs of female ex-offenders.” Reentry Connect is a service hub designed to provide critical self-development and workforce development assistance, specifically for female ex-offenders, as they make the transition back to their communities. Comprehensive services will include integrated case management, support services, Personal Empowerment training, work skills development and job placement. The collaboration will include nineteen partners, including the Minnesota Department of Corrections and Ramsey and Hennepin County Corrections Departments, as well as local educational, training and health providers. “RS Eden is proud to partner with Twin Cities RISE!, a quality program whose mission and values we share 100%, and other community organizations to serve this important population of female ex-offenders. We are grateful for the opportunity from the Department of Labor to help create a brighter future for women as they transition back into our community,” said Dain Cain, President of RS Eden. Members of the local congressional delegation, including Senators Klobuchar and Franken, and Representatives McCollum, Ellison and Paulsen, were instrumental in helping bring this award to the Twin Cities.“I am thrilled that Twin Cities RISE! and RS Eden have received this important grant from the U.S. Department of Labor that will make a tremendous difference in Ramsey and Hennepin Counties. These two nonprofits have a strong record of effectiveness in our community, and their hub in Saint Paul will provide the comprehensive assistance necessary for re-entry to the workforce,” said Congresswoman Betty McCollum. “The long-term work skills, training and education they will deliver are desperately needed in this challenging job market.” Twin Cities RISE! is an anti-poverty organization that trains low-income adults for long-term, living wage jobs where they earn at least $20,000 annually. To learn more, visit www.twincitiesrise.org. RS EDEN is a multi-faceted agency that facilitates positive change in the areas of chemical dependency, family services, corrections and affordable housing. To learn more, visit www.rseden.org.
06.20.2012	For Immediate Release: June 20, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) participated in the House Appropriations Subcommittee on the Interior, Environment and Related Agencies mark-up of the Fiscal Year 2013 bill. The bill appropriates $28 billion in federal funds for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Department of Interior (DOI), Bureau of Indian Affairs, the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA), and other federal agencies. The Republican bill slashed funding from last year’s allocation resulting in a 17 percent cut to the Environmental Protection Agency, a 21 percent cut to the Fish and Wildlife Service, and a devastating 80 percent cut to the Land and Water Conservation Fund. In a demonstration of bipartisan cooperation, McCollum worked with Republican committee leadership to secure a 1 percent funding increase for the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: “Slashing funding for the most basic environmental protections puts the health of the American people at risk. It is clear that this Republican funding bill is all about protecting polluters and gutting environmental regulations. The dangerous and unacceptable cuts to EPA and important agencies like Fish and Wildlife only highlight the fact that the Tea Party Republican majority are sound stewards of corporate interests, but enemies of the environment.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.14.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today U.S. Representatives John Dingell (D-MI) and Betty McCollum (D-MN), along with 61 Members of Congress, called on Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar to adopt a balanced approach to management of lands on the North Slope of Alaska: The Department of the Interior is in the process of developing a first-ever comprehensive management plan for the nearly 23 million acre National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska (NPRA), the nation’s largest public land management unit. “There is room for balance in the NPRA that includes both production and protection,” said Representative Dingell, also a member of the Migratory Bird Conservation Commission. “The areas surrounding Teshekpuk Lake are migratory bird factories that provide valuable habitats for birds that migrate across the world. Protection of these habitat areas will benefit wildlife, sportsmen, and conservationists around the world and I believe that Secretary Salazar can ensure those benefits while allowing oil and gas development where it makes the most sense.” “Alternative B reliably protects environmentally sensitive areas such as the wetlands surrounding Teshekpuk Lake, long-recognized as a globally Important Bird Area for breeding waterfowl that migrate to Minnesota and states from coast to coast,” said Representative McCollum. In 1976, Congress enacted the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production Act (NPRPA) that recognized the exceptional environmental values in the NPRA and transferred the area from the U.S. Navy to the Department of the Interior. Congress directed the Secretary of the Interior to identify and protect special areas in the NPRA. Under NPRPA the Secretary of the Interior is required to determine what areas in the NPRA to lease for oil and gas exploration while requiring “maximum protection” of areas having “significant subsistence, recreational, fish and wildlife, or historical or scenic value.” Congress has also required that there be an oil and gas leasing program in the NPRA. The Department of the Interior has been offering lease sales in the NPRA for decades. There have been 11 sales since 1982, and the Obama Administration is now holding annual lease sales, the most recent was in December, 2011. More than six million acres have been leased and dozens of exploration wells have been drilled. Congress has a long, bipartisan history of supporting a balanced approach to management in the NPRA, one that protects environmentally sensitive areas while still supporting energy production and development. Protection of Teshekpuk Lake, an area that provides globally important nesting habitat for migratory waterfowl, has had broad bipartisan support from successive Republican and Democratic Administrations. Waterfowl that breed at Teshekpuk Lake overwinter in states from coast to coast. ###
06.08.2012	For Immediate Release: June 8, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman McCollum calls Commissioner Kriesel an excellent partner and important transportation leader Washington, DC – This week, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) met with Washington County Commissioner Gary Kriesel, Washington County Engineer Wayne Sandberg, and other local officials to discuss the latest developments on transportation, including the Gateway Corridor which will connect downtown St. Paul and Washington County along the I-94 corridor. “Commissioner Gary Kriesel is an important transportation leader in the East Metro. We have been working together for several years to secure federal funding for the Gateway Corridor and other key transportation investments in Washington County. We share a commitment to increased economic development as well as ensuring commuters have good choices. Commissioner Kriesel is a champion for the Gateway Corridor and an excellent partner for me as we work together to meet the needs of the families and businesses in Washington County.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.07.2012	For Immediate Release: June 7, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov The Health Care Cost Reduction Act of 2012 (H.R.436) Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) voted in support of legislation that eliminates a 2.3 percent excise tax on companies that manufacture medical devices. This medical device tax was part of the Affordable Care Act, which Congress passed in 2010. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement. “I want the Affordable Care Act to be fully implemented for the benefit of all Americans. I also support a healthy and growing medical device industry in Minnesota and across America. I support eliminating this medical device tax, which should never have been included in the Affordable Care Act. At the same time, I strongly oppose the offset in this bill. “This Tea Party Republican controlled House has voted over and over again to eliminate health reform’s protections and benefits, denying millions of Americans access to life saving care, including medical devices. The Republican goal is to kill healthcare reform; my goal is to strengthen it. “Today, I will vote to send this bill to the Senate where I know a responsible offset can be found that will not hurt any citizen. I know my two Minnesota Senators are committed to repealing this tax and they will work to find an offset that does no harm. “Let’s eliminate this tax and strengthen health care for all Americans.” Today, Congresswoman McCollum joined Congressman Jared Polis (D-CO) to introduce a bill to eliminate the medical device tax by closing subsidies for oil and gas companies. In addition, to fully offsetting the cost of eliminating the medical device tax, this bill will reduce the deficit by $3 billion over ten years. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.29.2012	For Immediate Release: May 29, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov A Minnesotan who dedicated his life to God and the people of San Lucas Toliman, Guatemala died on May 24, 2012 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the death of Father Greg Schaffer who passed away on May 24, 2012. “Fr. Greg Schaffer lived a life of deep devotion to God which in turn gave him the strength to do great things for the Guatemalan families he served starting in 1964. Greg dedicated his life to improving the lives of the people of San Lucas Toliman, Guatemala through hard work, a profound faith, and courage in the face of extreme poverty and at times brutal violence. I visited San Lucas Toliman in 2009 and learned first-hand how Greg was truly the community’s father – beloved, respected, and the initiator of tremendous social change. Elevating human dignity was Greg’s life’s work and he did it through working with poor, indigenous farmers to help them have access to land, economic opportunity, healthcare, and education. If Greg’s life was a journey, he truly walked in the footsteps of Jesus. I feel privileged to have known him. “I wish to extend my prayers and deepest sympathies to the people of San Lucas Toliman, especially Encarnacion “Chona” Ajcot who tirelessly worked with Father Greg. Let me also extend my condolences to Father Greg’s family, including Ann Terese Wiggins, his sister, as well as the New Ulm Diocese which so generously supported Father Greg’s work at the San Lucas Toliman Mission.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.25.2012	A Memorial Statement by Congresswoman Betty McCollum St. Paul, MN – Monday, May 28 marks Memorial Day 2012 in the United States. During her time in Congress, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) – who serves on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military, Construction, and Veterans Affairs – has been an advocate for our armed forces and veterans. She issued the following statement: “This Memorial Day we remember, reflect upon, and give thanks for the sacrifices and courage of all the soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines and Coast Guardsmen, and their families who have served this country in defense of our freedom. From World War II to Korea, Vietnam to Iraq, and the on-going war in Afghanistan, our country has been defended by heroes for generations. I am particularly mindful of the 1,979 U.S. service members who have lost their lives in Afghanistan and their mourning families. “All Americans owe a debt that can never fully be repaid to these heroes. But we can and must meet our commitments to the millions of brave veterans who are home with us and deserve the veterans healthcare, education and other benefits they have earned and been promised. We must fulfill our obligation to men and women who have served, sacrificed, and continue to honor us as veterans. “In my position on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military, Construction, and Veterans Affairs, I will continue working in Congress to ensure that our armed forces, their families, and our veterans get the critical resources from the federal government. “On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind. As a nation, let it be our pledge that when they return home, we leave no veteran behind.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.18.2012	For Immediate Release: May 18, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Wasting Taxpayer Money Subsidizing NASCAR Must Stop Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) expressed her outrage and disbelief at the level of waste in the National Guard’s recruitment budget. In 2012, the National Guard is spending $26.5 million to sponsor Dale Earnhardt Jr.’s #88 car in NASCAR races for the purposes of recruitment. Over the past five years Earnhardt’s racing team has received over $136 million in taxpayer funds from the National Guard – making him the highest paid military contractor in professional sports. Total Cost of National Guard Sponsorship of Dale Earnhardt Jr.’s #88 Car Fiscal Year 2008: $18.12 million Fiscal Year 2009: $27.35 million Fiscal Year 2010: $35.27 million Fiscal Year 2011: $28.86 million Fiscal Year 2012: $26.54 million 5 Year Total: $136.14 million Today, an online USA Today story by Dustin Long cites the National Guard’s contracts manager for recruitment, Maj. Brian Creech, explaining the effectiveness of this taxpayer investment in military recruiting. “In fiscal year 2012, the National Guard has been contacted by more than 24,800 individuals interested in joining because of the race sponsorship. Of those, Creech said 20 were qualified candidates and that none joined,” according to the USA Today story. That’s right, ZERO RECRUITS JOINED. The National Guard spent $26.5 million for ZERO recruits. “The Pentagon’s NASCAR sponsorship program is an outrageous waste of taxpayer money and Defense Secretary Leon Panetta should terminate these sponsorship programs immediately. Spending $26 million on a NASCAR racing team – in the name of national security – for zero recruits tells me the Pentagon can painlessly absorb some serious budget cuts,” McCollum said. “This Pentagon failure is particularly outrageous in light of the fact that last week House Republicans voted to kick 200,000 low-income kids out of the school lunch program and eliminate funding for “Meals on Wheels” for home-bound seniors in order to add $55 billion to the defense budget.” Yesterday, an amendment to stop funding Pentagon sponsorship of NASCAR and other professional sports was offered by Rep. McCollum and Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA) to fiscal year 2013 Defense appropriations bill. The amendment passed on a voice vote and will now go to the House floor as part of the $608 billion defense spending bill. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.17.2012	For Immediate Release: May 17, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Ends sponsorships costing taxpayers $1 billion over the past decade Washington, DC – Today, the House Appropriations Committee approved an amendment offered by Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA) and Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) to the Fiscal Year 2013 Defense Appropriations bill prohibiting taxpayer funds from being “…used to sponsor professional or semi-professional motorsports, fishing, mixed martial arts, wrestling, or other sporting events or competitors.” The amendment passed the committee on a voice vote and will be included as the nearly $608 billion defense funding bill moves to the floor of the U.S. House for consideration. The Department of Defense is spending more than $80 million this year to sponsor NASCAR racing teams, Indy racing, professional bass fishing, pro-wrestling, and ultimate fighting. In 2011 and 2012, the National Guard alone has spent $121 million on professional sponsorships, including $20 million for professional fishing and $90 million for NASCAR, Indy car, and motorcycle racing. Over the past five years the National Guard’s sponsorship of NASCAR’s Dale Earnhardt, Jr. and his #88 team has cost taxpayers over $136 million. This taxpayer spending will all come to an end if the “Kingston-McCollum” amendment becomes law. “At a time when Congress is increasing defense spending by cutting ‘Meals on Wheels’ for vulnerable seniors and nutrition programs for hungry children, it’s time to eliminate wasteful Pentagon spending on NASCAR, fishing and ultimate fighting sponsorships that have nothing to do with our national security,” McCollum said. “If the private sector wants to demonstrate their patriotism by sponsoring military racing teams, I say fantastic! But for taxpayers to pay for racing and bass fishing teams is a ridiculous waste of money,” McCollum concluded. Republican Congressman Jack Kingston, representing Georgia’s 1st Congressional District said, “We may disagree on some things but on this we should be able to come together. The government borrows forty cents for every dollar it spends and this is where we’re spending it? In the face of deep cuts and troop force reductions, the military should not be spending nearly $100 million sponsoring professional sports. After Congresswoman McCollum brought this issue up last year, the Pentagon had a year to justify this spending but they have not. They have had the chance to prove me wrong but I just don’t see how seeing a logo on their favorite racecar or on a fisherman’s visor is going to encourage someone to join the military.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.17.2012	BrightFarms Builds Greenhouse with J&J Distributing The companies’ partnership will provide Saint Paul with year-round local produce and green-collar jobs NEW YORK, NY and SAINT PAUL, MN, May 17, 2012—It was announced today that BrightFarms, Inc. is building a greenhouse in partnership with J&J Distributing in Saint Paul, MN. BrightFarms finances, builds, and operates greenhouses, partnering with supermarkets and distribution centers to sell locally grown, sustainable produce. J&J Distributing supplies wholesale fruits and vegetables to retailers throughout the Twin Cities. BrightFarms will build a 38,000 square foot greenhouse on site at J&J, which will package and distribute a portion of the produce. The greenhouse will grow over 350,000 pounds of local lettuces, tomatoes, and herbs per year. BrightFarms will create up to 6 full-time green-collar jobs and as many as 50 part-time jobs to construct the greenhouse. J&J has received $500,000 from the Saint Paul Community Development Block Grant Recovery Act to build the greenhouse. The company also received city funds in the form of the State of Minnesota Jobs Bill Tax Increment Financing to expand its facility and make energy efficiency upgrades. The funds have enabled J&J to create 60 permanent jobs and 130 construction jobs. Mayor Christopher B. Coleman says, “Local businesses are the backbone of our economy. Local food and green technology are important for personal and environmental health and are essential pieces of a healthy business climate. This innovative partnership creates more green-collar jobs in Saint Paul and stimulates the local economy. I'm looking forward to watching its success.” “J&J Distributing is a top-flight Minnesota business and I'm very pleased that it is partnering with BrightFarms on this expansion that will create good jobs in our state," says Senator Al Franken. “I'm also pleased that federal recovery funds are continuing to help expand economic development in Minnesota.” “This initiative will help boost local businesses and provide fresh, local produce to Minnesota communities,” Senator Amy Klobuchar says. “Green technology improves our health, protects our environment, and creates jobs,” states Congresswoman Betty McCollum. “BrightFarms’ new hydroponic greenhouse is a great example of the benefits green companies can bring to our community. I’m proud to welcome this innovative company to Saint Paul.” “Partnering with BrightFarms supports our commitment to source the freshest and most flavorful produce while creating jobs and promoting sustainability,” says Jim Hannigan, President and CEO of J&J. “I am grateful for the support J&J has received from the City of Saint Paul, which has helped make the partnership possible.” “We’re thrilled to partner with J&J to grow year-round local produce for the Saint Paul community,” states Paul Lightfoot, BrightFarms CEO. “Jim Hannigan and Mayor Coleman understand that local produce not only tastes better, it strengthens local economies.” “BrightFarms’ arrival in Saint Paul means that we can buy fresh, flavorful, local produce year round,” says celebrity chef and Twin Cities resident Andrew Zimmern. “It speaks volumes about Mayor Coleman’s leadership on the core issues of our time, including entrepreneurship, education, food access, and economic and cultural sustainability. BrightFarms is just the beginning of the need to decentralize our food systems and to think about sustainability in a comprehensive way.” A press conference and groundbreaking for the greenhouse will take place on June 4, 2012 from 10:00am to 10:30am at J&J Distributing. Mayor Coleman, Congresswoman McCollum, Jim Hannigan, and Paul Lightfoot will speak at the event. About BrightFarms BrightFarms grows local produce, nationwide. By financing, building, and operating greenhouse farms at or near grocery retailers, BrightFarms eliminates time, distance, and costs from the produce supply chain. BrightFarms local produce is fresher, more flavorful, and better for the environment, enabling grocers to change their produce supply chain in a way that improves the planet and their profits. About J&J In 1978, James and Deborah Hannigan launched J&J with 300 square feet, 4employees, and a passion for quality fruits and vegetables. Today, with an innovative 100,000 square-foot warehouse in the heart of the beautiful city of Saint Paul, Minnesota, J&J is manned by 200 experienced and dedicated people who are ready to serve its clients. J&J has a full range of conventional, organic, and value-added fresh and dried products to take care of clients’ every need. ###
05.09.2012	For Immediate Release: May 9, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Earlier today, President Obama announced that he supports same-sex marriage. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in support of the President’s change on the issue. “All Americans deserve the freedom to marry who they love and today is a watershed moment in the struggle for marriage equality. I applaud President Obama’s courage in declaring that all committed couples, all American families deserve to be treated equally under the law. The President’s words are in stunning contrast to the GOP politicians and extremists who seek to enshrine discrimination and intolerance into our constitution.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.08.2012	Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-DFL) joined her Democratic and Republican colleagues on the Military Construction – Veterans Affairs Appropriations Subcommittee in unanimously supporting the $71.7 billion fiscal year 2013 spending bill. The bill now moves to the full House Appropriations Committee for further consideration. The annual spending bill included $10.6 billion for military construction, including $1.7 billion for military family housing, which reflects President Obama’s budget request. Also included was $547 million for upgrades and safety improvements at Defense education facilities both in the United States and overseas. The Department of Veterans Affairs will receive $60.7 billion for fiscal year 2013, an increase of $2.3 billion over 2012. The VA will receive $41.4 billion to provide medical services to more than six million patients. Included in these funds are $6.2 billion dedicated to mental health care services. Funds for suicide prevention, traumatic brain injury treatment, and homeless veterans’ services, including housing and job training, are also included in the bill. The bill contains $54.5 billion in advance fiscal year 2014 funding for the VA medical services, which will ensure that our veterans have full and continued access to their health care needs. “America has a debt to pay for the service and sacrifices our veterans have made for all of us. The funding provided in this bill is absolutely essential to provide the services and support to meet the needs of Iraq and Afghan war veterans, as well as those who served in Vietnam, Korea, and World War II,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “I commend Subcommittee Chairman Culberson and Ranking Member Bishop for their leadership in advancing this important legislation. This bill is an important example of a bipartisan success in which the needs of our veterans come first.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.24.2012	Washington, DC – Today, the offices of Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) and Congressman Erik Paulsen (MN-03) are at Cub Foods in Bloomington, MN to highlight the work of local nonprofit Store-to-Door and the problem of hunger among Minnesota seniors. Hunger-Free Minnesota released a report last fall showing a rising need for senior food support. According to the new data, 88,000 seniors in Minnesota live below the poverty line but less than half are accessing the food support system. Data shows that 90 percent of seniors who do receive food support live alone, many with a disability. The Roseville-based nonprofit Store to Door is working to address this problem by purchasing and delivering groceries and medication to homebound seniors across the Twin Cities. McCollum and Paulsen introduced the Enhancing Nutrition Services to the Elderly and Disabled Act (H.R. 4333) to make it easier for Minnesota seniors receiving federal assistance through the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) to use their benefits to purchase groceries directly from Store to Door. "Hunger among Minnesota seniors is a quiet crisis that needs more attention. Our bipartisan legislation will make it easier for Minnesota seniors to get the food they need to continue living healthy, independent lives," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This bill also helps Store to Door fulfill its mission to serve the seniors in our state who are most vulnerable to hunger." Store to Door is the only Minnesota non-profit to focus entirely on grocery delivery. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.12.2012	For Immediate Release: April 12, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the Main Street Fairness Coalition held a press conference on St. Paul's Grand Avenue to announce a new effort to pass H.F. 1849, a bill introduced in the Minnesota legislature to give the state authority to collect sales taxes from out-of-state online retailers. Minnesota small business owners were joined by Minnesota Department of Revenue Commissioner Myron Frans and a bipartisan group of state legislators to argue this legislation is urgently needed to protect Minnesota jobs and level the playing field for "bricks and mortar" businesses competing against national online retailers. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) is an original co-sponsor of legislation in Congress to restore tax equity for retailers (the Marketplace Equity Act, H.R. 3179) and strongly supports the legislative effort at the state level. McCollum is the only member of Minnesota's congressional delegation to co-sponsor the Marketplace Equity Act. "I strongly support this bipartisan legislative effort in Minnesota to close the online tax loophole that places retailers in our state at an unfair disadvantage. Minnesota's main street businesses are an essential part of our communities, and they deserve a tax code that allows for fair competition. Legislative action in Minnesota will increase the pressure for a federal solution that ensures a level-playing field for all retailers in the country. I am working in Congress to pass the Marketplace Equity Act to end the unfair tax advantage for online-only retailers that hurts Minnesota's business owners and employees." The bipartisan Marketplace Equity Act will create a level playing field between local and online-only retailers. Currently, online-only retailers are not required to collect state sales tax if they do not have a physical presence in the state. H.R. 3179 grants states the authority to collect and remit sales taxes on online purchases. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.12.2012	Contact: Clarise Tushie-Lessard 651.266.8571 (o) 952-217-6036 (c) Saint Paul is one of the first cities in the nation to offer this type of station, solidifying its status as a leader in sustainable energy SAINT PAUL –Today, Mayor Chris Coleman, Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Xcel Energy, Commissioner Paul Aasen and other local officials unveiled two new solar-powered electric car charging stations in Saint Paul’s Como Regional Park. Located at Como Lake and McMurray Fields, they are the first of their kind in Minnesota. Powered by the sun, they generate no air pollution. These particular charging stations have the capacity to charge two vehicles at a time. “Having these charging stations located in a regional destination like Como Park is a good fit for the demand we've seen from our environmentally-conscious users,” Mayor Chris Coleman said. “The electric car industry is growing, and Saint Paul is ready. We are paving the way for a sustainable future, and will continue to lay the infrastructure for electric vehicles across the metro.” City officials also introduced three new electric vehicles to its fleet at the event; two Chevy Volts and a Ford Transit Connect. Saint Paul has made great strides in utilizing sustainable energy. With four electric vehicles in its fleet, electric charging stations in many downtown ramps, solar panels on the roofs of government buildings and more, the city has become a national leader in clean energy. “The leadership of Saint Paul and our clean energy partners here today demonstrates that we understand that energy efficiency isn't just a competitive advantage, it's a competitive necessity in our global economy. I believe the federal government can and should partner with cities, states and organizations to deliver clean energy initiatives like this,” Congresswoman Betty McCollum said. “Xcel Energy is pleased to partner with the City of Saint Paul to give customers another clean energy choice,” said Judy Poferl, president and CEO of Northern States Power Co.-Minnesota, an Xcel Energy company. “Today, customers can not only plug in their EVs, but they can plug into a clean solar resource. That’s an exciting first and an exceptional fit with this premiere park environment.” “We've worked hard to be on the forefront of a number of sustainable innovations throughout our parks and recreation system, and these stations will only help further those efforts,” Saint Paul Parks and Recreation Director Mike Hahm said. The charging stations, open today, will charge $1 per hour. The solar charging stations, paid for in part from a $2.8 million federal stimulus grant through the U.S. Department of Energy, cost $35,000 per unit and are eligible for total rebate of $8,910 from Xcel Energy Solar*Rewards program. The electric vehicles were paid for through stimulus dollars, Xcel Energy and the City of Saint Paul. Overall, stimulus dollars paid for about 60 percent and Xcel Energy and the City of Saint Paul each paid about 20 percent of the total cost for solar installations, charging stations and four electric vehicles. The city is working with Drive Electric Minnesota, a partnership of local and state government, Xcel Energy, businesses and nonprofit entities working in collaboration to bring electric vehicles and plug-in charging infrastructure to Minnesota. For more information on electric vehicles and the charging stations, visit www.stpaul.gov/evchargingstations. ###
04.09.2012	More than half of the women state legislators in Minnesota request a reduction in military spending in a letter presented to Congresswoman McCollum For Immediate Release: Contact: Rachel Wisch, Public Information Officer Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND) Phone: (781) 643-6740 Email: rwisch@wand.org Contact: Maria Reppas, Communications Director Office of Congresswoman Betty McCollum Phone: (202) 225-6631 Email: maria.reppas@mail.house.gov ST. PAUL, Minn. – Today at her district office, Congresswoman McCollum received a letter from more than half of the women state legislators of Minnesota that calls for a reduction in military spending. The letter was presented by Minnesota state Senators Sandy Pappas and Mary Jo McGuire and state Representative Phyllis Kahn. “It is not acceptable for House Republicans to pass a “millionaires manifesto” that showers millionaires and billionaires with tax breaks and other benefits, and protect billions in oil company subsidies and wasteful Pentagon spending, while abandoning the middle class and local communities,” said Congresswoman McCollum. “Washington should be a partner for opportunity an economic growth for our entire country by investing in education, basic research, modern infrastructure and clean energy.” The letter points out that military spending will comprise about 56 percent of the discretionary budget in the coming year, and that deeper cuts to other areas of the discretionary budget will do little to alleviate the federal deficit and cause catastrophic cuts to the social safety net. It also calls attention to the Pentagon’s lack of budgetary discipline and inability to conduct an audit. The letter was an initiative of the Women Legislator’s Lobby (WiLL), a national network of women state legislators who work together to influence federal policy and budget priorities, for which State Senator Sandy Pappas serves as vice president. “Congresswoman McCollum has been a great ally in shining a light on wasteful, unnecessary Pentagon spending, and we want her to keep up that fight this year,” said Pappas. “We should spend what we need to keep our nation safe and secure, and we must support our troops. But we cannot afford to keep wasting money on things like an outdated excessive nuclear arsenal and weapons systems the Pentagon does not want or need. Scarce dollars can be better spent investing in programs that keep us economically secure; things like education, infrastructure, and health care.” WiLL is a program of Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND), a national non-profit organization dedicated to empowering women to act politically to reduce violence and militarism, and redirect excessive military resources toward unmet human and environmental needs. In delivering this letter, WAND hopes to encourage Congresswoman McCollum’s work to reduce extreme military spending through her efforts on the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, which has jurisdiction over the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and other relevant agencies. About Women’s Action for New Directions (WAND) WAND is a national non-profit organization dedicated to empowering women to act politically to reduce violence and militarism, and redirect excessive military resources toward unmet human and environmental needs. Founded in 1982, WAND is a recognized United Nations NGO. Over the years, WAND developed a variety of successful programs, and currently consists of a 501-C3 WAND Education Fund, a 501-C4 WAND Inc. Action Center for members and chapters, WAND Political Action Committee, and the Women Legislator's Lobby (WiLL) program. For more information, please visit www.wand.org. ###
03.29.2012	CONTACT: Rep. Betty McCollum - Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 or Maria.Reppas@mail.house.gov Bill makes it easier for homebound seniors to purchase food and medicines Washington, D.C. – Representative Erik Paulsen (MN-03) and Representative Betty McCollum (MN-04) today introduced legislation aimed at ensuring Minnesota's homebound seniors don't go hungry. Current law prevents seniors on Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) from using their benefits to pay for food delivered to them by nonprofit organizations. This makes it extremely difficult for seniors who are unable to leave their homes to acquire food. The Enhancing Nutrition Services to the Elderly and Disabled Act will update the law so that these seniors can use SNAP benefits to pay for food provided to them by delivery services. "In these tough economic times, it increasingly difficult for organizations in Minnesota that work to feed homebound seniors to provide this important service," said Rep. Paulsen. "This bill will help struggling homebound seniors in our state and around the country gain access to the vital food services they need. I look forward to working in a bipartisan manner to see its passage." "Store to Door is one of Minnesota's great nonprofits, and I'm proud to represent them in Congress," said Rep. McCollum. "I am pleased to work with Representative Paulsen on this legislation to help Store to Door keep seniors in their homes by delivering groceries and critical medications." Co-Chairs of the House Hunger Caucus, Jo Ann Emerson (MO-08) and James McGovern (MA-03) are also original sponsors of the legislation.
03.28.2012	House GOP Budget Proposals Would Kill Federal Support for ALL Future Twin Cities Transit Projects Congressional Quarterly's House Action Report yesterday described the House GOP budget resolution for Fiscal Year 2013 (H. Con. Res. 112) as recommending "the termination of funding for high-speed rail projects, reductions in Amtrak funding and the elimination of the New Starts and Small Starts programs in the Federal Transit Administration." CQ further explains that the Republican House Majority "argues that mass transit projects are local, not national, and should therefore be funded at the local level." For Minnesota, Republicans in Congress are proposing to shift the entire burden of financing mass transit construction onto the state and localities. There is no guarantee – or even commitment – in the Republican budget to provide promised federal transit funds to allow completion of the construction of the Central Corridor LRT. The GOP budget would shift 100% of transit funding onto the state and local governments for the following projects: • Southwest Corridor • Gateway Corridor • Bottineau Corridor • Robert Street Corridor • Riverview Corridor • Rush Line Corridor House GOP Budget Drastically Cuts Minnesota Highway and Bridge Funding Overall, the Republican FY13 budget resolution cuts federal transportation programs, including highway and bridge funding, by 36-percent for 2013. Transportation Weekly reported that the transportation funding level in the House Republican budget for next year is $49.7 billion while commitments made in prior years totals $56.3 billion – meaning this budget is $6.6 billion short of meeting contractual obligations for projects that are already under construction or planned for construction next summer. Between 2014 and 2022, the Republican budget would cut federal transportation funding nearly 25-percent. These damaging cuts will make our country's transportation system less efficient, reduce economic growth and make America, including the Twin Cities, less competitive in the global economy. A vote for the Republican budget is a vote to provide Minnesotan's with fewer transportation choices at a time of rising gas prices, increase congestion on Minnesota roads, provide less funding to replace our 1,149 structurally deficient bridges, and destroy thousands of construction jobs for Minnesota workers. This GOP budget (H. Con. Res. 112) needs to be defeated in Congress and rejected by the American people. The alternative, the Democratic budget for FY13 includes $50 billion to immediately put thousands of Americans to work rebuilding infrastructure and digging out of our country's backlog of deferred highway and bridge maintenance. Democrats also include President Obama's six-year surface transportation proposal to modernize America's transportation system and provide certainty to states and local governments. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.23.2012	For Immediate Release: March 23, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov President Obama hits a home run with this nomination Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), co-chair of the Caucus for Congressional – World Bank Dialogue and the founder of the Congressional Global Health Caucus, issued the following statement regarding President Obama's nomination of Dr. Jim Yong Kim to be the next President of the World Bank. "I really think President Obama hit a home run with his nomination of Dr. Jim Kim to lead the World Bank in its efforts to combat poverty and advance global development. Dr. Kim's significant contribution to global health, his commitment to partnerships on the ground in developing countries, and his proven management skills will make him an extraordinary leader for this vital multilateral institution. This nomination should give Congress real confidence, as a major investor in the World Bank, that an American with a proven track record of success will be advancing a shared vision of global development. Having worked with Dr. Kim in the past, I am grateful for his willingness to take on this job, and I wish him much success." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.21.2012	Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) Recognized as "Champion of the Forests" World Forestry Day Commemorates the Importance and Benefits of Forests WASHINGTON (March 22, 2012) – Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) Executive Vice President of Public Affairs John F. Calvelli advocated for greater protection of the world's forests by funding the U.S. Forest Service Office of International Programs (FSIP) during testimony before the House Interior Appropriations Subcommittee. In a celebration of World Forestry Day, WCS also recognized Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) as a "Champion of the Forests." In addition to FSIP, the testimony also pushed for full funding of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's Multinational Species Conservation Funds (MSCF), which are key bipartisan programs that are effective, targeted investments in global priority species such as tigers, elephants, rhinoceros, great apes and sea turtles. Calvelli spoke of how U.S. investment in global conservation, through these programs specifically, is helping improve local governance around the world and conserve our planet's natural wealth. The illegal trade in wildlife and timber products is booming across Africa and Asia. Criminalized syndicates – often also trading in narcotics and weapons –are systematically capturing and killing wildlife to sell on the black market. Illegal timber trade is also directly impacting American economic interests. For example, industry reports estimate that U.S. roundwood, sawnwood and panel exports could increase by approximately $460 million each year if illegal logging was eliminated. Calvelli said, "Essential programs like the U.S. Forest Service International Programs are instrumental in conserving our planet's forests and protecting American forestry trade and timber interests. WCS has a long history of working to preserve our world's forests for the long-term conservation of species and human livelihoods, and we are lucky to have bipartisan support for this effort. We urge the full funding of these vital investments." World Forestry Day has been celebrated on March 21st for 30 years to remind communities of the importance of forests and the many benefits which we gain from them, including water quality maintenance, air pollution mitigation, erosion protection, and economic opportunities. This year, WCS recognized Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN) as a "Champion of the Forests" for her work as a powerful advocate both for smart forest conservation and management and for the U.S. timber industry. Rep. McCollum said, "Whether it's a forest in Minnesota, Manitoba, or Madagascar, these irreplaceable economic, ecological and environmental treasures must be protected and sustainably managed for future generations. The Forest Service International Programs does incredible work around the world that benefits not only some of the world's most beloved animal species, but the economic interests of American logging, hunting and fishing industries. I am very proud to receive this award on behalf of the world's forests." Rep. McCollum and Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID) have been key supporters of the U.S. Forest Service International Programs in Congress. WCS is recommending maintaining FY12 enacted levels for FSIP and supports the Administration's FY13 request for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's MSCF program. WCS steers coalitions supporting both of these programs, representing dozens of business and industry groups, academic institutions, outdoor recreation and conservation organizations, zoos and aquariums, and others who see the value in safeguarding international conservation investments. The Wildlife Conservation Society saves wildlife and wild places worldwide. We do so through science, global conservation, education and the management of the world's largest system of urban wildlife parks, led by the Flagship Bronx Zoo. Together these activities change attitudes toward nature and help people imagine wildlife and humans living in harmony. WCS is committed to this mission because it is essential to the integrity of life on Earth.
03.15.2012	For Immediate Release: March 15, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) – co-chair of the bipartisan Caucus for Congressional-World Bank Dialogue – urged President Obama to take into account two important considerations when he selects, later this month, a nominee to lead the World Bank. Congresswoman McCollum believes the nominee must be an American and have the "focus, understanding, and a commitment to advancing the interests and well-being of women and girls" in the developing world. In her March 15th letter, she commended the current leadership of World Bank President Robert Zoellick and advocated for an American nominee who would build "upon the innovations and much needed openness" established by Zoellick. Throughout the 67-year history of the World Bank, the U.S. president has nominated the World Bank president, all of whom have been American citizens. "I firmly believe this tradition should continue," Congresswoman McCollum wrote. "The commitment of Congress and the American people to the Bank's mission is significantly enhanced by the presence of American leadership of the institution." Congresswoman McCollum also called upon President Obama to select a nominee who would make the economic status of women and girls a priority at the World Bank. "Your nominee must have the skills, understanding, and commitment to engage women who are heads of state, parliamentarians, business leaders, and local community members," she wrote. "I can assure you, American women and women around the world will be evaluating your nominee with great interest." Congresswoman McCollum is the former board chair (2007-2008) of the Parliamentary Network on the World Bank (PNoWB), an international organization of parliamentarians dedicated to increased accountability and transparency in International Financial Institutions and multilateral development financing. In Congress, she has been a champion for international development, global health, and creating opportunity for women and girls. Current World Bank President Bob Zoellick announced that he would step down when his term is over in June 2012. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.08.2012	For Immediate Release: March 8, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – During remarks delivered at the National Congress of American Indian's (NCAI) Tribal Nations Legislative Summit yesterday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-St. Paul) thanks tribal leaders from across the U.S. for their efforts to lobby on behalf of tribal communities and families. In attendance in his role as NCAI Midwest Vice-President Alternate was the Hon. Eugene "Ribs" Whitebird, District III Representative on the Leech Lake Reservation Business Committee. During her remarks to the national audience of tribal leaders, Rep. McCollum called Representative Whitebird a "distinguished leader, a dear friend, and a trusted mentor whose opinion I take to heart." Congresswoman McCollum, a member of the Interior and Environment Appropriations Subcommittee which funds the Bureau of Indian Affairs, later thanked Representative Whitebird for his willingness to travel to Washington, DC to testify before the Interior Subcommittee later this month on March 27th and 28th when two days of public testimony from tribal leaders will take place. "Ribs has testified in Congress before and he is a powerful voice for the Leech Lake Band of Ojibwe and all of Indian Country. He is always fighting for better education, more jobs and increased investment in the Leech Lake community," McCollum said. In her remarks to the NCAI conference McCollum stated, "Congress must not cut the deficit by cutting programs vital to the future of Indian children or elders or families. This Congress needs to fully fund the programs that meet your needs – the needs of Indian Country for today and for tomorrow." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.06.2012	For Immediate Release: March 6, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the passing of Congressman Donald Payne (D-NJ). "Today, the U.S. House and the American people lost a statesman and a dedicated leader committed to human rights, quality education, and social justice – at home and around the world. It was my honor to serve with Rep. Payne on the Africa Subcommittee, as well as the Education and Workforce Committee. I will always remember Donald as a friend, a gentleman, and a kind soul who spoke with authority and legislated on behalf of those who were too often voiceless. My deepest condolences go out to Donald's family, his staff, and his New Jersey constituents." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.01.2012	For Immediate Release: March 1, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the St. Croix River Crossing Project Authorization Act (S. 1134) by a vote of 339 to 80. Originally spearheaded by Congresswoman Bachmann (MN-06), S. 1134 authorizes construction of a $700 million mega-bridge over the protected St. Croix River between Minnesota and Wisconsin, benefiting only 18,000 cars per day. "Every policy debate has two sides and I worked hard to reflect the voices of Minnesotans in the 4th District, as well as those Stillwater and Oak Park Heights residents who are deeply concerned about this mega-bridge project. "Congress' passage of this $700 million bridge bill doesn't diminish its excessive cost, size, negative effect on Highway 36 traffic congestion, or its adverse impact on the St. Croix River. "Supporters of this legislation, including Senators Klobuchar and Franken, and Gov. Dayton, assume responsibility for protecting communities along Highway 36 from crippling traffic congestion and the families and businesses of Oak Park Heights from property tax increases – the direct consequences of the project they so strongly championed. "I want to thank my friend and Minnesota colleague, Rep. Keith Ellison (MN-05) for his eloquence on the floor of the House in opposition to S. 1134. I share Congressman Ellison's concern that replacing one bridge at a cost of $700 million to the exclusion of more than 1,100 other structurally deficient bridges in Minnesota places too many communities and motorists at risk. I am committed to working with Rep. Ellison, Gov. Dayton and all Minnesota members of Congress and state legislators to repair or replace these substandard bridges." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.29.2012	For Immediate Release: February 29, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives to voice her opposition to The St. Croix River Crossing Project Authorization Act (S. 1134). This legislation authorizes construction of a $700 million mega-bridge over the protected St. Croix River between Minnesota and Wisconsin, benefiting only 18,000 cars per day. The bridge would be built only six miles from Interstate 94 crossing over the same river. The House will vote on S. 1134 tomorrow. Congresswoman McCollum delivered the following remarks: The bill before the House today, S. 1134, is a controversial bill that represents wasteful government spending, bad transportation policy, and bad environmental policy. A new bridge across the protected St. Croix River between my state of Minnesota and Wisconsin needs to be built. The aging Stillwater Lift Bridge needs to be replaced – everyone agrees on that – but I support a more affordable and more appropriately scaled replacement bridge. This bill is controversial because it does much more than authorize a replacement bridge. This bill mandates the construction of an exotic and massive "extradosed" style bridge some 219 feet above the St. Croix River at a cost of $700 million for only 18,000 cars per day. This $700 million "extradosed" mega-bridge would connect Oak Park Heights, Minnesota – population 4,700 – to Houlton, Wisconsin – population 386. I quote from the St. Paul Pioneer Press (Jan. 25, 2012) that Houlton, Wisconsin, "...is not big enough for a stop sign on its main street." Houlton, Wisconsin may not have a stop sign, but today Congress could give it a $700 million bridge. This bill is controversial because, if you look at page 2, line 10 of the bill, you will see that the bill dictates the location of this $700 million mega-bridge as "...approximately 6 miles north of the Interstate-94 crossing." In other words, this bill mandates a 65 miles-per-hour interstate freeway bridge, connecting a town of 386 people and builds it only six miles from an existing Interstate crossing of the same river. Is this what the Tea Party would call an efficient and effective use of tax dollars? The fiscal watchdog group Taxpayers for Common Sense calls the bill, "a massive misuse of taxpayer money." In a letter to Congress opposing this bill, Taxpayers for Common Sense said, "In an era of trillion dollar deficits and a $15 trillion national debt, it is simply unacceptable to spend $700 million on a bridge to carry so few vehicles when an interstate bridge exists nearby." This bill is controversial because it is opposed by the Interior Department, which testified before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee on July 28, 2011, opposing S. 1134. The Deputy Director of the National Parks Service stated, "The Department cannot support this legislation as the National Park Service determined that the St. Croix River Project would have a direct and adverse impact to the river and these impacts cannot be mitigated." To be clear, I asked Interior Secretary Salazar two weeks ago during an Interior Appropriations Subcommittee hearing a direct question. I asked, "Does the Interior Department still oppose S 1134? Interior Secretary Salazar responded, "Our position remains unchanged. A wild and scenic river is a wild and scenic river. The position of the Parks Service as articulated a year ago is the position of the Department. We have, as you know Congresswoman McCollum, met with delegations from the two states and Secretary LaHood and I have offered to work with a work group to see whether an alternative can be found." Unfortunately, despite the opposition from the Interior Department and the offer to work for a compromise solution, Congress will now be voting on a $700 million mega-bridge. This bill is controversial because it will directly result in a property tax increase for the residents of Oak Park Heights, Minnesota, a community in which Minnesota's new redistricting map places in my new congressional district. According to a unanimously passed resolution by the Oak Park Heights City Council, the passage of S. 1134 by Congress, "...will require an estimated $443 annual property tax increase for the next 10 years to most City homeowners and businesses." A vote for S. 1134 will be a tax increase on Minnesotans. This bill is controversial because it puts Congress in the position of prioritizing spending $700 million of taxpayer money to replace one bridge while Minnesota has more than 1,100 additional "structurally deficient" bridges –far less costly – that are all in desperate need of repair or replacement. In fact, dozens of Minnesota state legislators wrote our delegations saying, "We are united in our concerns that the current design of the bridge is far too expensive, particularly in light of much more cost effective alternatives." Those state legislators, many from my congressional district, urged defeat of this legislation. Former Vice-President and U.S. Senator Walter Mondale – an original sponsor of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act – opposes this bill, saying passage "would be a profound mistake" and he urges a vote against this bill. This bill was even controversial in the Senate. Senator Jeff Bingaman, chairman of the Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, Senator Mark Udall of Colorado, and Senator Maria Cantwell of Washington opposed S. 1134 saying, "In our opinion, waiving the protections of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act for the Lower St. Croix River is bad policy and sets a dangerous precedent." Here in the House, this bill is also controversial. It is controversial because it this bill is an earmark – pure and simple. This bill designates a specific project, in a specific location, and it mandates the construction of a $700 million extradosed bridge design. It does it all through an exemption to federal law. Of course, earmarks are banned in the House except when a bill come to the floor on suspension of the rules and points order are waived – just like this one! This mega-bridge was highlighted in a New York Times editorial. The editorial highlights my Minnesota colleague and mega-bridge champion, Rep. Bachmann, who has called for a "redefinition" of what an earmark is to accommodate "a bridge over a vital waterway." Today, Congresswoman Bachmann has been successful in bringing her earmark to the floor. Now, it is not just me, my dear friend from Minneapolis, Mr. Ellison, other House colleagues, and the U.S. Interior Department are opposing this $700 million boondoggle bridge. This bill is also opposed by: • Taxpayers for Common Sense • The Sierra Club • National Parks Conservation Association • American Rivers • League of Conservation Voters • Former Vice President Walter Mondale • And, a whole lot of Minnesotans who care deeply about responsible fiscal policy, wise transportation investments, and responsible environmental conservation. Tomorrow we will vote on this bill. Will this House give a rubber stamp to a $700 million mega-bridge? Or, will this Congress reject this bad bill and direct Minnesota and Wisconsin to come up with a smarter plan that would save taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars? Every Minnesota and Wisconsin member of this House supports a replacement bridge – none more than I. But, I ask my colleagues to reject this fiscally irresponsible bill. Not one dollar of Minnesota transportation funds will be lost. I have a Minnesota Department of Transportation document in my hand that outlines how hundreds of millions of dollars could be reprogrammed across our state, creating thousands of jobs, and rebuilding roads in need of repair. S. 1134 is a bad bill, and it should be defeated by Democrats and Republicans alike. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.28.2012	For Immediate Release: February 28, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding The St. Croix River Crossing Project Authorization Act (S. 1134), which is expected to be debated on the U.S. House floor tomorrow. This bill authorizes construction of a $700 million mega-bridge over the protected St. Croix River between Minnesota and Wisconsin, which benefits only 18,000 cars per day. "I know Rep. Bachmann is working to deliver her $700 million mega-bridge for Wisconsin commuters, which raises taxes on Oak Park Heights families and causes traffic misery for residents along Highway 36. This is a bad bill for the majority of my constituents." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.27.2012	Representative Betty McCollum (D-Minnesota) received the 2012 Groundwater Protector Award from the National Ground Water Association today. The Groundwater Protector Award honors people in government, industry, and the private sector for their public service efforts in conjunction with groundwater conservation, protection, and use. McCollum is being recognized for her leadership in championing a National Ground Water Monitoring Network to provide information on the source of water supply for nearly 130 million Americans and approximately 40 percent of the nation's irrigation water. "Every day, millions of Americans rely on groundwater sources for their drinking water, including nearly 80 percent of Minnesotans. The National Groundwater Monitoring Network is a critical resource," said McCollum. "Looking ahead, Congress must continue to do everything possible to ensure our nation's drinking water remains a safe and plentiful resource. I'm honored to receive this award. I look forward to continuing our work on protecting and preserving our national resources." NGWA Executive Director Kevin McCray, CAE, lauded McCollum as a visionary regarding groundwater and its importance to America. "Representative McCollum's commitment to protecting groundwater is important and farsighted. She understands how vital groundwater is to our country's future, from drinking water supplies and cropland irrigation to energy production and the health of our ecosystems," said McCray. "It is no exaggeration to say that groundwater is part of the lifeblood of our country. Representative McCollum's support of the National Ground Water Monitoring Network is most worthy of our 2012 Groundwater Protector Award." About 44 percent of Americans regularly depend on groundwater for their drinking water supply. Minnesotans use almost 863 million gallons of groundwater daily — 372 million gallons of which is used for public water supplies, 78 million from privately owned household wells, and 216 million for farm irrigation. ___________________________ NGWA, a nonprofit organization composed of U.S. and international groundwater professionals — contractors, equipment manufacturers, suppliers, scientists, and engineers — is dedicated to advancing groundwater knowledge. NGWA's vision is to be the leading groundwater association that advocates the responsible development, management, and use of water. ###
02.21.2012	For Immediate Release: February 21, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement. She responded to Minnesota Governor Mark Dayton's letter, which urged Congresswoman Michele Bachmann (MN-06) to pass legislation that allows for the construction of an extra-dosed, mega-bridge to replace the current Stillwater Lift Bridge. "Governor Dayton is right that the burden of passing this legislation squarely rests with Congresswoman Bachmann. It's doubtful this flawed bill will pass the House on the Governor's timeline. I will continue working for a more fiscally-responsible, appropriately-scaled replacement bridge for Stillwater." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.20.2012	For Immediate Release: February 20, 2012 Contact: Michelle Hesterberg, 612-331-3315, mhesterberg@environmentminnesota.org SAINT PAUL – Facing extreme attacks on the environment in the U.S. House, over 170 students and community members joined Representative Betty McCollum on Monday for Coffee with Congress, hosted by Environment Minnesota and MPIRG, to discuss how to move forward to protect Minnesota's environment. The students and community members at the event thanked Congresswoman McCollum for her leadership on environmental issues in the House. "It is critical that we have strong champions like Congresswoman McCollum speaking up for us in Washington D.C.," said Michelle Hesterberg, who is a constituent of McCollum's in St. Paul and a Field Associate with Environment Minnesota. "We need to make sure we support the great work that Congresswoman McCollum is doing to keep our water clean, our air safe to breathe, and to move our country towards a clean energy economy." Environmental measures currently face significant political opposition in the U.S. House. Last year, the House voted 191 times to erode critical environmental protections like the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act, according to a report authored last December by members of the U.S. House's Energy and Commerce Committee. That amounts to one out of every five votes cast on the House floor in 2011. Though 2011 was a troubling year for the environment in the U.S. House, McCollum was not hesitant about laying out her vision for how to move forward to protect Minnesota's environment. "Investments in clean energy are the path to creating good jobs here in our community. This benefits our topline – the leaders in this sector AND our bottom line by spurring our economy and our ability to provide for ourselves and our families," McCollum said. Students and community members at the event agreed with McCollum that it is time that we move forward with clean energy solutions to safeguard public health and protect our environment. "Congress must start thinking about what's best for this county instead of what's best for big polluters," said Nick Matzke, Macalester student and MPIRG's Environmental Task Force Leader at Macalester. "Congress is making decisions today about our future and our children's future. We are going to have to live with the polluted environment they leave us, and it's time they start listening to us instead of BP and Exxon Mobil." But moving forward with clean energy solutions in the current U.S. House looks unlikely. This year, House Republican leaders have continued their assault on the environment. Earlier this month, for example, the House proposed eliminating all federal funding for public transit while opening our coasts and the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to oil drilling. "When it comes to the environment, this House is taking us down a dead end road to pollute our air, threaten our climate, endanger our country's treasured spaces, and grant oil corporations' every wish," Hesterberg stated. "America needs a smarter, cleaner energy future. It's time for us to transition from dirty, polluting energy sources that threaten our health to cleaner, smarter energy sources that keep our water clean and our air safe to breathe." ### Environment Minnesota is a statewide, citizen-based environmental advocacy organization. Follow us online at www.environmentminnesota.org. The Minnesota Public Interest Research Group is a nonprofit, nonpartisan consumer advocacy group. Follow us online at www.mpirg.org.
02.16.2012	For Immediate Release: February 16, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Yesterday, World Bank President Bob Zoellick announced that he would step down at the end of his first term in June 2012. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) – co-chair of the Caucus for Congressional-World Bank Dialogue – praised his guidance, particularly during challenging times. "President Zoellick has been an exceptional leader during a period of great global challenge. Through the financial collapse, the global food crisis, and periods of regional conflict and upheaval, Bob has provided steady leadership and swift response. He leaves the World Bank a more effective, accountable, and agile institution. He has been a pleasure to work with." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.13.2012	Contact: Megan Feld FHLB Des Moines 515.868.1897mfeld@fhlbdm.com Maria Reppas Office of Congresswoman Betty McCollum 202-225-6631Maria.Reppas@mail.house.gov (St. Paul, MN) – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum announced that St. Paul neighborhoods recieved $459,000 in housing grants through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines Affordable Housing Program (AHP). The funds will be used to rehabilitate and construct homes which will not only provide safe and decent housing, but also invigorate the local economy as construction and rehabilitation work begins. "The commitment from the BankCherokee, Bremer Bank, Community Neighborhood Housing Services, and South Metro Human Services represents a beneficial, generous commitment from the fi nancial and nonprofit sectors," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Such investments will not only benefit struggling Minnesotans in the short-term, but these grants will also strengthen and improve our community in the long-term." Community Neighborhood Housing Services and BankCherokee will use $159,000 in grant funds to rehabilitate 30 homes, making them safer and more energy efficient for families that otherwise may not have been able to afford the work required to make them safe and livable. "Between declining family incomes, the foreclosure crisis and aging housing stock, there is a growing need for a project like this in St. Paul," said Jason Peterson, executive director, Community Neighborhood Housing Services. "The grant provides an incredible incentive for homeowners to complete needed maintenance work on their homes." Community Neighborhood Housing Services provides a number of loan products to eligible homeowners and, under this program, the AHP grant funds will be combined with other funding sources to provide eligible homeowners with the necessary funds to rehabilitate their homes. The AHP grant will provide a $5,000 forgivable loan. South Metro Human Services and Bremer Bank will use a $300,000 AHP grant to partially fund the transformation of a vacant building into a purpose-built residential treatment facility, which will provide 16 units of transitional housing for adults diagnosed with mental illness. Residents will receive an array of mental health services that will assist them with stabilization, recovery and transition into a more permanent living situation. "We are excited to create a new Intensive Residential Treatment Services building for the people we serve and believe it will be one of the best in Minnesota," states South Metro Human Services President Tom Paul. "This new home for our Community Foundations program will allow our staff to offer critical services in an environment specifically designed for therapeutic treatment and recovery." Each year, FHLB Des Moines returns 10 percent of its net income to communities throughout its district through the Affordable Housing Program. These grants assist in the development of affordable owner-occupied and rental housing for very low-to-moderate income households. During its recent AHP round, the Bank awarded $15 million in grants through its member institutions including, Bremer Bank and BankCherokee, to fund 45 housing projects, which will help create or renovate 1,800 housing units across five states. Over $4.0 million was committed to projects in Minnesota. For a complete listing of AHP grant recipients, please visit www.fhlbdm.com. ••• The Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines is a wholesale cooperative bank that provides low-cost short and long-term funding and community lending to more than 1,200 members, including commercial banks, saving institutions, credit unions and insurance companies. The Bank is wholly owned by its members and receives no taxpayer funding. The Des Moines Bank serves Iowa, Minnesota, Missouri, North Dakota and South Dakota and is one of twelve regional Banks that make up the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
02.08.2012	For Immediate Release: February 8, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) supported the Obama Administration's decision to ensure contraception will be covered by most employer-sponsored health plans. "The Obama Administration's decision to require health plans to include FDA-approved birth control and other forms of contraception as part of a preventive health benefit is necessary to improving women's health and the health of their families. For women, access to contraception is medically necessary to ensure their health and well-being, according the Institute of Medicine. "This rule protects the rights of women while respecting the rights of churches, synagogues, temples, and mosques to not cover contraception based on their religious beliefs. "It is clear that Republicans in Congress and Republican presidential candidates are determined to deny American women access to contraception. I strongly support President Obama's efforts to improve women's health and to ensure access for women of all faiths to the services that meet their needs." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.01.2012	For Immediate Release: February 1, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) responded to the Susan G. Komen for the Cure Foundation's decision to stop breast cancer prevention and treatment funding to Planned Parenthood. This week, the Susan G. Komen Foundation announced it would not renew grants for breast cancer prevention, screening, and education at Planned Parenthood health centers nationwide. Foundation President Nancy Brinker said the Foundation had concerns because Planned Parenthood is being investigated by Congress. "Breast cancer is a disease that knows no politics, and the fact that the Susan G. Komen Foundation allowed the anti-choice agenda to take control of the issue is tragic," said Congresswoman McCollum. "It is disappointing that the Komen Foundation would use Congress as an excuse to discontinue grant funding that supports breast cancer screening, education, and prevention services. Ms. Brinker's defense is weak. I hope the Foundation reconsiders its position by making early detection a top priority." On September 15, 2011, Congressman Cliff Stearns (R-FL) sent a letter to Planned Parenthood announcing that his subcommittee was examining the institutional practices regarding their handling of federal funds. At the time, Congresswoman McCollum joined 84 of her colleagues in a letter to Congressman Stearns expressing their profound concern about his ideologically-motivated investigation. Planned Parenthood has been under attack from those who disagree with its mission to provide comprehensive health care to women. The Susan G. Komen Foundation claims that its guidelines prevent grants from going to organizations that are under any investigation by any government authority. (Congressman Stearns' current investigation has found no wrongdoing.) But these guidelines coincide with the hiring of Karen Handel, Senior Vice President of Public Policy. During her failed gubernatorial run in Georgia, she strongly advocated defunding Planned Parenthood. For nearly a century, Planned Parenthood has been providing millions of women and men with preventative and life-saving health services. Planned Parenthood serves women across the United States of all ages and incomes. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.24.2012	For Immediate Release: January 24, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following response to President Obama's State of the Union address to Congress. "Tonight the President delivered a powerful plan for action. Congress and the American people were given a clear blueprint for rebuilding our economy, strengthening the middle class, and restoring tax fairness for hard-working Americans who are not millionaires. Looking ahead, the choice for Congress is between an agenda for action for the middle class or more political obstruction. I know Democrats are to ready to get to work re-building America, and I hope my Republican colleagues join us." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.24.2012	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: Ellen Christman 703-224-2255echristman@mentoring.org Members of Congress Attend to Show Support for Youth Mentoring WASHINGTON, D.C. – The majestic Library of Congress (LOC), the world's largest library based on shelf space and number of books, served as the setting Monday night for the opening event of the second annual National Mentoring Summit. The event, uniting national youth mentoring organizations, administration officials, civic leaders, corporate executives and the country's foremost mentoring researchers, opened with remarks from Wim Kooyker, the chairman of the board of MENTOR: The National Mentoring Partnership. "I have been in investment banking my whole life and often, people ask you for investment predictions. I am reticent to make them. But I can make one prediction with absolute certainty--- the single best investment you will ever make is the investment in another human being. Mentoring is that investment." "An investment now, at this moment, in consistent, supportive relationships for this generation of young people means changing the future of our nation," Kooyker added. Along with his remarks, Kooyker noted a recent study out of Minnesota, which found that for every $1 invested into mentoring, society receives a 250 percent return. Backing Kooyker on the benefits of investing in mentoring programs, Head Librarian of the LOC, Dr. James Billington, told attendees of the work teens and high school students, and even small children, have already done and continue to do for the Library in conjunction with their local mentors. In support of youth mentoring, Representative Betty McCollum (D-Minn.) also took the LOC stage, pointing out that mentoring programs are "the fabric of our communities," helping to make communities healthier, safer and more livable. "The millions of individuals across the country who serve as mentors invest their time and energy to provide children with a supportive relationship," said Rep. McCollum. "With quality mentors on their side, young people are more likely to stay in school and to believe in themselves. This summit gives us the opportunity to emphasize the importance of mentoring in the lives of young people and to the future of our nation." Recounting the event this morning, Rep. Susan Davis (D-Cali.) noted, "Last night, I was honored to speak at the National Mentoring Summit in Washington, DC. It's a great occasion to celebrate mentors and the hard work they do in enriching the lives of children and youth across the country. As a former director of a mentoring program in San Diego, I have had the opportunity to witness first-hand the positive impact of mentoring and am proud to celebrate National Mentoring Month this January to recognize the importance of mentoring and strengthening federal investments in bettering the lives of young people in America." In addition to remarks made by the members of Congress, David Shapiro, CEO of MENTOR, announced that MENTOR, along with its board member Dr. Jean Rhodes, a pioneer in mentoring research, are working with the LOC on their Veteran's History Project, the next iteration. The Veteran's History Project (VHP) was created in 2000 by Congress with the goal of collecting oral histories, letters, photographs and other original materials from U.S. veterans. Volunteer interviewers have spoken with more than 75,000 veterans of World War I through current conflicts. All of the videotaped interviews and materials archived are available to the public at the LOC and through a searchable, online database. Documentary Filmmaker Ken Burns is the chairman of the VHP, and recently, Senator John Kerry expressed his great support of MENTOR's work to incorporate mentoring into the project. Rhodes has piloted an initiative where mentors and mentees work together to carry out these interviews with veterans, offering an opportunity for skill building, historical learning and a powerful mutual experience. MENTOR will expand this pilot to more matches across the country, which will offer this generation a first-hand sense of the sacrifices and bravery of those who served our country and enrich the historical treasures left behind for future generations. Another major announcement made by MENTOR CEO David Shapiro is the creation of an Illinois Mentoring Partnership. MENTOR, along with Founding Partners JP Morgan Chase, Accenture and X-FA, as well as business, civic and nonprofit leaders across Illinois, have provided the foundation for a sustainable and successful Illinois Mentoring Partnership. Already operational in 25 states nationwide, State Mentoring Partnerships help unify and build successful mentoring programs through proven standards, cutting-edge research and state-of-the-art tools, while also addressing challenges such as inconsistent quality among providers, inadequate funding for programs and a deficit of volunteers needed to serve to all youth. MENTOR is working with all the stakeholders above to bring this record of success to Illinois. The National Mentoring Summit is being held Tuesday, January 24, and Wednesday, January 25, at The Fairmont in Washington, D.C. The Summit's presenting sponsor is Viacom. Bank of America and BNY Mellon are supporting sponsors for the events. For more information or to attend, please contact Ellen Christman at (703)224-2255 or echristman@mentoring.org. ### About MENTOR MENTOR is the lead champion for youth mentoring in the United States. MENTOR's goal is to help children by providing a public voice, developing and delivering resources to mentoring programs nationwide and promoting quality for mentoring through standards, cutting-edge research and state of the art tools. MENTOR works closely with State Mentoring Partnerships and volunteer centers throughout the country, serving more than 3 million children in all 50 states. There are currently 18 million children in the US who want and need a mentor but only three million have one. MENTOR's mission is to close that gap so that every one of those 15 million children has a caring adult in their life. Founded in 1990, MENTOR is headquartered in Alexandria, Virginia. For more information, visit: www.mentoring.org About Big Brothers Big Sisters of America For more than 100 years, Big Brothers Big Sisters has operated under the belief that inherent in every child is the ability to succeed and thrive in life. As the nation's largest donor and volunteer supported mentoring network, Big Brothers Big Sisters' mission is to provide children facing adversity with strong and enduring, professionally supported one-to-one relationships that change their lives for the better, forever. Partnering with parents/guardians, schools, corporations and others in the community, Big Brothers Big Sisters carefully pairs children ("Littles") with screened volunteer mentors ("Bigs") and monitors and supports them in one-to-one mentoring matches throughout their course. The organization holds itself accountable for children in the program to achieve measurable outcomes, such as higher aspirations; greater confidence and better relationships; educational success; and avoidance of delinquency and other risky behaviors. Most children served by Big Brothers Big Sisters are in single-parent and low-income families or households where a parent is incarcerated. Headquartered in Philadelphia with a network of about 370 agencies across the country, Big Brothers Big Sisters serves nearly 250,000 children. About CNCS The Corporation for National and Community Service is a Federal agency with the mission to improve lives, strengthen communities, and foster civic engagement through service and volunteering. Last year, the agency engaged more than 5.5 million Americans in results-driven service through its Senior Corps, AmeriCorps, and Learn and Serve America programs. For more information, visit NationalService.gov. About The Harvard Mentoring Project The Harvard Mentoring Project (HMP) of the Harvard School of Public Health was launched in 1997 to mobilize the national media and leading Hollywood studios to promote the growth of the mentoring as a public health intervention of proven effectiveness for positive youth development. HMP is an initiative of the School's Center for Health Communication, which is dedicated to promoting the adoption of healthy behaviors through mass communication. The Harvard Mentoring School of Public Health and MENTOR created and spearheaded the first-ever National Mentoring Month in January 2002. For more information, visit WhoMentoredYou.org. About the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention The Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention (OJJDP) provides national leadership, coordination, and resources to prevent and respond to juvenile delinquency and victimization. OJJDP supports states and communities in their efforts to develop and implement effective and coordinated prevention and intervention programs and to improve the juvenile justice system so that it protects public safety, holds offenders accountable, and provides treatment and rehabilitative services tailored to the needs of juveniles and their families. For more information about OJJDP, visit www.ojjdp.gov About United Way USA United Way USA is comprised of more than 1,200 community-based United Ways in the U.S., and it is part of United Way Worldwide, a network of nearly 1,800 United Ways in 40 countries and territories. It advances the common good, creating opportunities for a better life for all, by focusing on education, income and health – the building blocks for a good quality of life. United Way recruits the people and organizations from all across the community who bring the passion, expertise and resources needed to get things done. LIVE UNITED is a call to action for everyone to become part of the change. For more information, please visit: www.LIVEUNITED.org About National Mentoring Month National Mentoring Month is a national campaign to recruit volunteer mentors, spearheaded by The Harvard Mentoring Project of the Harvard School of Public Health, MENTOR and the Corporation for National and Community Service. Held each January, the campaign highlights the crucial role played by mentors in helping young people achieve their potential. The campaign's goals are to mobilize larger numbers of community volunteers to serve as mentors to young people and to promote awareness of the power of mentoring to enhance a young person's prospects for leading a healthy and productive life. Research shows that mentoring programs have beneficial and long-term effects, increasing the rate of high school graduation and college attendance and decreasing the likelihood of substance abuse and other risky behaviors. For more information about National Mentoring Month, visit www.nationalmentoringmonth.org.
01.23.2012	For Immediate Release: January 23, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following response to the Senate's passage of St. Croix Bridge legislation (S. 1134). "It's no surprise that Senator Klobuchar's bill passed the Senate. But in the House, we need to find a common sense compromise because a $700 million bridge across the St. Croix River is bad fiscal policy, bad transportation policy, and bad environmental policy." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.20.2012	For Immediate Release: January 20, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) responded to the Obama administration's decision concerning the requirement for employers to cover contraceptives at no additional cost. Faith-based employers may receive a one-year waiver to come into compliance with the regulation. "I commend the Obama Administration's decision today on contraceptive coverage. This final rule appropriately maintains a narrow exemption for certain religious employers while providing church-affiliated universities and hospitals a year to comply with the requirement. The Obama administration struck the appropriate balance between respecting religious beliefs and the rights of women to access preventative health care." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.18.2012	For Immediate Release: January 18, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, opposing the Stop Online Piracy Act (H.R. 3261) and its Senate counterpart the PROTECT IP Act (S. 968). "I oppose SOPA because it threatens personal privacy, imposes unnecessary costs on Internet providers, and undermines open access to information on the web." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.17.2012	For Immediate Release: January 17, 2012 Contact: Maria Reppas (McCollum), (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Tracy Schario (Pew Charitable Trusts), 202.540.6582, tschario@pewtrusts.org St. Paul, MN – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) and the Pew Charitable Trusts hosted a roundtable with Minnesota clean energy business leaders. This event was part of Congresswoman McCollum's ongoing support of expanding a clean energy economy in Minnesota. Event participants included leaders from WindLogics, Inc., Harris Companies, tenKsolar, Geronimo Wind, MN Solar Energy Industries Association, Ever-Green Energy, the City of St. Paul and the State of Minnesota's Energy Office. "Supporting job growth and innovation in Minnesota's clean energy sector is a top priority for me," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Today's dialogue is an opportunity for leaders in business, government and the research community to increase our collaboration on a strategy to win the global clean energy race. Together, we can build a new energy economy in Minnesota that creates jobs, improves the environment and increases our energy independence." "Even in the midst of a global economic downturn, the global clean energy sector attracted a record $260 billion in private investment in 2011," said Phyllis Cuttino, director of the Pew Clean Energy Program. "By encouraging clean energy innovation, the growth of wind and solar power, electric and hybrid vehicles and energy-efficient equipment, technology and infrastructure, America can create jobs and businesses, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, save energy and protect the environment." In 2010, Pew found that the United States fell to number three behind China and Germany for clean energy private investment. Building a new clean energy economy will help the United States create jobs. Investing in renewable resources and energy efficiency will also lessen our dependence on coal and imported oil. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. The Pew Clean Energy Program seeks to accelerate the clean energy economy for national security, economic and environmental benefits. www.PewEnvironment.org/CleanEnergy. ####
12.22.2011	For Immediate Release: December 22, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov "Ending this needless political drama means 160 million working Americans will not see their taxes increase and that is good news for families and the economy. I hope this compromise sets the tone for addressing our nation's most serious problems in the coming year."
12.16.2011	For Immediate Release: December 16, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the Highland Park Ford Plant closing. "Today, I recognize the generations of families who have earned their livelihoods at the Highland Park Ford Plant on a job very well done. Since this plant first opened in 1924 rolling out Model Ts to today's Ranger, "quality is job one" has been not only the motto, but the ethic as workers have consistently earned top honors for productivity and quality. "The Highland Park Plant has always been unique. Based on Henry Ford's self-sustainability model, vehicles were produced almost from scratch. Sand for windshield glass was dug from mines below the plant and power was supplied by hydroelectricity from a neighboring dam on the Mississippi River – long before "green power" sources became popular. "During recent decades, workers' voices have been valued and appreciated by plant managers, demonstrating a successful model for labor-management relations. United Auto Workers Local 879, which has represented most employees, worked hard to share product ideas and negotiate contracts that ensured fair wages and benefits. "The last Ranger rolling off the assembly line marks the end of a proud 86-year era for the City of St. Paul and the state of Minnesota. Frequently, working at the Highland Park Plant has been a family affair, as multiple generations of families passed through its doors. This plant has helped build the middle class in our state, and workers more than returned the favor by winning numerous awards and building the highest-quality vehicles on the road. "This success was built on partnerships and would not have been complete without the unique relationship forged between the state, the United Auto Workers and the Ford Motor Company to create the innovative UAW-Ford-MnSCU Training Center, ensuring that workers were trained in the highest-tech skills. As city and state leaders consider the reuse of the plant, the important role of this model training center should not be forgotten. As our economy continues to recover, our state and our nation must be united in maintaining our highly-skilled workforce necessary to compete globally." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.15.2011	For Immediate Release: December 15, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the official end to American military operations in Iraq. "President Obama deserves tremendous credit for ending America's war in Iraq, honoring his commitment to bring all U.S. troops home. As commander-in-chief he has always set the appropriate course of action in Iraq while always honoring the service and sacrifice of our troops and our military families. "The Iraq War has been a tragedy for far too many American and Iraqi families. The human costs of this war – in deaths, suffering, and permanent loss – cannot be calculated. U.S. troops served and fought with a profound sense of duty to our country. For this, all Americans should be grateful. The family members and loved ones of our brave troops also endured tremendous sacrifices that can never be repaid. Those selfless Americans who sacrificed their lives and bodies in service to our country, we must always remember them and always fulfill the promises we have made to our veterans and their families. "At home we cannot ignore the war's other costs. The Iraq War directly added $800 billion to the nation's debt – a bill that will be paid by our children and grandchildren. Meeting the long-term health care needs of Iraq war veterans will require hundreds of billions more for decades to come and that's an obligation Congress must never balk at paying. "Over the past nine years, my opposition to this war has been well known. This was a war of political choice, not strategic necessity. Iraq is no longer ruled by a dictator, but the price the Iraqi people paid in death, destruction, violence, and misery casts a very dark shadow over their country's future. "In the final analysis, America's war in Iraq was a strategic and human tragedy that must not be repeated. Now, as armchair generals in their disgraced neo-conservative pinstripes plot their next misadventure, this time with Iran, the American people must not be fooled, not be driven by fear, and not yield to another expensive and painful war of choice." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.13.2011	For Immediate Release: December 13, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, opposing the Republicans' Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2011 (H.R. 3630). This legislation would lose benefits for 43,000 Minnesotans compared to just extending the current law. H.R. 3630 also reduces over $17 billion in funding for hospitals. "House Republicans have brought a bill to the floor under the guise of extending unemployment benefits that are set to expire at the end of this year. In reality, the legislation will scale back benefits by more than 40 weeks – cutting more than half of the total weeks that are federally-funded – for working people who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. In an absurd move, they have decided to permanently allow drug tests to be performed on those out of work who apply for unemployment benefits. "While I support stopping the scheduled 27.4 percent reduction in Medicare physician payments set to begin on January 1, it should not come at the expense of Minnesota hospitals and other health care providers." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.07.2011	For Immediate Release: December 7, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives, regarding President Obama's proposed payroll tax cut. "Mr. Speaker, the temporary payroll tax cut is putting money into the economy and the pockets of 160 million Americans. Now my Republican colleagues are demanding harmful cuts to working families and seniors to offset this middle class tax cut. "A better idea is to cut from the $1 trillion in special interest 'tax earmarks' identified by the bipartisan Simpson-Bowles Commission. Let's cut the $2 million earmark for wooden arrow manufacturers; let's cut the $40 million earmark for the owners of NASCAR racetracks; and let's cut the $235 million earmark for rum producers in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. "These tax earmarks are unfair, AND they are unaffordable. To the 99 percent of Americans who don't have a lobbyist, sorry, you missed out on this special interest bonanza. "Congress needs to protect working families. Let's pass President Obama's middle-class payroll tax cut to help our families and our economy now." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.05.2011	For Immediate Release: December 7, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in support of President Obama's call to extend the payroll tax cut for one additional year. "Extending the payroll tax cut for one more year is essential to millions of working families who are still struggling in this fragile economy. I applaud President Obama for his perseverance in fighting to prevent an unnecessary and ill timed tax increase on 160 million Americans. It is time for Congressional Republicans to end their opposition to extending this important tax relief for the middle class." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
11.30.2011	For Immediate Release: November 30, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act (H.R. 3094). This legislation represents yet another Republican tactic to dismantle unions and strip away workers' rights. H.R. 3094 would deny workers their right to a free and fair election to form a union. "I rise today in strong opposition to the so-called Workforce Democracy and Fairness Act. "The changes to union election procedures promoted in this bill are the exact opposite of the kind of fair and democratic policies that our working families need. Instead of focusing on job creation and the revitalization of our middle class, the Republicans in this chamber are once again promoting legislation that undermines the rights of American workers. "This proposed legislation would limit the ability of the National Labor Relations Board to interpret our nation's labor laws and to protect worker's right to unionize. For over 75 years, the National Labor Relations Act has guaranteed the rights of employees to organize and bargain collectively, or to refrain from such activity if they choose. During the New Deal, our predecessors in this body created the National Labor Relations Board as an independent agency charged with the oversight and enforcement of these rights. H.R. 3094, which overturns the rulings of the NLRB, undermines its charge to maintain fair and democratic relationships between unions and employers. "This legislation allows the problem of prolonged delays in union elections to continue unchecked by adding mandatory and arbitrary waiting periods. It seizes from workers the right to determine their own representative membership groups, which would allow unscrupulous businesses to suppress election drives and vote down union representation. It would also make it possible for irresponsible and frivolous litigation to endlessly delay the election process, effectively barring workers from their fundamental right to collective bargaining representation in the workplace. "Supporting and protecting America's workers is an essential part of rebuilding our economy and ensuring that all families and communities share in our nation's prosperity. Our middle class was built on the rights and safeguards that labor unions fought to obtain. From the 40 hour workweek to ending child labor, union representation has helped to guarantee rights that many of us take for granted today. "Unions negotiate for safe working conditions, living wages, and basic benefits that all impact all workers. Efforts to decrease the power of collective bargaining in this country in recent decades have been accompanied by an erosion of workers' benefits and greater income inequality. This year in Wisconsin and Ohio, we have seen voters reject recent attempts to strip away the rights of government workers, and we should likewise reject this attempt to limit access to these rights for those in the private workforce. "This bill does nothing to protect and support working families, and I urge my colleagues to stand up for workers rights and oppose this bill." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
11.21.2011	For Immediate Release: November 21, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to the Congressional Super Committee's failure to reach agreement on reducing the deficit. "With families across America making tough choices every day, it appears Republicans in Congress can't stop playing political games long enough to make some really difficult decisions for the future of the country. The Super Committee's failure means automatic cuts of $1.2 trillion in domestic and defense spending are now triggered. Even though these will be difficult cuts, I am strongly opposed to Republican proposals to tamper with the sequestration to protect defense contractors and their lobbyists." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
11.16.2011	For Immediate Release: November 16, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement after meeting with Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, and several members of the Minnesota and Wisconsin Congressional delegations to discuss a replacement bridge over the St. Croix River. During the meeting, Secretary LaHood proposed the formation of a working group to find consensus on the scope and size of this project. "Secretary LaHood has exactly the right approach in bringing Members of Congress together in a working group to build consensus on constructing a new St. Croix River bridge. If we embrace Secretary LaHood's proposal, we can get a bridge built that is fiscally responsible, appropriately scaled and meets the area's transportation needs. "Finding consensus is clearly important because today's meeting revealed Minnesota is now at risk of losing millions of dollars in federal transportation funding. With more than a thousand structurally deficient bridges, in addition to the Lift Bridge, those scarce dollars and the jobs they create must not be lost." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
11.15.2011	For Immediate Release: November 15, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Legislation will protect taxpayers from the $700 million "mega-bridge" while allowing for the faster construction of a less expensive bridge Washington, DC – Two Minnesota Members of Congress, Rep. Betty McCollum (MN04-DFL) and Rep. Keith Ellison (MN05-DFL), will introduce legislation tomorrow called the Fiscally Responsible St. Croix River Crossing Authorization Act to allow for a less expensive and appropriately scaled bridge to be constructed to replace the Stillwater Lift Bridge. The legislation includes environmental mitigation, a limitation on federal funding, and allows for an accelerated project timeline for construction. Most importantly, the McCollum-Ellison bill will protect taxpayers from the exotic $700 million "extradosed" mega-bridge (carrying only 18,000 cars daily), which is proposed in H.R. 850/S. 1134. The McCollum-Ellison legislation prohibits the use of federal funds for the construction of any bridge project exceeding $574 million in total cost. At a time of state and federal budget cuts and with 1,149 structurally deficient bridges in Minnesota, according to the Minnesota Department of Transportation, this legislation addresses a concern that the proposed $700 million St. Croix bridge is simply too expensive and will leave hundreds of Minnesota bridges in need of repair or replacement for years to come. "Building the biggest, most exotic and expensive bridge possible makes no sense when we have tremendous unmet transportation needs and taxpayers expect responsible investments. This legislation will be a compromise that allows an appropriately-scaled bridge to be built, not a gold-plated interstate bridge," McCollum said. McCollum and Ellison plan on introducing their legislation tomorrow prior to a meeting with Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, and members of the Minnesota and Wisconsin Congressional delegations to discuss the St. Croix River crossing project. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees ####
11.04.2011	For Immediate Release: November 4, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov McCollum Introduces the Child Marriage Violates the Human Rights of Girls Act of 2011 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) introduced the Child Marriage Violates the Human Rights of Girls Act of 2011 (H.R. 3357). This legislation recognizes child marriage as a violation of the most basic human rights. "Child marriage destroys the lives and futures of thousands of girls every day. The Child Marriage Violates the Human Rights of Girls Act of 2011 is a first step to make the United States a leader in the fight against child marriage." said Congresswoman McCollum. "This bill will require that federal agencies report on activities that prevent this most basic human rights abuse. It does not matter where in this world she lives; an 11 year old girl should never be anyone's wife. " H.R. 3357 declares child marriage to be a human rights abuse, and advocates for the elimination of child marriage as a U.S. foreign policy goal. Delving further into this global challenge, H.R. 3357requires the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and the State Department to collect and publicize data on the prevalence of child marriage and its impact on key U.S. development goals. Although it's unheard of in the United States, child marriage is still prominent in many developing countries, and the facts are shocking. Every day, over 25,000 young girls – some as young as eight years old – are married before they turn 18 years old. Quite often these young girls marry men who are much older. Child brides are more likely to endure domestic abuse and poverty. They are less likely to finish their education, which drastically limits any opportunity to work and live an independent life. Countries where child marriage is still practiced today include: Afghanistan, Chad, the Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Malawi, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Uganda, Zambia, and more. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.12.2011	For Immediate Release: October 12, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) submitted the following statement for the Congressional Record: "Mr. Speaker, I rise today in opposition to the three trade agreements this House is considering with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea, respectively. At a time when our national unemployment rate is at 9.1 percent, with 14 million Americans looking for work, we cannot afford to pass trade agreements that cost jobs here in the United States. Instead, I urge my colleagues to bring a real jobs bill – one that will create jobs for American workers – to the floor of the House immediately. "America depends on trade with countries around the world to expand export markets for our products and create good-paying jobs in the U.S. To achieve fair trade, agreements must not export U.S. jobs or economically harm communities. We must insist that all trade agreements promote environmental sustainability, workers' rights, and improved living standards for people throughout the world. The negotiated trade agreements with Colombia, Panama, and South Korea do not meet the standard of fair trade agreements and will leave Americans worse off. I do not support their passage. "In Colombia, the intimidation and murder of trade unionists and human rights workers is widespread. According to Human Rights Watch, over 50 trade unionists were murdered last year. The Colombian government's human rights record may be improving but it is still very poor. This is not the time to reward Colombia's poor record with a preferential trade arrangement. This agreement does not advance fair trade, and I urge my colleagues to vote against it. "The proposed free trade agreement with Panama fails to create any American jobs. Widely known as a tax haven for multinational corporations, Panama has not shown the inclination or ability to change its status as an off-shore tax shelter. This practice rewards U.S. companies that ship jobs overseas to avoid taxation here. This agreement does not advance fair trade, and I urge my colleagues to vote against it. "In South Korea, between 2001 and 2009, the U.S. ran a trade deficit in goods of approximately $125 billion. The Economic Policy Institute found that implementation of the Korea trade deal would increase U.S. trade deficit by $16.7 billion and result in 159,000 American jobs lost over the next seven years. According to Public Citizen, almost 8,000 good-paying jobs would be lost in the 4th Congressional District of Minnesota. This agreement does not advance fair trade, and I urge my colleagues to vote against it. "As we've seen with free trade agreements with China, NAFTA, and CAFTA, unfair trade deals cost American jobs. This is why Trade Adjustment Assistance (TAA) exists -- to provide training to workers who lose their jobs due to trade. Considering TAA while we consider these three agreements is evidence that these deals result in the loss of jobs here in the U.S. I support the passage of the needed TAA extension (H.R. 2832) in order to provide some protections for American workers. "For these reasons, I urge my colleagues to oppose these unfair trade deals and support the badly-needed extensions of TAA." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.07.2011	For Immediate Release: October 7, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today marks the tenth anniversary of the U.S. war in Afghanistan, the longest war in U.S. history. To date, the Afghan conflict has cost U.S. taxpayers $444 billion. The human sacrifice by U.S. troops has also been tremendous with nearly 1,800 American soldiers killed and an additional 14,000 troops wounded. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: "After ten years of war, U.S. forces have crippled the al Qaeda operations that launched the 9-11 attacks, diminished the Taliban, and given the Afghan people a chance to determine their own future. But during that time, so many sacrifices have been made by the 1,796 Americans who have given their lives in service and the thousands more who have endured injury. Another very real cost is that future American taxpayers will be paying for the nearly $450 billion borrowed for this war. "The people of Afghanistan and their leaders must be prepared to take on the task of providing security, governance, and economic opportunity for their own fellow citizens. I would like to see the 90,000 U.S. troops in Afghanistan come home and new Afghan leadership building their own country's future. Ten years is enough -- it is time to end the war in Afghanistan." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.23.2011	For Immediate Release: September 23, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) offered an amendment to the Transparency in Regulatory Analysis of Impacts on the Nation or TRAIN Act (H.R. 2401). Her amendment to protect the Great Lakes from toxic air and water pollution was defeated. All 232 Republicans in the House voted against protecting the Great Lakes. Given that Lake Superior is one of Minnesota's finest treasures and is of significant economic importance, Congresswoman McCollum was very disappointed that Representatives Chip Cravaack (MN-08), John Kline (MN-02), and Erik Paulsen (MN-03) voted against protecting the Great Lakes. During the House's consideration of this legislation, Congresswoman McCollum delivered the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives. "Mr. Speaker, let me be clear, this amendment does not kill the bill or send the bill back to committee. If this amendment is adopted, the bill will immediately be voted on for final passage. "This amendment is about protecting the Great Lakes – one of America's greatest treasures and most important natural resources. Those of us who represent states adjacent to the Great Lakes know and understand that any harm done to our Lakes threatens our economy and the health of our citizens. "Lake Superior, Lake Huron, Lake Michigan, Lake Erie and Lake Ontario make up the largest freshwater system in the entire world. Our Great Lakes hold 95 percent of America's freshwater and 20 percent of all the freshwater on the planet. Over 30 million people – about 10 percent of all Americans – rely on the Great Lakes for their drinking water. An estimated 1.5 million jobs are directly connected to the Great Lakes – and these jobs generate $62 billion in wages. "Over 40 years ago, this critical ecosystem and economic engine was on the verge of collapse. Time Magazine reported in August 1969 that, 'Lake Erie is in danger of dying by suffocation.' Now, the days are over when polluters dump toxic chemicals into the air and water without consequence because of responsible clean up policies like the Clean Air Act, the health of the Great Lakes has improved. "But threats to the Great Lakes have not disappeared. Air pollutants like mercury that are emitted from power plants, continue to fall to the ground, wash into the water, and build up in quantities that threatened the brain development of young children and adults. Rising mercury levels was one of the mounting threats that motivated an unprecedented coalition to action. "The Governors of the eight Great Lakes states – Republicans and Democrats – along with local government officials and leaders from Tribes, nonprofits and the private sector came together to save the Great Lakes. Early in last decade, they created a plan for the environmental restoration and economic recovery of the Great Lakes. In 2004, President Bush responded to this bipartisan effort by issuing an executive order that called the Great Lakes a "national treasure" and directed his cabinet to establish an interagency task force to support these state and local efforts. "Governor Scott Walker of Wisconsin and Governor Mark Dayton of Minnesota never agree about politics. And they certainly never agree on football. But as members of the Council of Great Lakes Governors, they do agree on the need to reduce air and water pollution in the Great Lakes. "Years of planning and partnership in the Great Lakes region – and in Washington – are now making a difference on the ground through the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. The Initiative is protecting drinking water, restoring fish and wildlife habitat and supporting the growth of small businesses that depend on healthy waters. Work is underway on over 300 projects across the region. My role as a legislator from the Great Lakes region is to do no harm to this effort. "The TRAIN Act will make the enforcement of many environmental protections uncertain and will create confusion in the EPA about which public health efforts they can pursue. This amendment does not give the EPA any new authority. Instead, it directs the EPA to use its existing authority to do what Republican and Democratic governors, mayors, state legislators and other elected officials in Great Lakes states agreed must be done – protect drinking water quality and public health. "Our job in Congress is to protect the Great Lakes, not to undo the hard work of all these Governors and industry leaders. My amendment makes it clear that the TRAIN Act won't prohibit this work from moving forward. "Let me be clear – this amendment does not kill the bill or send the bill back to committee. If this amendment is adopted, the bill will immediately be voted on for final passage. "Regardless of your position on the TRAIN Act – this amendment makes the bill stronger. Regardless of how you feel about the TRAIN Act, I'm sure you agree that Congress should protect the safety of drinking water and continue to ensure the viability of economic interests dependent upon a healthy Great Lakes. "Again, let me be clear, this amendment does not kill the bill or send the bill back to committee. If this amendment is adopted, the bill will immediately be voted on for final passage. "Colleagues, especially my Democratic and Republican colleagues from Great Lakes states, let us pass this amendment and fulfill our responsibility to protect the American people and the health of our Great Lakes." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.16.2011	For Immediate Release: September 16, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) today joined 74 Members of Congress (73 Democrats and 1 Republican) in sending a letter requesting the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to clarify its regulations for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) taxpayers who are married or in domestic partnerships. Presently 19 states recognize some legal same-sex relationships. The Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) does not recognize these legal relationships for federal tax purposes, leaving same-sex couples uncertain about how to complete their taxes. "The LGBT community still faces discrimination in this country and that is unacceptable. In this case, it's even more disturbing when this discrimination comes from our federal government," said Congresswoman McCollum. "The IRS has the ability to provide federal tax guidance to same-sex couples, and it should have done so years ago. The LGBT community deserves to be treated fairly and equally by the U.S. government not only for federal tax purposes but in any other situation." Because DOMA does not recognize same-sex relationships for federal tax purposes, LGBT taxpayers do not have clear guidance on tax regulations. For example, although the IRS recognizes community property rights for same-sex couples, the agency has not issued official guidance or updated systems to track income for same-sex couples. The Congressional letter states, "The IRS has the ability to provide specific guidance to ease the complexity and uncertainty surrounding these couples. While full equality cannot be achieved without repealing DOMA, this guidance will provide significant relief to hundreds of thousands of taxpayers, and save critical resources by avoiding unnecessary audits and inappropriate enforcement actions." Specific guidance for LGBT taxpayers will provide them with clarity and relief as they navigate the federal tax system. The IRS will also save money and time by avoiding wasteful audits of same-sex couples. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.11.2011	For Immediate Release: September 11, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. "The morning of September 11, 2001 is still vivid in my mind – it was the start of a beautiful day in Washington. The shock and horror that ensued that morning in New York City, in a Pennsylvania field, and at the Pentagon is embedded in me. It is a permanent element of the American psyche, and it fills us all with emotions, especially fear, anger, grief, and sadness. "The victims of 9/11 were lost that day, but the loved ones they left behind have spent ten years adapting to lives without husbands, mothers, brothers, and daughters. Even after ten years the loss must still be painful and difficult. "As a nation, we still feel the loss, the very sad sense of tragedy and hurt that touched us all. For all of us, September 11, 2001 remains a day that changed us and changed our future. "Our nation is strong. We as a people are far more powerful, resilient and righteous than the perpetrators of the attack. The lessons of 9/11 continue to be studied, debated, interpreted, and acted on – to our collective benefit and, in some cases, to our detriment. But after ten long, difficult years since that beautiful morning, the most important lesson I can draw upon is the profound blessing I feel to be an American and to share this country, our values, and our freedoms with my fellow citizens. "We are one nation, one people and the painful, horrific tragedy of 9/11 shall always be a reminder of what it means to be an American standing together, united with my fellow citizens. "On this tenth anniversary, my thoughts, prayers, and profound sense of gratitude are with the victims of this attack, the men and women who have sacrificed their lives and bodies to keep our nation safe, and the family members who grieve for loved ones lost on September 11th and the many days since in which our fellow citizens have sacrificed for our nation." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.08.2011	For Immediate Release: September 8, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's joint address to Congress. Tonight, the President presented for his American Jobs Act, which incorporates bipartisan ideas to stimulate job creation. "The President's common-sense proposal to put Americans back to work should be passed by Congress as soon as possible. However, even with millions of people out of work and hurting, passing this jobs package requires the Tea Party majority to act in a responsible, bipartisan manner which is doubtful. "For the past eight months, the world has witnessed an out-of-control Tea Party majority in Congress, harming our economy and stalling job growth with their posturing and political games. The American people want jobs, not dangerous and harmful Tea Party schemes to protect polluters, bust unions, eliminate Medicare, and outsource more jobs." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.02.2011	St. Paul, MN – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding Labor Day 2011. "On Labor Day, America pays respect to the men and women who work to keep our country prosperous, strong and successful. This Labor Day our country faces two great challenges: the need to put millions of Americans back to work and the battle against anti-union politicians supported by anti-union corporations. Job creation and protecting the rights of workers to organize, collectively bargain and have safe working conditions go hand-in-hand. The struggle for worker rights, dignity in the workplace, and quality employment for all Americans are top priorities for Democrats in Congress. "In contrast, Tea Party Republicans both in Congress and campaigning for the White House are gleefully working to break unions, strip unemployment insurance from innocent victims of this recession and are unwilling to work with Democrats and Independents to create jobs. Their agenda is to destroy labor unions and the rights of workers. "This Labor Day should serve as a wake-up call to all Americans who value their workplace rights. We can no longer take the hard fought rights of workers for granted. We only need to look at what happened to public employees in Wisconsin to know that. The very existence of organized labor in the United States is at stake in the coming year." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.31.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov St. Paul, MN – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement as the head of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and Democratic House Leader Nancy Pelosi announced a new U.S. commitment to famine relief at a University of Minnesota forum. "The famine sweeping across the Horn of Africa is causing unimaginable agony for millions of families in Somalia, Kenya and Ethiopia. This mounting humanitarian crisis demands that we match heartfelt words of sympathy with bold and immediate action." According to USAID, over 600,000 Somalis have fled to neighboring countries, some walking hundreds of miles to refugee camps in search of food and water. Nearly half of the children arriving at the camps are acutely malnourished. Across the eastern Horn of Africa, more than 12 million people are now in need of emergency assistance to survive. Representative McCollum has been a leader in Congress on the issue of global food security. She introduced the bi-partisan Global Food Security Act and has strongly supported the Obama Administration's agriculture development initiative – Feed The Future – as a Member of the House Appropriations Committee. The Congresswoman was unable to attend Wednesday's forum because of a prior commitment to accompany the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs to the State Fair for conversations with Minnesota veterans and leaders of the veteran's community. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.31.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov St. Paul, MN – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki's trip to Minnesota. Today, Secretary Shinseki met with veterans at the Minnesota State Fair and spoke at the American Legion Convention. "Today, Minnesota's veterans appreciated the opportunity to meet with Secretary Shinseki. Veterans voiced their concerns about several ongoing challenges they face when coming home from military service including high unemployment rates, access to quality mental health care, and support for homeless veterans. "I agree with President Obama and Secretary Shinseki that high unemployment among veterans is a problem that must be solved. Yesterday, President Obama proposed the idea of 'reverse boot camp,' which prepares recent veterans for civilian jobs by translating their military skills into industry-accepted licenses and credentials. I commend the President and Secretary Shinseki on their efforts to help put our veterans back to work. "Congress must work with the Obama administration and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure that those who bravely served our nation receive the benefits they deserve." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.11.2011	WASHINGTON, DC -- Ducks Unlimited recently held its Conservation Programs Committee (CPC) meeting in Bloomington, Minn. to discuss DU’s conservation projects and initiatives. As a portion of the meeting, DU invited CPC members, along with local members of the Minnesota congressional delegation and their staff, to attend breakfast meetings. U.S. Representative Betty McCollum attended the meetings and praised DU’s conservation efforts. “I was thrilled to meet this morning with national leaders from Ducks Unlimited. DU’s advocacy for responsible conservation and habitat preservation is more important than ever,” Congresswoman McCollum said. “Protecting critical habitat needs to be a priority for Congress and DU is sending a strong message to national policy makers.” Also attending the meetings were senior level congressional staff for Senator Amy Klobuchar and Representatives Michele Bachmann and Tim Walz. “Ducks Unlimited is pleased that Congresswoman McCollum and representatives of Senator Klobuchar, Congresswoman Bachmann, and Congressman Walz were able to attend our meetings. It gave them the opportunity to interact with senior DU volunteers from around the country to learn more about the efforts and interests of conservationist duck hunters,” DU Director of Governmental Affairs Scott Sutherland said. “Conservation programs not only play a vital role in waterfowl management that improves water quality, but this work positively impacts Minnesota’s economy. Our discussions also gave the congressional attendees a chance to discuss the situation in Congress and what they expect in the months ahead.” DU’s Conservation Programs Committee consists of board members and other senior volunteers from across the nation. They have extensive experience in supporting and promoting DU’s conservation efforts. The committee is charged with guiding and fostering land conservation efforts and advising the DU Board of Directors on decisions regarding “on the ground” conservation projects and initiatives. The group also collaborates with and helps guide DU staff on matters pertaining to public policy.
08.08.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov St. Paul, MN – U.S. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) issued the following statement in the aftermath of today's -5.5% / 634 point fall of the Dow Jones Industrial. Today was the first day of trading following Standard & Poor's (S&P) downgrade of U.S. long-term sovereign credit rating from a rating of "AAA" to "AA+." "The Tea Party Republican strategy of exploiting the debt ceiling increase into a political crisis has clearly damaged U.S. credibility in the global financial markets. The S&P downgrade cited 'political brinksmanship' and the willingness to use the debt ceiling as a "political bargaining chip." These factors can only be attributed to the irresponsible and irrational game playing of the Tea Party GOP House leadership and freshman. Today's turmoil on Wall Street and the ever increasing possibility of a recession are direct consequences of the Tea Party Republican's careless, destructive political conduct which is now devastating the markets and middle class America." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ###
08.04.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement as global financial markets plummeted and the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 512 points. This was the worst day for the Dow since the depths of the financial crisis in 2008. "Today, the stock market tumbled 512 points, wiping away billions of dollars from the retirement and education savings of middle class Americans. Every American should be concerned about the very real possibility of sliding into a 'Tea Party recession.' "Tea Party Republicans took the entire U.S. economy hostage over the debt ceiling increase and used this crisis to force trillions in cuts at a time when more, not less investment in the U.S. economy is needed. The destructive default politics and machete budget cutting of the Tea Party Republicans in Congress is exactly the wrong medicine for the ailing U.S. economy. "The Republican obsession with slashing government investment is totally counterproductive. The Tea Party's default crisis created enormous, unnecessary uncertainty in global markets. Congress should have raised the debt ceiling months ago and spent the summer working together in Congress on a growth agenda for the country. "Congress needs to restore confidence in the markets. Now is the time for President Obama and Congress – Democrats and Republicans – to focus 100 percent of our energy on strengthening and growing America's economy and creating jobs." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.01.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Budget Control Act Risks Economic Recovery, Job Creation Washington, DC – Tonight, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) joined 161 Democrats and Republicans in voting against the Budget Control Act Agreement (S. 365) otherwise known as the bipartisan debt ceiling compromise brokered by President Obama and Congressional leadership. During this process, Congresswoman McCollum has voted twice to increase the debt ceiling. Congresswoman McCollum released the following statement. "The Budget Control Act Agreement (S. 365) is a terrible bill that I strongly oppose. For the first time ever, one of America's political parties showed themselves willing to throw the nation into default on our debt obligations for the sake of politics. By holding an increase in the debt ceiling hostage as a negotiating strategy, the Tea Party Republican majority in the U.S. House of Representatives imperiled millions of jobs, businesses, and the economic well-being of every American. "The legislation that House Republicans are forcing on the country will slash trillions of dollars of investments at exactly the moment when more investment is needed to prevent our economy from sliding back into recession. Education, infrastructure, health research, public safety, clean energy and every other middle class priority will see cuts as a result of this bill. "Tying massive cuts to a debt ceiling increase is completely unnecessary, totally counterproductive, and it will make America's job crisis even worse. And, with this bill, the Republicans are tossing the heavy burden of deficit reduction onto America's middle class without asking even one penny from the nation's wealthiest individuals and corporations." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.30.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov As Tuesday's Debt Crisis Deadline Looms, House Republicans Defeat Sen. Reid's Budget Control Act and Take Sunday Off to Relax Washington, DC – Today, Republicans U.S. House of Representatives defeated the latest version of Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's Budget Control Act (H.R. 2693), a measure to raise the debt limit and reduce budget deficits over the next decade by a vote of 173 to 246. The legislation increases the debt limit by $1.2 trillion, ending the Republican manufactured crises, and included $2.2 trillion in deficit reduction according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office, without cutting Social Security, Medicare, or Medicaid. The following is a statement by Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) following her vote in favor of H.R. 2693: "Today, I voted for Majority Leader Reid's plan because I am committed to preventing a debt default that would harm every single family and business in America. This legislation protected Social Security and Medicare and it cuts $1 trillion from future deficits by guaranteeing an end to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan." "House Republicans overwhelmingly rejected the Reid plan even though it would put an end to this dangerous default debate and significantly cut deficits by trillions of dollars. The Republican majority did not give this serious bill serious consideration. They brought it to the floor under rules that require a two-thirds majority to pass – the process designated for noncontroversial measures such as naming post offices." "This means House Republicans have rejected one of the few solutions left for solving the default crisis they created. The American economy cannot withstand any more of these Republican political games. With time is running out to raise the debt ceiling and protect the economy it is time for any reasonable, responsible, mature members of the Republican caucus to come forward to work with Democrats to end this crisis. "Today's Wall Street Journal editorial articulated the reality of what I am seeing in Congress: 'Republicans are not looking like adults voters can entrust with government.'" Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.29.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – A few minutes ago, the U.S. House of Representatives passed the Republican Budget Control Act (S. 627) by a vote of 218-210 with Democrats unanimously voting against it. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement: "With our economy extremely fragile and 14 million Americans out of work, it is unfathomable that the Republican Tea Party controlled House of Representatives would risk our economic future by playing more political games with the debt ceiling. "Let me be clear, the bill on the floor this afternoon – Speaker Boehner's Budget Control Act – is a stunt; it is political theater that dies the moment Republicans pass it out of the House. S. 627 is dead on arrival in the U.S. Senate. President Obama has vowed to veto it because it only temporarily raises the debt ceiling, which means it only prolongs this debt ceiling crisis, almost guaranteeing a downgrading of the U.S. credit rating. S. 627 will result in higher interest rates for all Americans and every business – it will kill any hopes of a sustained economic recovery. "We're on the verge of a crisis, and it is time to end the political games, work towards a reasonable, responsible compromise that protects our economy and the American people." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.27.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov S. 1134 would exempt $700 million "mega-bridge" over St. Croix River from federal Wild and Scenic Rivers Act Washington, DC – In a letter to Members of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-MN) expressed her opposition to pending legislation that would allow a $700 million freeway-style bridge to be built over the St. Croix River between Minnesota and Wisconsin. The National Parks Subcommittee of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee will hold a hearing on Thursday, July 28th to take testimony on the St. Croix River Crossing Project Authorization Act (S. 1134), which exempts the proposed $700 million St. Croix Bridge from the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. McCollum's letter cites her concerns about the excessive cost of the bridge S. 1134 would allow to be built and the legislation's negative impact on the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. Congresswoman McCollum wrote, "A new bridge is needed to replace the obsolete lift bridge in Stillwater, Minnesota. However, more fiscally and environmentally responsible design alternatives are available." She cites that construction of the proposed "mega-bridge" with a $700 million price tag would be 250 percent more expensive than the most expensive bridge ever built in Minnesota. McCollum warned that exempting this bridge design from the national Wild and Scenic Rivers Act would fundamentally weaken a critical federal environmental law. "Because the proposed St. Croix Bridge design is so intrusive, passage of either bill would set a dangerously low standard for exclusions to Wild and Scenic Rivers Act protections that threatens every mile of every protected river in this national system," wrote Congresswoman McCollum. McCollum urged Senators to oppose S. 1134 and said the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act "...is the last protection for taxpayers against an irresponsible and over-sized boondoggle." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.22.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum, co-chair of the Congressional Friends of Norway Caucus, issued the following statement in response to news reports of a massive explosion in Oslo, Norway earlier today. “The reports of loss of life, injuries, and extensive property damage following the bombing and shooting in Norway today are of great concern to me and all Minnesotans. This senseless terrorist act must be condemned by all civilized nations and all people who seek peace. I want to extend my prayers and condolences to the people of Norway and let them know that their friends in America stand with them – always.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.19.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Radical Tea Party Republican Attempt to Balance Budget Instead Ends Medicare as We Know It Washington, DC – Today, the House Republicans' crusade to end Medicare continues as they push their Cut, Cap, and Balance Act (H.R. 2560) through Congress. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives, blasting the latest Republican attempt to reward the America's wealthiest individuals while burdening the middle class and seniors. "The bill on the floor right now is a political gimmick, a stunt, and not a serious effort. But, this bill does reflect Republican values. This Republican bill protects the wealthiest Americans. This Republican bill pummels seniors and the middle class. And, no surprise, this bill panders, even grovels, to Tea Party extremists. This bill will end the Medicare guarantee. This bill will kill jobs. And, thank goodness, this bill will never pass the Senate. This bill will never become law. "The Republican majority is wasting precious time as the clock ticks and ticks closer to default and economic disaster. The Republican majority is choosing to bring America to the brink of default for reasons that have everything to do with politics and nothing to do with responsible governing. The American people reject the Tea Party's dangerous brand of Armageddon economics. "It is time to take responsibility for paying America's bills and raise the debt ceiling without the Tea Party gimmicks and games. This Congress needs to take a serious stand and get busy creating jobs, putting people back to work, and getting this economy growing. Let's end the debate on this radical legislation right now Let's get to the real work of cutting deficits, creating jobs, and growing the economy." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.15.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov With 14 million Americans out of work McCollum also calls on Congress to cancel August recess and get busy on job creation legislation Washington, DC – As the Tea Party Republican inspired debt limit crisis intensifies, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) has introduced legislation to save the U.S. economy from what Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner has called "catastrophic damage" if the U.S. defaults on its obligations on August 2nd. McCollum's legislation allows for an immediate increase in the debt ceiling to $16.7 trillion to allow all current financial obligations of the U.S. to be paid. The Don't Default on America's Debts and Destroy American Jobs Act of 2011 (H.R. 2544) also calls for cancelling the traditional August Congressional recess so that Congress can pass legislation to increase job creation, reduce unemployment, and address the longterm deficit crisis. This legislation does not authorize any new federal spending. "This debt limit crisis is a political game manufactured by the Tea Party Republicans who seem willing to allow the U.S. to default on our debts and destroy the economy. This is an insane brand of Armageddon economics that must be stopped," McCollum said. "It is time for Democrats and reasonable Republicans to stand together and prevent an economic catastrophe. The House and Senate could pass this bill in half an hour if we had rational, responsible partners on the other side of the aisle." Treasury Secretary Geithner has indicated that August 2, 2011 is the deadline for the federal government to either raise the debt limit or face default on existing obligations. Economic experts from across the political spectrum agree that failing to raise the debt limit would throw the U.S. economy back into a recession. If the U.S. defaults on its debt it is likely interest rates will skyrocket and raise prices for everything – something millions of Americans cannot endure a second time. Credit rating organizations are already threatening a down-grading of the U.S. credit rating if Congress does not raise the debt ceiling. McCollum's legislation also calls on Congress to forgo its regular month-long August recess so Members can pass legislation to reduce unemployment, create jobs, and advance longterm deficit reduction options. "With 14 million Americans out of work, Congress should be in session working to strengthen the economy, create jobs, and move forward with a long-term deficit reduction strategy. Congress needs to be working this August, not out on vacation," McCollum said. The Republican-led House has been in charge for seven months and still hasn't proposed a single bill to create jobs or even rolled out a clear job creation plan. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.###
07.15.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the draft budget deal reached by Governor Dayton and State Republican Leaders. "Residents of Minnesota have endured the longest state government shutdown in both state and U.S. history – an unacceptable crisis that was entirely avoidable if not for Tea Party--Republican ultimatums that put jobs at risk, put our economy in peril, and ignore the needs of middle class families. "I share the belief with the Governor and the majority of Minnesotans that a lasting budget deal should include a balanced mix of responsible cuts and reasonable revenue increases. However, Tea Party Republicans running the State Legislature have made clear that their extreme agenda has little room for this fiscal common sense. Given this reality, Governor Dayton made the difficult choice to get state government working again and keep Minnesota from further slipping backwards. "It's clear this is not the deal that Governor Dayton, DFLers, or most Minnesotans wanted. However, it is the agreement that Republicans legislators forced onto Minnesotans and it is their deal to pass." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.07.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – This afternoon, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment offered by Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) to save taxpayers $124,800,000 by limiting Pentagon spending on military bands to $200 million in the Fiscal Year 2012 defense appropriations bill. The amendment passed the House by a vote of 226-201 with 90 Republicans joining 136 Democrats. The 2012 Defense Appropriations Act – H.R. 2219 – proposes to spend $650 billion to fund the Pentagon and war operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. "While I respect the service of military musicians, spending $325 million on bands and musical performances is excessive," said Congresswoman McCollum. "At a time when emergency nutritional support is being cut for hungry infants and women and other painful cuts to vulnerable Americans, spending more than $200 million on military bands is an extra America cannot afford." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.07.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – This morning, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) commended the federal government's commitment to improve the Native American communities. Earlier today, she participated in a House Appropriations Subcommittee markup of the Fiscal Year 2012 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill. This legislation sets funding levels for the Department of Interior, including the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the Indian Health Service, and other agencies within the Subcommittee's jurisdiction. "I applaud the Committee's bipartisan investment in Indian Country to enhance critical education and health programs," said Congresswoman McCollum. "When Congress works together with the Native American Nations, we can help improve the lives of future generations." "Despite these valuable investments for Indian Country, this legislation contained far too many destructive environmental policies that risk the health of all Americans," concluded Congresswoman McCollum. "It is because of these Draconian provisions, I will ultimately not be able to vote for this legislation as it stands today." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.07.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Earlier today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) participated in the markup of the Fiscal Year 2012 Interior and Environment Appropriations bill that sets funding levels for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), Department of Interior and other agencies within the subcommittee's jurisdiction. The proposed spending bill led by the House Republican majority includes drastic cuts that will threaten the safety of America's drinking water and let corporate polluters go free. During the markup, Congresswoman McCollum took a stand against these reckless cuts and confronted Republicans for inserting a long list of anti-environmental taxpayer giveaways into the legislation: "The Republicans on this Committee are deliberately choosing to prevent the EPA and other agencies from doing their jobs to protect the public health of families in Minnesota and across this country," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Republicans are giving polluters a free pass by slashing funding for the Clean Air Act and Clean Water Act to levels not seen in a decade. I strongly oppose the radical, anti-environmental agenda contained in this bill and reject the wrong-headed priorities it attempts to set with limited taxpayer dollars." In 2010, the EPA found the Clean Air Act saved 160,000 lives nationwide. By 2020, that number is expected to grow to 230,000 lives saved, leading to $2 trillion in economic benefits. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.30.2011	McCollum, Paulsen, Larsen, Sensenbrenner to Lead Bipartisan Caucus Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, D.C. - The House of Representatives officially launched the Friends of Norway Caucus for the 112th Congress on Thursday. Since its establishment in 1999, the Friends of Norway Caucus has worked to strengthen the relationship, and open dialogue, between the two nations on a variety of issues that have both bilateral and global impacts. This Congress, the caucus will be co-chaired by Representatives Betty McCollum (D-Minnesota), Erik Paulsen (R-Minnesota), Rick Larsen (D-Washington), and Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wisconsin). "Co-chairing the Friends of Norway Caucus is an honor and a privilege," said Congresswoman McCollum. "With over 850,000 Norwegian-Americans calling Minnesota home, I look forward to helping maintain the strong and important U.S.-Norwegian relationship." "The relationship fostered over the years between the U.S. and Norway is one built upon a common history, deep business and social ties, and a desire for peace and democracy," said Congressman Paulsen. "Serving as Co-Chair of the Friends of Norway Caucus gives me the opportunity to represent more than 100,000 Minnesotans of Norwegian heritage in my district, and perpetuate the important bonds between our two nations." "The United States and Norway share a rich economic, cultural and political relationship," said Congressman Larsen. "I am pleased to serve as a Co-Chair of the Friends of Norway Caucus which offers Members of Congress the opportunity to engage in dialogue with Norway and build upon the ties between our two countries." "I am pleased to serve as a Co-Chair on the Norway Caucus in the House of Representatives," said Congressman Sensenbrenner. "It presents a great forum for dialogue with our counterparts in the Norwegian Parliament and gives Members of Congress the opportunity to learn more about Norwegian culture." "The Norway Caucus is of great importance to the Norwegian Embassy as it is for the many Norwegian-Americans who take pride in their Norwegian ancestry," said Ambassador Wegger StrÃ¸mmen. "The caucus provides an arena for political and cultural exchanges between Norway and America. Some of the issues of particular importance include energy and climate policy, defence related matters as well as student and cultural exchange programs. I look forward to working with the Caucus of the 112th Congress." The Friends of Norway Caucus meets when suitable occasions occur, such as visits by Norwegian parliamentarians, or if issues of particular interest or concern to the more than 5 million Americans of Norwegian decent should be addressed. ###
06.28.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding a potential state government shutdown in Minnesota. "As a Member of Congress, I do not have authority over Minnesota's state budget. However, many of my constituents have called and written my office expressing their deep concern about the hardships a state government shutdown would impose on their families and communities. As a Minnesota resident, I share their concerns. "I know that Governor Dayton has heard clearly from Minnesotans that a balanced mix of cuts and revenue increases is necessary to reach a budget solution. I applaud the leadership the Governor has demonstrated by moving from his original position on revenue increases. Now it's time for Republican leaders to join the Governor in the middle to reach a compromise for the good of all Minnesotans." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.24.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement regarding the recent House of Representatives' votes on U.S. military operations in Libya. "Since the beginning of U.S. participation in military operations, I have supported the mission of the international coalition to protect Libyan civilians from atrocities at the hands of Colonel Qaddafi's security forces. Today, I voted to grant Congressional authorization for the limited U.S. role in the current NATO mission for a defined period of time. "Unfortunately, House Republicans decided to use today's floor debate on this important matter of national security to criticize our Commander-in-Chief. This political theater undermines U.S. credibility and does nothing to protect the lives of innocent Libyan civilians. America's credibility and the lives of countless innocent civilians are on the line. This is not the time to play politics." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.22.2011	For Immediate Release: June 22, 2011 Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the National Labor Relations Board's proposed rule change that would simplify regulations governing labor union representation. "Yesterday, the National Labor Relations Board announced a reasonable rule to restore fairness in the American workplace. This practical fix will streamline and repair the broken system that unnecessarily draws out representation elections for both workers and their employers. This proposed rule would reduce bureaucratic entanglement, reduce litigation costs, and allow electronic filing of documents to bring the process into the 21st Century. I find it hard to believe that some of my colleagues disagree with this moderate decision and would rather see this agency tied up in red tape." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.06.2011	For Immediate Release: June 6, 2011Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govJ Street-Sponsored Congressional Delegation Also Visits with New Egyptian Government and Palestinian LeadershipWashington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) and four other Democratic Members of Congress are in Egypt, Israel and the West Bank this week on a fact finding mission focused on Middle East peace. The trip is sponsored by the J Street Education Fund (JSEF) – a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. JSEF is part of J Street, which is a pro-Israel advocacy group based in Washington, DC. During a trip to Israel and the West Bank, the Congressional delegation sought meetings with senior Israeli officials to discuss the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.Following two days in Cairo where the delegation met with the Egypt's new political leadership, including Acting-President Mohamed Tantawi and Prime Minister, Essam Sharaf, the Members of Congress traveled to Israel. In Jerusalem, the delegation met with the leader of Kadima Party, Tzipi Livni, and they were introduced on the floor of the Knesset by Speaker of the Knesset. The delegation was not granted a meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu or other senior Likud Party leaders in the Prime Minister's office.Later in the week the delegation will meet with additional Israeli political and civil society leaders, along with the Palestinian political leaders.Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement:"I am pleased to be in Israel and our delegation has been warmly and graciously welcomed. This fact-finding mission is about seeing Israel up close and listening to voices committed to ensuring lasting peace and security for Israel and the Palestinians. While it is disappointing not to have the opportunity to pay my respects to the Prime Minister, his recent comments while in Washington, DC only demonstrated that many of Mr. Netanyahu's policies are impediments that prevent peace negotiations from going forward. Israelis who are willing to make the tough political choices to make a more secure and peaceful future for their children are Israelis who will play a critical role in this process."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
06.01.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Irresponsible Political Game Playing on U.S. Debt Obligations Puts National Security, U.S. Economy, and Millions of Jobs in Jeopardy Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the Republican rejection of H.R. 1954 to implement President Obama's request to increase the statutory limit on the public debt. The Secretary of the Treasury, Timothy Geithner, in a January 6, 2011 letter to Congress said, "Failure to increase the limit would be deeply irresponsible." Secretary Geithner added in that letter, "Even a very short-term or limited default would have catastrophic economic consequences that would last for decades." Despite this dire warning Republican leadership brought H.R. 1954 to the House floor for a vote with the intention of defeating it and all 236 Republicans voted against the bill. Congresswoman McCollum joined 96 Democrats and voted in favor of the legislation. She issued the following statement: "Tonight's vote was nothing less than Republican game playing with our government's debt obligations. This is a dangerous game that puts our national security, the U.S. economy, and millions of jobs in jeopardy. Congress had an opportunity tonight to ensure there are funds for our troops in harm's way and to protect America's fragile economic recovery as Congress and the President work to address the long-term fiscal crisis facing our nation. Instead the House Republican majority is signaling to global markets that it is willing to gamble with the full faith and credit of the United States." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.27.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Bi-Partisan Senate Bill Achieves the Same Fiscally Irresponsible Outcome as Bachmann LegislationWashington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding legislation (S. 1134) introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN), Senator Al Franken (D-MN), Senator Herb Kohl (D-WI), and Senator Ron Johnson (R-WI) to replace the Stillwater Lift Bridge with a $700 million mega-bridge over the St. Croix River. Similar to Congresswoman Michele Bachmann's legislation (H.R. 850), this proposal authorizes a freeway style bridge that is currently prohibited by the National Park Service because it violates the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. "This mega-bridge legislation is a fiscally irresponsible bipartisan plan that creates a transportation nightmare for residents along Minnesota Highway 36. Its language ignores much less expensive bridge options that meet the needs of Stillwater residents and comply with federal law – fiscally responsible options I strongly support. "This Senate legislation is a disappointment. It achieves exactly the same outcome as Congresswoman Bachmann's bill by removing protections for taxpayers in favor of an excessively large and costly bridge that overwhelmingly benefits Wisconsin. "This Senate bill doesn't change any of the facts or answer any of the concerns voiced by local officials and residents about this project. The Senate bill puts Minnesota taxpayers on the hook to fund the most expensive bridge ever built in the history of our state. If the traffic projections are accurate, this $700 million mega-bridge will push tens of thousands of semi-trailers and cars into the Minnesota Highway 36 corridor, which is already at capacity according to Minnesota Department of Transportation officials." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.26.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Amendment Reduces Spending on Musicians, Instruments, and Performances by $120 Million in FY12 Washington, DC – Today, the House of Representatives passed Congresswoman Betty McCollum's (MN-04) amendment (#153) to reduce the Department of Defense's spending on military musical bands by $120 million. Adopted as part of the fiscal year 2012 defense authorization bill (H.R. 1540), this amendment will cap Pentagon spending on military bands at $200 million. In Fiscal Year 2011, the Department of Defense estimates will spend $320 million on its music programs. "There's no question that we need to get America's budget under control. The question is how," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Families and communities across this country are being asked to make incredible sacrifices in the name of fiscal responsibility. It's time to ask the Pentagon to make a small sacrifice in their own musical budget. Military bands have an important place in our nation's history, but in a fiscal crisis, $200 million should be enough to continue that tradition." The Army currently has over 100 bands employing 4,600 full-time professional musicians and support staff. The National Guard, Air Force, and Navy also have dozens of bands with full-time musicians. Over the years, the number of bands and their cost to taxpayers has continued to grow, in part because Congress conducts no oversight over this portion of the budget. According to one senior defense analyst cited in a May 18, 2011 article in The Hill, the Pentagon could spend as much as $50 billion on military bands over the next 50 years. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.25.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) congratulated nine students from Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District on their acceptance to four U.S. military academies. These military institutions require a nomination from a Member of Congress for admission. "These nine students represent some of our state's most talented and brightest individuals. By taking this next step, they are preparing themselves to face tomorrow's challenges as leaders of our nation's armed services," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Each of them has earned this privilege, and now they have the challenge and the responsibility that comes with this privilege. I congratulate all of these outstanding individuals." The nine students from Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District are: Ryan Bruns, U.S. Air Force Academy – A resident of Maplewood, Ryan is a graduate of Tartan High School. Now a freshman at the University of St. Thomas, Ryan is a select member of the Aquinas Scholars Honors Program and a member of the Air Force ROTC. Taylor Curtiss, U.S. Air Force Academy – From Roseville, Taylor is a member of the National Honor Society at Benilde-St. Margaret's School. She competed in both varsity tennis and hockey for four years, and she was chosen captain of the tennis team this year. James Dimmick, U.S. Air Force Academy – James is a student at Cretin-Derham Hall, where he has been a teacher's assistant for three years as well as a top cadet in his Junior ROTC class. His extra-curricular activities include the Robotics Team, the political affairs club, and Cretin-Derham's sound crew. Nicholas Koop, U.S. Military Academy – A Roseville resident, Nicholas attends Cretin-Derham Hall. He has been a leader in Cretin-Derham's Junior ROTC program, and he is this year's co-commander of the Crack Drill Team as well as the Rifle Team. Currently, Nicholas is working to restore a veterans' memorial in Highland Park. Michael McDonald, U.S. Air Force Academy – A graduate of Mahtomedi High School, Michael presently attends Century College. He played Junior Hockey with the Sioux City Musketeers and recently competed with the Coulee Region Chill of the North American Hockey League. Aristotle Postiglione, U.S. Merchant Marine Academy – Originally from Mendota Heights, Ari is in his last year at Cretin-Derham Hall. For four years, he was a member of the honor roll. Aristotle was also a participant in the Junior ROTC. Since 2004, Ari has been the owner of his own lawn care and snow removal business. Charles Steveken, U.S. Naval Academy – A student at St. Thomas Academy, Charlie lives in Mendota Heights. During high school, he served as senior class president and student council president. Charles plays varsity baseball and football, and he is also captain of the Junior Gold Hockey Team. He is the nephew of two Naval Academy graduates. Alexandra Stych, U.S. Air Force Academy – Alexandra lives in North Oaks, and she attends Mounds View High School. A member of the National Honor Society and captain of the track team, she was a Level 10 Junior Olympic National Qualifier in gymnastics in 2010. Alexandra comes from a family with a long tradition of military service, and the Air Force Academy was her top choice. Eric Swanson, U.S. Naval Academy – Eric is a Shoreview resident who attends Mounds View High School in Arden Hills. A member of the National Honor Society, he was the captain of the swim team his senior year. Utilizing his musical talent, Eric participated in jazz and concert bands for four years. In his spare time, Eric is a mentor at Mounds View High School as well as a Sunday school teacher. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.25.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govDeclaration Will Bring Recovery Resources to Flood-Ravaged AreasWASHINGTON, D.C. —Today, U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and U.S. Reps. Collin Peterson and Betty McCollum (D-Minn.) announced that the major disaster declaration issued recently by President Obama has been expanded to 13 additional Minnesota counties, as well as the Red Lake Tribal Nation. The announcement will trigger federal resources to help these areas recover from major spring flooding."Many Minnesotans are still facing the damage from this spring's devastating floods," said Sen. Klobuchar. "This declaration will ensure that even more communities receive the assistance they need to help our families and businesses recover.""I'm very pleased that the president has expanded his federal disaster declaration to these flooded Minnesota communities," said Sen. Franken. "This spring, I toured flood-ravaged areas in the Red River Valley and saw firsthand the damage caused by rising floodwaters. This declaration will help these communities get back on their feet and help them prevent flooding in the future. My staff and I will continue to work with state and local officials to get these resources out to local communities as quickly as possible.""This year's flooding has once again caused extensive damage to public infrastructure across the state, and this declaration will bring needed relief to already strapped cities and counties impacted by this disaster," said Rep. Peterson."In the wake of this year's flooding across Minnesota, the federal government will be a partner with state and local efforts to ensure that our communities will get a jumpstart on recovery," said Rep. McCollum. "My St. Paul office is here to provide any assistance to affected Minnesotans who have questions or need immediate assistance."The additional areas designated for public assistance in the federal declaration are Becker, Beltrami, Kittson, Marshall, Norman, Otter Tail, Polk, Ramsey, Red Lake, Roseau, Swift, Washington, and Wright counties and the Red Lake Tribal Nation.The declaration means that the Federal Emergency Management Agency will cover 75 percent of the cost of repairing or replacing public infrastructure in the designated counties. It also includes hazard mitigation funds that can help communities to take steps to prevent damage from future flooding.###
05.24.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – Yesterday, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) spoke before the Second Annual Native American Health Care Conference hosted by Native Nation Events. This event aims to highlight the latest developments and legislative issues affecting to Native American health care. Congresswoman McCollum emphasized the need for the federal government to fulfill the trust relationship."The federal government has the responsibility to fulfill its trust obligations, so when I walk into facilities that are not up to standard – I am ashamed that our government has not lived up to its responsibility. The deplorable conditions I have witnessed at times are not the tribe's fault. They are the failure of the federal government to act responsibly. Because of this failure, Indian children attend school in dilapidated buildings that should be condemned. Yet we expect them to learn!," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This has to change, and this is why I am excited to stand here and be with you today, because I have seen Indian communities do amazing things when they are empowered and have the tools that are needed for success.""To have successful outcomes in Indian health, we need dedicated and health providers, engaged government officials, and we need funds. The only way to have real success is if every person in this audience, and all of your communities, and people like me are all standing together. You have the ideas and the solutions, but what you need are informed and engaged partners at every level of government. Throughout history, you have persevered, even in the most dire and trying circumstances, and even when our federal government has failed you time and time again. The time for failure is over."The Native American Health Care Conference was attended by over 80 tribes and leaders in the Native American community, Indian health program leaders, health care providers, medical personnel, and other Native American health advocates.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.23.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) reached out to the Minnesotans who were recently affected by the recent series of severe thunderstorms and a tornado. Her St. Paul office is available to anyone in need of assistance."My thoughts and prayers are with residents of Minneapolis and neighboring communities who have been impacted by Sunday's deadly tornado and severe thunderstorms. When families experience tragedy, all Minnesotans come together to help. Congressman Keith Ellison, Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak, and other Minneapolis officials are working hard to assist residents. My office stands ready to help as needed. Working together, we will help neighborhoods recover and rebuild."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.13.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – May 15-21, 2011 marks National Police Week to honor all the police officers who were injured or killed in the line of duty. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) welcomed nearly 100 Minnesota police officers and their families who were visiting Washington, DC for National Police Week.Last night, Congresswoman McCollum led the group through the Capitol Building, the floor of the House of Representatives, and the Congressional Visitors Center on a private tour."Having all of you here tonight is such an honor. Your work plays such a tremendous role in the safety and welfare of our community," said Congresswoman McCollum during last night's tour. "We cannot thank you and your families enough for the work you do each and every day."On May 1, 2010, Maplewood Police Sergeant Joseph Bergeron was shot and killed by two men while he was trying to apprehend a carjacking suspect. During the search to find the shooters, St. Paul Police Officer Longbehn was severely injured by one of the perpetrators.Tomorrow, the Emerald Society will present Officer Longbehn with its Officer of the Year Award to recognize his bravery and outstanding service to the citizens of St. Paul."During an extremely dangerous manhunt, Officer Longbehn risked his life to protect our community from a killer," concluded Congresswoman McCollum. "His courageous actions remind us of the sacrifices the men and women of law enforcement make every day."The Emerald Society is an organization made up of American police officers and fire fighters who are of Irish heritage.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.05.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – On Cinco de Mayo, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) commended Interior Secretary Ken Salazar for his advocacy on the potential National Museum of the American Latino, which would be part of the Smithsonian Institution. Secretary Salazar said he would urge Congress to approve this museum to honor Latinos' culture, art, and history."America's Latino community has played a significant contribution in our history, yet when it comes to documenting these accomplishments, the National Mall falls short," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Secretary Salazar is to be commended for his efforts in ensuring that the Latino population's story is told. I urge my colleagues in Congress to approve the construction of this important historical resource."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.02.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) released the following statement on President Obama's announcement tonight confirming the death of Osama bin Laden:"The death of Osama Bin Laden is the most significant blow to al Qaeda in the nearly ten years since the terrorist attacks on 9/11/2001. This is a just end to a mass murderer who targeted innocents and destroyed so many lives."President Obama, his national security team and our courageous military personnel are to be commended for their leadership in achieving this accomplishment."I hope that today's action provides some comfort to the families who lost loved ones in the attacks as well as families of our military personnel who have paid the ultimate sacrifice in the pursuit of terrorists who threaten our country."There is much more work ahead to keep our nation safe."I share the President's belief that this historic moment is an opportunity for all Americans to once again come together to remember our common ties. Our greatness as a nation and our continued security depend on our determination as Americans to protect our shared values."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.27.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govMINNEAPOLIS and ST. PAUL, Minn. -- At a time when Minnesota is faced with the state's first measles outbreak in years, national and state vaccination experts came together on the St. Paul campus of Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota this morning to discuss how to improve vaccination rates and keep Minnesota children safe from vaccine-preventable disease.Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota, in partnership with U.S. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), hosted the Minnesota Vaccination Awareness Forum. The theme of today's forum was "Our Community, Our Children, Our Responsibility: Vaccinate." The event was moderated by Patsy Stinchfield, CPNP, Children's director of infectious disease.The goal of the forum was to kick-off a statewide call to action to rally parents, providers and communities around the critical importance of vaccination in protecting public health. A panel of speakers representing Minnesota families and national, state, non-profit and private health organizations provided their insight on vaccinations trends and presented their thoughts on how to improve rates.Speakers and panelists at today's event included:* The Honorable Betty McCollum, U.S. congresswoman (MN-04)* Martin G. Myers, MD, emeritus professor, University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston; director, National Network for Immunization Information* Edward Ehlinger, MD, MSPH, commissioner, Minnesota Department of Health* Robert Jacobson, MD, pediatrician, Mayo Clinic; chair of AAP Immunization Task Force, Minnesota Chapter of American Academy of Pediatrics* Brendalee Flint & Hodan Hassan, Minnesota mothers and vaccination advocatesAlthough Minnesota has long been a leader in childhood vaccination, in recent years the rates for a number of vaccinations have become stagnant, placing Minnesota children at risk for vaccine-preventable disease.A report by Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota last month outlined the state's rates and called for convening state leaders to further the dialogue and map out ways to improve immunization rates. The full report can be found at www.childrensmn.org/checkups.In front of an audience at today's event that included state leaders in health care, policy and education, Congresswoman McCollum asked that all Minnesotans unite to promote on-time vaccinations, and challenged participants to increase Minnesota's rates to be among the highest in the nation. "Getting children vaccinated literally saves lives, including children in Minnesota," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Today's event demonstrates that the health care community is committed to educating parents about the importance of immunizations. Public health officials and policymakers have a responsibility to dispel myths and misinformation that put children and our public health system at risk."Other speakers discussed how science, health care practices and economics all support vaccinating children. They also presented on the importance of separating the myths from the facts about vaccinations – a message that is especially timely in light of the 21 cases of measles that have been reported in the state since March."Our state has always been a leader in children's health. But one danger of success is complacency," said Stinchfield. "The recent outbreak of measles and resulting hospitalizations are of great concern. We were glad to see so many people at today's forum willing to commit to meaningful action that will help ensure every child in Minnesota is protected from these preventable diseases."To raise additional awareness to the subject of immunizations, Gov. Mark Dayton has proclaimed the week of April 24 Minnesota Vaccine Awareness Week.About Children's Hospitals and Clinics of MinnesotaServing as Minnesota's children's hospital since 1924, Children's Hospitals and Clinics of Minnesota is one of the largest pediatric health care organization in the United States, with 340 staffed beds at its two hospitals in St. Paul and Minneapolis. An independent, not-for-profit health care system, Children's of Minnesota provides care through more than 12,000 inpatient visits and more than 200,000 emergency room and other outpatient visits every year. Children's is the only Minnesota hospital system to provide comprehensive care exclusively to children.Children's is regularly ranked among the top pediatric hospitals in the nation by U.S. News & World Report, most recently in 2010 for its neonatal care. Once again in 2010, Children's was recognized by the Leapfrog Group as one of the seven top hospitals in the country for quality and efficiency. In addition, the American Nurses Credentialing Center has named Children's a Magnet hospital, a designation that recognizes excellence in nursing.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.26.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govST. PAUL, MN – Central Corridor LRT partners signed on the ceremonial dotted line today, sealing the deal on the federal government's commitment to pay half the cost of building the rail line between Minneapolis and St. Paul.According to the head of the Federal Transit Administration, the Twin Cities region demonstrated a strong state and local partnership with solid funding commitments to qualify for the level of financial support that the federal government today committed to the project."This project truly embodies the president's vision for winning the future through infrastructure investment. It will create thousands of construction jobs now while paving the way for many thousands of jobs that will come to the Twin Cities through the economic development successes surrounding the new rail line," FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff told an enthusiastic gathering of more than 100 local, state and federal officials at the Harold E. Stassen Building in St. Paul. The building overlooks the route and the future site of the Capitol East Station.The project will create 3,400 construction, management, engineering and operation jobs through 2014. Once up and running, LRT trains will take people to and from their jobs, school, medical appointments and other critical destinations.State/Local Funding CommitmentsThe cause for celebration was the signing of the Full Funding Grant Agreement between the FTA and Metropolitan Council as the grantee. The FFGA contractually commits the federal government to paying $478 million or half the cost of building the $957 million line linking St. Paul and Minneapolis.Thirty percent of the project funding comes from the Counties Transit Improvement Board (CTIB), 9 percent from the state, 7 percent from Ramsey County, 3 percent from Hennepin County and less than 1 percent from Met Council, the city of St. Paul and Central Corridor Funders Collaborative.By 2030, weekday ridership – projected to exceed 40,000 – will top Hiawatha LRT ridership as people gain new access to nearly 300,000 jobs in the two downtowns, at the University of Minnesota and in the neighborhoods in between."Central Corridor represents an historic economic opportunity to connect St. Paul residents to jobs, businesses, services and educational opportunities throughout the region," said Mayor Chris Coleman. "At the same time, it'll transform one of St. Paul's most iconic streets and strengthen the communities that surround it.""On this day that is 30 years in the making, we must recommit to making Central Corridor all that it can be: to heal the wound that a freeway opened in the West Bank decades ago, to fully integrate light rail with every mode of transit, and to connect transit-dependent communities to every opportunity," said Minneapolis Mayor R.T. Rybak.A Regional Network of Transit Corridors"We are turning into reality our vision of a network of interconnected transitways," said Hennepin County Commissioner Peter McLaughlin.McLaughlin is also the chair of the Counties Transit Improvement Board, comprised of the five metro counties investing their sales tax to expand transit options, mitigate congestion, enhance economic growth and improve environmental stability for the region.The Central Corridor light-rail line will revitalize University Avenue as a lifeline between Minneapolis and St. Paul. Streetcars operated on University Avenue continuously from December 1890 to Oct. 31, 1953. With a streetcar operating as often as every three minutes, there was an energy and vibrancy to the street life along the avenue.Supporters expect Central Corridor line will rekindle that same kind of energy and enthusiasm as neighbors meet neighbors, students meet professors and business people meet customers aboard busy trains and at busy rail stops."When completed, this project will bring the community together in a way not seen since the age of the street car, but also in a manner modern and contemporary," said Ramsey County Commissioner Jim McDonough. In addition to his support for the rail corridor, Commissioner McDonough is active in returning the Union Depot to its former glory and ensuring Central's St. Paul terminus is a hub of activity as well as a multimodal transit hub.Thirty Years in the PlanningAfter initial planning activities that date back as far as 1981, the Ramsey County Regional Railroad Authority began work in 2001 to prepare an Alternatives Analysis and Environmental Impact Statement. The AA and EIS were released in 2006 and identified LRT as the mode of choice, and University and Washington avenues as the preferred route. The project was turned over later that year to the Metropolitan Council to design and build the line.Today, Central Corridor LRT is the largest single public works project ever in the state of Minnesota."The federal grant commitment of $478 million is the largest federal grant ever received in Minnesota for a transportation project," said Metropolitan Council Chair Sue Haigh."With this agreement with the Federal Transit Administration, the Twin Cities region will have generated more than $1 billion in FTA grants, including $364 million for Hiawatha, $157 million for Northstar and $478 million for Central Corridor."Rep. Betty McCollum, whose district includes the rail line, collaborated with state and local officials to secure federal funding for Central Corridor as a member of the House Appropriations Committee."Today's federal commitment to the Central Corridor represents a great achievement for Minnesota," McCollum said. "The Central Corridor is an investment in infrastructure that will help meet the demands of our growing community and create new economic opportunities for generations to come.""With this commitment, the federal government has recognized that the Central Corridor is not only an important part of an efficient transportation system in Minnesota, but also a vital piece of our efforts to ensure economic vitality in the Twin Cities and beyond," Sen. Al Franken said. "This new rail line will offer a critical transportation alternative for commuters and create badly needed jobs in our region."About the Central Corridor LRT ProjectThe Central Corridor Light Rail Transit Project will link downtown St. Paul and downtown Minneapolis along Washington and University avenues via the state Capitol and University of Minnesota. Construction began in 2010 on the planned 11-mile Central Corridor line, and service will begin in 2014.The line will connect with the Hiawatha LRT line at the Metrodome station in Minneapolis and the Northstar commuter rail line at the new Target Field Station.The Metropolitan Council is the grantee of federal funds. The regional government agency is charged with building the line in partnership with the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The Central Corridor Management Committee, which includes the mayors of St. Paul and Minneapolis, commissioners from Ramsey and Hennepin counties and the University of Minnesota, provides advice and oversight.Funding is provided by the Federal Transit Administration, Counties Transit Improvement Board, state of Minnesota, Ramsey and Hennepin counties' regional railroad authorities, city of St. Paul, Metropolitan Council and the Central Corridor Funders Collaborative. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.19.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – In remembrance of the Cambodian genocide, which lasted from April 1975 to January 1979, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) cosponsored a Congressional resolution honoring the victims and their families. The Honoring the Victims of the Cambodian Genocide resolution (H.Res.225) – sponsored by Congresswoman Laura Richardson (CA-37) – provides healing to the survivors and their families and advocates for continuing efforts to pursue justice."Minnesota has a tradition of welcoming refugees, including over four thousand Cambodians who have built new lives here," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Representing these refugees is an honor. Although the Khmer Rouge's atrocities should never be forgotten, the Honoring the Victims of the Cambodian Genocide resolution will help to bring a measure of closure and justice to the victims."After capturing Cambodia's capital Phnom Pehn, the Khmer Rouge murdered two million Cambodians over four years – close to 25 percent of the population. The Khmer Rouge established concentration camps where innocent women, men, and children were forced to work under strenuous and inhumane conditions. Many were tortured and executed.Today, there are over 240,000 Cambodians living in the United States. Minnesota is proud to be the home of 4,000 of these Cambodian Americans who enrich our community.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.19.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to Standard & Poor's recent assessment on the nation's debt. "S&P is a questionable authority since their AAA ratings of mortgage backed securities helped bring on the financial crisis, which has exacerbated America's fiscal crisis. Furthermore, it really isn't news that Congress needs to get to work on a balanced, long-term approach to deficit reduction. Democrats and Republicans need to agree on an honest deficit reduction proposal which raises revenues, cuts defense and domestic spending, eliminates tax perks, and reforms entitlements. Anything else is re-election politics wrapped in the same old voodoo economics." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.14.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in the House of Representatives, regarding Republican attempts to abolish Medicare for future generations. "Contrary to what Republicans have said on the floor, the Republican budget will impose new cuts on today's seniors. "The Republican plan repeals the Affordable Care Act, which strengthens Medicare and reduces costs. For seniors on Medicare today, the Republican plan brings back the 'donut hole' - forcing seniors to pay more for your prescription drugs. It repeals seniors' free annual checkup and gets rid of reforms to better manage their chronic conditions. The Republican plan eliminates Medicare altogether and instead hands future seniors a voucher and kicks them into the black hole of private health insurance. "All Americans – pay attention those of you who are 54 years and younger – you have been put on notice – start saving now. In addition to savings for your retirement, you need to save for the new out-of-pocket spending your health care will incur. "The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that seniors will be forced to pay an additional $6,000 a year on health care. That is $12,000 for a couple. And that is the best case scenario for seniors can expect. "This plan before us today begins doubling out-of-pocket spending for seniors and it will only increase from there. "When you dig a little deeper you realize more than half of Medicare beneficiaries today have at least five or more chronic conditions. What awful choices will seniors be forced to make when their health care costs far outstrip their voucher? Will they be able to afford their diabetes care? Will they be able to afford to go to their doctor for a colonoscopy or mammography? "It seems to me that the only seniors who will benefit from the Republican proposal are the senior insurance executives. Vote no on the Republican plan. Vote no to save and protect Medicare for our seniors." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.12.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – Tonight, the Congressional Hunger Center honored Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) for her leadership in Congress on domestic and international hunger issues. Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO) and Congressman James P. McGovern (D-MA) – bipartisan co-chairs of the Congressional Hunger Center – presented Congresswoman McCollum with the award."All human, social, economic, and political development is built on a foundation of food security," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Whether in my home state of Minnesota or Washington, DC, in Guatemala or Ethiopia – access to nutritious food – is the most basic and fundamental element contributing to the success of a child, a family, a community, and the successful development of a country."Throughout her time in Congress, Congresswoman McCollum has made ending domestic and international hunger a priority. She has strongly supported foreign assistance; Women, Infants, and Children (WIC); food stamp; and other nutrition safety net programs. Most notably, Congresswoman McCollum introduced the Global Food Security Act , which address widespread hunger and poverty."For families in America and everywhere else in this world where children are too hungry to sleep, to learn, or to grow – food security must be our goal," concluded Congresswoman McCollum.The Congressional Hunger Center is a nonprofit that works to fight hunger. Advocates include Members of Congress and Capitol Hill staff who focus on hunger and poverty. The Congressional Hunger Center also works with hundreds organizations fighting hunger throughout the United States and overseas.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.08.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on possibility of a government shutdown. "Shutting down the federal government has been the Tea Party Republicans' goal since last November. Any temporary shutdown of the federal government can only be called a short-sighted, hollow victory for Tea Party extremism over common sense compromise. Their victory is a loss for the American people. "I believe compromise was possible and continues to be possible. My job is not to shutdown government, but to work for the families and constituents I was elected to serve. On Monday morning my offices in St. Paul and Washington will be open for business. My staff and I will not be held hostage by these destructive Tea Party tactics. We will be working to serve the residents of Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.07.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – As House Republicans once again fail to come to an agreement with Senate Democrats and President Obama, the country is facing a federal government shutdown, starting Saturday, April 9. Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement. "A government shutdown will disrupt the economy, cost taxpayers billions in delays, and could derail America's economic recovery. It is an unacceptable outcome when compromise is possible. Congress must pass a fair budget compromise that makes real cuts, but without the ideologically driven policy prohibitions attacking women's health and critical environmental protections. "Unfortunately, this era of Tea Party politics rejects compromise regardless of the harsh and harmful consequences. President Obama has already met Tea Party Republicans more than halfway by offering $33 billion in cuts to the rest of Fiscal Year 2011. Speaker Boehner and his Tea Party majority have a choice to make: work with Democrats to find common ground and keep the government working or remain uncompromising and shutdown the federal government." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.01.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Over $660 million of U.S. Taxpayer Dollars Have Funded an Ineffective and Unnecessary Program Washington, DC –Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) introduced the Stop Wasting Taxpayer Money On Cuba Broadcasting Act (H.R. 1317) to end U.S. taxpayer funding for Radio and Television MartÃ­. Originally established in the 1980s, Radio and Television MartÃ­ broadcast news in Spanish from Florida to Cuba. "I am working to identify smart cuts that reduce the federal deficit by eliminating ineffective, outdated, and unnecessary programs," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This legislation would save U.S. taxpayers $300 million over the coming decade by ending wasteful broadcasting programs to Cuba known as Radio and TV MartÃ­." Independent surveys of the program found that up to 99 percent of Cubans never hear or see these broadcasts because the Cuban government blocks the signal, and the information that does get through is largely ignored by the Cuban people. Despite the program's ineffectiveness, U.S. taxpayers have spent more than $660 million on Radio and Television MartÃ­ over the past 20 years. "The Cold War is over, and Cuba is not a threat to the United States. It is time for the United States to open trade and travel with Cuba, not waste precious federal dollars beaming questionable content at Havana. "This legislation is an obvious, no-regrets step to reduce the federal deficit. It is an alternative to the approach taken by House Republicans, who are slashing critical funds for homeless veterans, women's health, transportation, education and dozens other vital community resources," concluded Congresswoman McCollum. "Every serious fiscal conservative in Congress should support this bill." A companion bill to H.R. 1317 has been introduced in the Senate by Senator Mark Pryor (D-AR). Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees ####
03.29.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) responded to President Obama's address to the nation on the U.S. involvement in Libya."I support America's limited role in the international effort to protect Libyan civilians from being massacred by the tyrant Qaddafi. I agree with President Obama that standing idly by while Qaddafi made good on his edict to slaughter 700,000 Libyans in Benghazi – including women, children, and the elderly – would be an unacceptable blow to America's values and the security of the region. However, the success of the rebels' military campaign to remove Qaddafi from power is in the hands of the Libyan people, not the United States."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
03.28.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the passing of former Congresswoman and vice presidential candidate Geraldine Ferraro. "Selected by Minnesota's own Vice President Walter Mondale, Geraldine Ferraro's nomination for Vice President represented a pivotal moment in American politics. No longer is the race for president for men only as evidenced by the 2008 presidential election. "Congresswoman Ferraro's vice presidential nomination paved the way for other women to become prominent leaders in American politics, including members of the President's Cabinet and judges on the Supreme Court. This list includes former Secretary of State Madeline Albright; Secretary of State Hillary Clinton; former Attorney General Janet Reno; Supreme Court Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Elena Kagan, and Sonia Sotomayor; and former Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. "Congresswoman Ferraro's historic nomination has and will continue to inspire many more women to step up and lend their valuable voices to the political process. My thoughts and prayers are with her family." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.25.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN—Putting the focus on patients instead of politics, the newly formed Minnesota Patient Advocacy Coalition held a press conference Friday, March 25th at the State Office Building to mark the one year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act.The coalition, consisting of more than a dozen health and patient groups representing the elderly, the disabled, patients, survivors and caregivers whose lives have been impacted by diseases or chronic conditions such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes, HIV, arthritis and Multiple Sclerosis, is dedicated to giving patients a stronger voice in the capitol and improving access to affordable health care for all Minnesotans."For far too long, far too many people have been forced to make the difficult choice between saving their lives and their life savings," said Robianne Schultz, a cancer patient and member of the Patient Advocacy Coalition. "The Affordable Care Act, while not perfect, includes significant patient protections that need to be fully implemented."Patient from across the state told their stories about their struggles with health insurance coverage and how provisions of the Affordable Care Act will benefit them and their families. "I have only tried to do the right thing to maintain my health and it has been a struggle at every turn," says Lisa Chevalier, a mother of 2 who has been diagnosed with Lynch syndrome, a genetic condition that puts her at high risk for developing colon cancer. "The Affordable Care Act contains the kind of health insurance reform that will help people like me."Minnesota's 4th District Congresswoman Betty McCollum, who spoke about the benefits of the Act to patients, said "We heard firsthand today how the Affordable Care Act provides more options and greater security for Minnesotans in their health care. I am fighting to save the reforms that are making a difference in the lives of my constituents."That includes families like the Arntsens of Duluth. Alyssa Arntsen, mother of 3 girls, spoke about the benefits to two of daughters who have type I juvenile onset diabetes. "We are no longer faced with the prospect of our daughters being denied insurance coverage because of their pre-existing condition," Arntsen said during the press conference.Other speakers included Sen. Al Franken, Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Health, Dr. Ed Ehlinger, and Congressman Keith Ellison from Minnesota's 5th District. "This is going to help all Americans because it will bring down the unsustainable cost of health care in this country," said Sen. Franken.The Patient Advocacy Coalition was celebrating the Affordable Care Act and its benefits to patients, including:• Prohibiting discrimination against children and adults with pre-existing medical conditions,• Dependent coverage extended until age 26,• No rescission of insurance coverage,• Prohibit lifetime limits on insurance coverage,• Prohibit restrictive annual limits on coverage,• Guarantee coverage for preventive care with no out-of-pocket costs, and• Close the Medicare prescription drug doughnut hole.Coalition focuses on putting patients ahead of politics ####
03.23.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman McCollum Visits the Boynton Health Service Washington, DC–This week marks the one year anniversary of the enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148). Millions of Americans are already receiving enhanced health benefits and enjoying new patient protections. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement, regarding the health care law's first year: "This week, I met with officials from the Boynton Health Service and saw first hand how federal health care reform is making a difference for students in Minnesota. As a result of the law, 16,000 young adults in Minnesota can remain on their parents' health care policy until the age of 26. Minnesotans under the age of 19 cannot be denied coverage by an insurance company for having a 'pre-existing condition.' And the deficit reduction measures included in the Affordable Care Act will prevent over $1 trillion in federal debt falling on the shoulders of young people across this country. "Only one year after enactment, federal healthcare reform is already making good on the promise of expanding health insurance coverage, increasing access to quality health care, and extending consumer protections against insurance company abuses. Across America, 4 million small businesses are now eligible for tax credits that help them provide coverage for their employees. Seniors who fall into the Medicare Part D 'donut hole' are receiving 50 percent discounts on brand name drugs. And families will never again be forced into bankruptcy because an insurance company placed lifetime limits on their health coverage. This law is working for the American people even before the full benefits go into effect in 2014. "Unfortunately, Republicans in Congress ignore the improvements health reform is making in their communities and continue to attack the law with false or misleading claims. In January, House Republicans passed a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act without offering an alternative package of reforms to consider. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office determined the Republican repeal of healthcare would increase federal deficits by over $200 billion in the next 10 years. Instead of working to kill healthcare reform and defeat President Obama, Republicans should commit their best energies to working with Democrats to implement this historic law and create a healthier America." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.23.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Let's work together to find a better deal for Minnesota taxpayers and a real solution for Stillwater Residents of Stillwater deserve a replacement for the existing, outdated lift bridge over the St. Croix River. I support a fiscally-responsible alternative that complies with federal environmental law and meets the needs of Stillwater without creating new transportation problems for other Minnesota cities. I do not support the already-rejected $700 million mega-bridge proposal because it is unnecessarily expensive, undermines wild and scenic river protections and will adversely impact communities along Highway 36 in Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District. My primary responsibility is to represent the interests of residents in the Fourth Congressional District. There has been no attention to the traffic congestion that a new interstate-style bridge in Stillwater would add to the Highway 36 corridor, including Oakdale, Maplewood, Mahtomedi, Roseville and North St. Paul. If there's enough traffic projected to justify building a bridge that costs nearly three times as much as the new Interstate 35W Bridge in Minneapolis – which carries over 140,000 vehicles every day – then the communities along Highway 36 should expect to be overrun with thousands more semi-trucks, buses, and commuters. Expanding Highway 36 to accommodate an interstate-style bridge in Stillwater raises the true cost of the mega-bridge project close to a billion dollars. Today, the existing Stillwater lift bridge handles approximately 18,000 vehicles each day. In this fiscal environment it's hard to justify why a billion dollar bridge is necessary. Some elected officials from Minnesota and Wisconsin have given their support for the mega-bridge, yet these statements of support leave the key questions facing the proposal unanswered: How much – if any – of Wisconsin's share of this project is secured? How much money will it cost Minnesota taxpayers to expand Highway 36 between Stillwater and Minneapolis to accommodate the traffic from an Interstate-style bridge over the St. Croix? Will legislation pass Congress and be signed by President Obama to undo decades of federal protections for wild and scenic rivers? The St. Croix crossing at Stillwater is only one of many significant transportation problems across the state, if a more appropriately-scaled bridge were constructed over the St. Croix, what other Minnesota cities and counties are in line for transportation improvements? How many other structurally deficient or fracture-critical bridges in the state could be repaired and replaced? Even if it is unpopular to raise them, these questions are critical to the ultimate success of the bridge proposal now under debate. Champions of the proposal should be able to provide answers and explain why the current proposal – already rejected by the federal approval process – isn't simply the next in a long line of disappointments for Stillwater. Let me be clear: I support a new bridge for Stillwater. My experience – and plain Minnesota common sense – suggests the fastest path to a new bridge is the path of consensus and fiscal responsibility. The I-35W bridge over the Mississippi River in Minneapolis is proof that Minnesota can build a new bridge in record time when there's community consensus around a sensible plan. An affordable St. Croix bridge could be designed and constructed long before the mega-bridge proposal and offer Minnesota taxpayers much greater value. As discussions regarding an Interstate-style St. Croix bridge continue, I will work with local elected leaders in the Highway 36 corridor to ensure they receive clear, timely answers to questions about the potential for negative impacts to their communities. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees ####
03.22.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC – As U.S. armed forces work with international partners to establish and enforce a no-fly zone in Libya, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement."The brave men and women of America's armed forces are fulfilling critical missions around the world. Now, they are participating in a broad international coalition to protect the Libyan people from a murderous tyrant. While I support the current, limited U.S. mission in Libya, I have serious concerns about deepening U.S. military involvement. President Obama must consult with Congress before further expanding America's commitment in Libya."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
03.15.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govLatest weather service reports indicate record flooding possibleWashington, D.C. - Minnesota's entire Congressional delegation sent a bipartisan letter to Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Administrator Craig Fugate urging the agency to plan, prepare, and coordinate flood protection efforts in advance of the spring flooding. The delegation pushed FEMA to take immediate steps to facilitate a timely response to any damage once the water recedes. The National Weather Service recently forecast that regions across Minnesota face the strong possibility of major flood events and that the Red River Valley region is again facing the possibility of record floods."As Minnesota prepares for potential for devastating flooding across much of the state this spring, we ask for your immediate assistance to plan, prepare, and coordinate flood protection efforts to facilitate FEMA's timely response to any damage once the water recedes," wrote members in the letter.The letter highlighted the major flooding that occurred last year, which led President Obama to declare 31 counties in Minnesota as disaster areas.The full text of the letter is below:March 15, 2011The Honorable Craig FugateAdministratorFederal Emergency Management Agency500 C Street SWWashington, DC 20472Dear Administrator Fugate:As Minnesota prepares for the potential for devastating flooding across much of the state this spring, we ask for your immediate assistance to plan, prepare, and coordinate flood protection efforts to facilitate FEMA's timely response to any damage once the water recedes.Last year, above average rainfall, an untimely melting of snow, and a steady stream of severe weather resulted in the Red River, the Minnesota River, and the Mississippi River reaching major flood stage and devastating communities across Minnesota. As a result, President Obama declared 31 counties in Minnesota as disaster areas resulting from the spring 2010 floods. Communities across these river valleys launched an unprecedented effort to protect homes, businesses and schools from record flooding. Residents acted heroically to protect not only their own homes, but the homes of their neighbors and community landmarks.Unfortunately, the National Weather Service's most recent outlook for spring shows that regions across Minnesota are again facing the strong possibility of major flood events. Specifically, there is a 50 percent chance that the Red River of the North in Moorhead-Fargo will rise to 38.8 feet, and a 20 percent chance the River will rise to 41.9 feet, which is over one foot higher than the 2009 historical event. Further north, East Grand Forks-Grand Forks has a 50 percent chance that the Red River will rise to 50.4 feet, which is five feet higher than last year. Along the Mississippi River, the latest projects show at least a 50 percent likelihood that the water will rise significantly above last year's level in Aitkin, St. Cloud, and St. Paul. Communities along the Minnesota River are also preparing for rising water with a 50 percent chance that the water reaches nearly the same levels as last year near New Ulm, Mankato and Jordan. These same communities devastated by last year's flooding are now preparing for yet another flood event.Thank for your consideration of our request. These communities need and deserve the attention of our federal agencies.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriatons and Budget Committees###
03.10.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov McCollum: It's time to stand up, mobilize, and fight for workers' rights Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the Wisconsin State Senate Republican manipulation of procedure to ram through legislation attacking worker rights. "There can be no doubt that Republican politicians in Wisconsin and Washington are openly and viciously engaging in class warfare against working people. Last night's abusive action by the Republicans in the Wisconsin State Senate to strip the rights of workers to collectively bargain was a scandalous victory for union-busting politicians and their corporate sponsors. "While Democrats and a few responsible Republican policy makers continue to fight for workers' rights, it is now up to working people, their families, and every middle class American seeking a better future to organize and mobilize against these vicious and unwarranted attacks. "I am proud to join them and stand together to fight this Republican war against American working families." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.25.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov McCollum Responds to St. Croix County Board of Supervisors' Resolution, Calling on Congress to Pass Legislative Exemption Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) voiced her strong opposition to the St. Croix County Board of Supervisors' request that the Minnesota and Wisconsin Congressional delegations support legislation to exempt a proposed $700 million replacement for the existing Stillwater Lift Bridge. "With regard to exempting the St. Croix River Crossing Project from the Wild & Scenic Rivers Act, I will do everything in my power as a Member of Congress to defeat any federal legislation that lifts the protections from the Lower St. Croix National Scenic Riverway for a project of this magnitude," writes Congresswoman McCollum. "Frankly, the prospect of such legislation becoming law is negligible which makes such a strategy more of a political distraction than contributing to a real transportation solution. The text of the letter is included. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. #### February 25, 2011 St. Croix County Board of Supervisors St. Croix County Government Center 1101 Carmichael Road Hudson, WI 54016-7710 Dear St. Croix County Board of Supervisors: Your recent letter was received by my office informing me of the County Board's action to pass Resolution 1-2011 on January 4, 2011. Your resolution called on Congress to "exempt the St. Croix River Crossing Project from the Wild & Scenic Rivers Act so that construction of the proposed new bridge may begin." It is difficult to express how strongly I oppose the position taken by the St. Croix County Board. The proposed bridge across the St. Croix River - with an estimated cost of at least $700 million - is fiscally irresponsible, environmentally damaging, and will create a transportation mess for communities along Minnesota Highway 36 in the Congressional District I represent. It has been reported due to delays and inflation the bridge project's cost (in its current form) could exceed $1 billion. In recent days I have heard Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker tell the national news media innumerable times how "we're broke." How will the State of Wisconsin come up with its share of a $700 million to $1 billion project if it is "broke"? As you well know the State of Minnesota and the federal government are also facing significant fiscal challenges that make this type of excessive and irresponsible project both unwise and improbable. With regard to exempting the St. Croix River Crossing Project from the Wild & Scenic Rivers Act, I will do everything in my power as a Member of Congress to defeat any federal legislation that lifts the protections from the Lower St. Croix National Scenic Riverway for a project of this magnitude. Frankly, the prospect of such legislation becoming law is negligible which makes such a strategy more of a political distraction than contributing to a real transportation solution. There is no doubt that commuters in St. Croix County, WI and Washington County, MN face traffic congestion. The Stillwater Lift Bridge is no longer adequate. A new, appropriately scaled and designed bridge is needed to help relieve traffic congestion. I would propose that officials from Minnesota and Wisconsin work together to propose a new bridge project that is appropriate to the transportation needs of the area, cost-effective for taxpayers, and protects the environmental integrity of this unique shared scenic treasure for the citizens of Minnesota and Wisconsin. I look forward to working with you and other local, federal, state officials and other stakeholders from Minnesota and Wisconsin, along with the Obama Administration, to support alternative ideas for a bridge that will alleviate traffic, protect the river and be more cost effective than the rejected proposal. Sincerely, Betty McCollum Member of Congress cc: Governor Mark Dayton Senator Amy Klobuchar Senator Al Franken Representative Ron Kind Representative Michele Bachmann
02.22.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - In response to Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker's (R) proposal to end collective bargaining rights for public employees and the growing crowds of tens of thousands of pro-union protestors at the State Capitol in Madison, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement."In Wisconsin, workers and workers' rights are under attack by a union-busting governor. Citizens, union members, and Democratic legislators in Wisconsin are courageously demonstrating in defense of their workplace rights and protections. This is a battle that must be fought and won before this Republican union-busting strategy takes hold in other states. I am proud to strongly support Wisconsin workers as they fight for their rights."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.20.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov U.S. and Yemen Have National Security Interests in Defeating Al-Qaeda, Improving Life for Yemeni People Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) is currently in Sana'a, Yemen on official government business at the invitation of the Pentagon's National Defense University (NDU). She delivered a major policy address, regarding national security and the importance of the Government of Yemen to develop a whole-of-government national security strategy. She spoke to an audience of 800 Yemeni senior military and government officials. "Yes, Al-Qaeda must be defeated, but that is not enough," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Attacking poverty, improving the status of women, and attracting investments to create jobs must also be considered priorities that enhance your country's security and future." NDU's Near East South Asia Center for Strategic Studies is working in partnership with the Government of Yemen to develop a national security strategy. Yemen is an important foreign policy priority for the United States because of the presence of Al-Qaeda cells and the current turbulent political situation in the Middle East. In addition, Congresswoman McCollum will meet with Yemeni parliamentary leaders, journalists, women activists, women's health advocates, and World Bank officials. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.18.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Amendment to H.R. 1 to prohibit taxpayer funding of NASCAR sponsorship defeated; Intends to introduce legislation to end taxpayer funded motor racing Washington, DC -- An amendment by Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) to prohibit the Department of Defense from using tens of millions of taxpayer funds for NASCAR race car sponsorships failed by a vote of 148 to 281. McCollum called taxpayer funding for NASCAR race cars an "absurdity." McCollum's amendment was supported by the spending watchdog group Citizens Against Government Waste calling it spending that "Americans do not need and taxpayers simply cannot afford." The amendment was offered on H.R. 1, the appropriations bill to fund the federal government through September 30, 2011 in which the Republican House majority makes deep eliminates support for homeless veterans and makes deep cuts into federal investments in community health, women's health, and environmental protection. The Economic Policy Institute estimates that the deep cuts in H.R. 1 would result in 800,000 Americans losing their jobs. "This was a vote about priorities and making smart choices. With trillion dollar federal deficits this vote to protect taxpayer funded race cars shows that even a Tea Party Republican-led Congress is not serious about cutting wasteful spending. The American people need to know that a majority in Congress is willing to cut homeless veterans, community health centers, and family planning services, but spend millions of tax dollars for race cars," said McCollum Chief of Staff Bill Harper. While Rep. McCollum supports Department of Defense recruitment efforts at NASCAR events as well as other professional sporting events, she intends to introduce legislation to prohibit taxpayer funds from being used for sponsorship of race cars, dragsters, Indy cars, and motorcycle racing, as well as repeal the $45 million special tax earmark for NASCAR and race track owners included in the 2010 law that extended the Bush tax cuts and added $858 billion to the federal budget deficit.Congresswoman McCollum was unable to vote on her NASCAR amendment or comment on the outcome of the vote. She is traveling today on official government business to the Middle East honoring a longstanding obligation to the Pentagon's National Defense University to address a national security conference. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.16.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Reps. Ed Markey, Earl Blumenauer, Betty McCollum, Nita Lowey, Sam Farr, Paul Tonko, and Bill Owens Announce Efforts to Oppose Republican Efforts to De-Fund Corporation for Public Broadcasting Today, Reps. Ed Markey, Earl Blumenauer, Betty McCollum, Nita Lowey, Sam Farr, Paul Tonko, and Bill Owens announced efforts to oppose House Republican attempts to cut funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting in the Continuing Resolution, including an amendment to restore funding. Over 170 million Americans use public media every month. That is an extraordinary reach for a modest federal investment that supports 21,000 jobs in hundreds of communities, large and small. "Public broadcasting is an electronic oasis in what has been called the vast wasteland of commercial television," said Rep. Ed Markey. "That is why I am joining with other House Democrats to offer an amendment to fight the Republican's misguided elimination of funding for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB). CPB doesn't just stand for Corporation for Public Broadcasting. It also stands for: Children and Parents Benefit. We cannot allow Republicans to lavish hundreds of millions of dollars a year in tax breaks on Big Oil while leaving Arthur and his pals in the lurch. I will fight to protect one of our most precious landmarks on the entire media landscape." "Public broadcasting is one of the most basic ways that millions of Americans participate in our democracy," said Rep. Earl Blumenauer. "Not only do our local public broadcasting stations provide us with valuable information, but they also directly support 21,000 jobs in hundreds of communities across America. It would be shameful to deny these communities their voice and their jobs because of political games here in Washington. Rather than having a serious conversation about reducing our budget deficits, some in Congress are using this opportunity to act on their long-standing grudge against public broadcasting. The simple fact is that these attacks on public media are a dangerous political gimmick that achieves no meaningful deficit reduction." "An estimated 170 million Americans utilize public broadcasting everyday - including my family and me - because it provides unbiased, valuable information," said Rep. Betty McCollum. "Tea Party Republicans want to completely wipe out this critical resource and weaken our communities. I will fight to protect federal funding for it because I know Minnesotans care deeply for public broadcasting." "Instead of focusing on political attacks against public broadcasting, the Republican leadership should get to work on the issues that are important to the American people - creating jobs and getting our economy back on track," said Rep. Nita Lowey. "Bert & Ernie, Big Bird, Clifford, and other mainstays of public broadcasting have helped educate millions of American children. It is unacceptable that one of Republicans' first acts in the majority is handing them a pink slip." "Generations of Americans have been enriched through public broadcasting programming," said Rep. Sam Farr. "Just like parents and grandparents across the country, my daughter and granddaughter have grown up with educational programming like Sesame Street. Public radio has been a constant stream of information and source of morning conversation, from coffee houses to the halls of Congress. It is irresponsible for Republicans to now place a price tag on public broadcasting, without clearly having an idea of its real value. " "These proposed cuts for Public Broadcasting threaten to silence stations all over the country that provide alternative, community-based programming and a strong, independent journalistic voice," said Rep. Paul Tonko. "In addition, these cuts threaten jobs - 1,400 in New York State alone, along with $100 million dollars that is returned to our local communities. We can't afford this kind of reckless decision making, and I will stand with my colleagues and my local communities to fight these extreme and irresponsible measures." "Public broadcasting is extraordinarily important to many of my constituents," said Rep. Bill Owens. "It represents the best in family values and quality programming that you're going to see. If our colleagues on the other side of the aisle are concerned about the development of morals, integrity and education, then public education is a place they should support, not kill."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations Budget Committees # # #
02.16.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov U.S. Army Spends $7 million on NASCAR and $5 million sponsoring drag racing in 2011; Air Force and National Guard Spend Millions More Washington, DC - As Congress debates the Continuing Resolution (H.R. 1) to fund the federal government through September 30, 2011, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) introduced an amendment that cuts wasteful spending by ending taxpayer sponsorship of NASCAR race cars in the Department of Defense budget. Over the past decade, the Department of Defense has used hundreds of millions in taxpayer dollars to fund NASCAR and other motorsports sponsorships, claiming it helps recruiting efforts. "Taxpayer-funded NASCAR race cars are an absurdity at a time when the Republican-Tea Party is cutting federal support for homeless veterans, law enforcement officers, and firefighters. I know NASCAR fans are passionate and patriotic. This amendment gets the government out of NASCAR and gives them the opportunity to encourage the private sector to demonstrate its patriotism by donating a military sponsorship," Congresswoman McCollum said. "My Republican-Tea Party colleagues can support my amendment and stop wasting tax payer dollars or they can vote to keep wasting the American peoples' money." In 2008, the U.S. Navy ended its sponsorship of NASCAR. The Coast Guard and Marine Corps dropped NASCAR in 2006. At the time a Marine Corps spokesperson was quoted in Stars and Stripes as saying, "We don't have a tracking mechanism to track how many people contracted because of seeing that advertisement on the hood of a car." In 2011, the U.S. Army is sponsoring Ryan Newman's No. 39 Chevrolet Impala in the Spirit Cup Series at a cost to taxpayers of $7 million. The $7 million buys driver appearances and "U.S. Army" decals on the car. This year, the Army is spending an additional $5 million in taxpayer dollars for sponsorship of Tony Schumacher's Top Fuel Dragster in the National Hot Rod Association (NHRA) Full Throttle Drag Racing Series. The Army is the "official military partner of NHRA." NASCAR's record of receiving special interest, taxpayer-funded benefits is not limited to sponsorships. On December 15, 2010 the Washington Post reported, "Owners of NASCAR tracks and other motorsports facilities would benefit from two more years of a tax policy making it cheaper for them to fund capital projects. Estimated cost to taxpayers: $40 million." This special NASCAR tax break was included in the law that extended the Bush-era tax cuts and added nearly $900 billion to the federal budget deficit. The McCollum amendment to cut NASCAR funding is endorsed by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW). In a letter from Thomas Schatz, president of CCAGW, the McCollum NASCAR amendment would "eliminate profligate government-funded programs that Americans do not need and taxpayers simply cannot afford." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.14.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govRepublican Spending Plan Will Hurt Vulnerable VeteransWashington, DC - Warning of deep cuts to critical community services, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) responded to the Congressional Republicans' proposed budget for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2011. In their plan to reduce the federal budget deficit, House Republicans eliminate a unique $75 million program designed for helping thousands of America's veterans and their families.The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) reported on February 10, 2011 that stated, in 2009 "...roughly 136,000 veterans spent at least one night in a shelter during the year." The VA noted than on any given night in 2009 "...nearly 76,000 Veterans were homeless." The Republicans' tough stand against funding for assisting homeless veterans who have served our country is in sharp contrast to their generous efforts last December to increase the federal budget by providing tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires."The decision by House Republicans to eliminate important federal support for homeless veterans in favor of deficit reduction is irresponsible and mean-spirited," said Congresswoman McCollum. "It is a shameful commentary on the callous nature of policy making when tax cuts for billionaires are more important than the needs of Americans who served in our Armed Forces and now face hard times. Every veteran deserves the ongoing support of Congress and I will continue to fight for our veterans."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
02.11.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov U.S. House Republicans Effort to Blindly Slash Funding Will Deny 170 Million Americans Access to Public Media Washington, DC - As the U.S. House GOP-Tea Party continues its assault on essential government initiatives, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) vowed to fight a budget cut that would eliminate the Corporation for Public Broadcasting (CPB), which supports Minnesota Public Radio and Twin Cities Public Television. The latest threat comes from House Appropriations Committee Chairman Harold Rogers (R-KY). He proposes to terminate all federal funding to the CPB. "Republican-Tea Party Members in Congress are determined to eliminate all funding to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and deny 170 million Americans access to public media," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Why are my Republican-Tea Party colleagues determined to destroy access to unbiased information that keeps millions of Americans informed? Federal support for the Corporation for Public Broadcasting keeps our families educated and makes our communities stronger. I will fight against these cuts because Minnesota Public Radio and Twin Cities Public Television are critical community assets that deserve our support." Public broadcasting is considered by the public to be the second-best use of taxpayer dollars, outranked only by defense spending. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.###
01.31.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to the ongoing civil unrest in Egypt, a long-time U.S. ally. Throughout the past week, Egyptian citizens have taken to the streets, demanding that President Hosni Mubarak step down from power after more than three decades of rule."The street protests across Egypt are clear evidence of a people seeking the opportunity to live in a pluralistic, democratic society in which human rights are respected and economic opportunities are more widely available. Congress should support the process of peaceful political change in Egypt. Such an approach should include open, free elections, while maintaining our important bilateral relationships with Egypt's professional military, civil society, and business community."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ###
01.25.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to President Obama's State of the Union address. Throughout his speech, President Obama laid out his vision for job creation and economic recovery. "President Obama clearly outlined the challenges and opportunities we face as a country with job creation being our top priority, and I want help him succeed. "To create jobs we need to continue investing in education, innovation, research, and rebuilding our vital infrastructure that will strengthen our economy. The jobs of the future will require educated Americans who can successfully compete against China and the rest of the world. "President Obama is also right to focus on reducing the budget deficit. The best way to reduce the deficit is to grow the economy and create jobs. But Congress needs to make smart investments and smart cuts to programs when they don't work or there is waste - that includes cutting the waste out of the $700 billion annual defense budget. "The Republican budget plan cuts education, infrastructure, and research that will weaken our economy, kill jobs, and cede global leadership in the 21st Century to China, but they don't fix the budget problem. I want America to win the future, not turn global leadership over to China." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.21.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman McCollum to Serve on Interior-Environment and Military Construction-Veterans Affairs Subcommittees Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on her appointment to two House Appropriations Subcommittees for the 112th Congress. McCollum will serve on the Interior and Environment Subcommittee, which in FY2010 appropriated $32.2 billion for federal agencies including the Department of the Interior, Environmental Protection Agency, Indian Health Service, the National Endowment for the Arts, Smithsonian Institution, and the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. She will also serve on the Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Subcommittee which appropriated $182.5 billion in FY2010 for Department of Defense Military Construction, Department of Veterans Affairs, and the American Battle Monuments Commission. "As a member of the House Appropriations Committee I have an obligation to work to make smart and fiscally responsible investments that will strengthen our country and fulfill the promises we've made to our citizens. My subcommittee assignments in the 112th Congress will allow me the opportunity to work to protect our national parks, ensure Americans have clean air and water, and that quality health care for veterans and Native Americans is accessible. These are important issues for Minnesota and I am determined to keep the focus on ensuring the federal government meets its obligation to our families, our veterans, and our environment." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
01.19.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the House Republicans' legislation to set back the expanded health services to American Indians and Alaskan Natives. The reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA) was included in the health care reform law passed in 2010. Today, Republicans in the House will vote to repeal the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148) along with the reauthorization of IHCIA.The IHCIA maintains, expands, and modernizes the Indian Health Service (IHS), which provides comprehensive health services for American Indians and Alaska Natives. Since 1999, reauthorization legislation has been pending before Congress, making its enactment long overdue."The American Indian and Alaskan Native communities celebrated the expansion of health services when the reauthorization of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act became law last year. Tribal leaders from across the country worked tirelessly to pass this law. Today, Republicans in Congress are voting to repeal expanded health care for Native Americans, and they are abandoning the federal government's trust responsibility to provide these services to tribal members. Two million American Indians and Alaskan Natives would have vital health care services stripped by House Republicans."Defending patient protections for all Americans is a priority for me. I will continue to fight against all Republican efforts to repeal health care reform."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
01.12.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding Bert Blyleven, former pitcher for the Minnesota Twins, upon his election to the Major League Baseball Hall of Fame."I rise today to recognize former Minnesota Twins pitcher and 2011 inductee into the Major League Baseball Hall of Fame, Mr. Bert Blyleven."Mr. Blyleven pitched for twenty-two years at the major league level, including eleven seasons as a member of the Minnesota Twins. During his career, he amassed an astonishing 3,701 strikeouts and used his magnificent curveball to help pitch two teams to World Series victories, including the 1987 Minnesota Twins."Since 1996, Bert has been a proud member of the television broadcasting team for the Minnesota Twins and has delighted hometown fans with his color commentary."Mr. Blyleven is a mainstay of the Minnesota sports community and his election to the hall of fame is long overdue. He is hereby circled."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
01.08.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to the shooting of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords (D-AZ)."The shooting today in Tucson of Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, at least one member of her staff, and a number of citizens is a monstrous act of violence that is senseless and tragic. I am praying for Congresswoman Giffords, her staff members, all the victims of this attack, and their families." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
01.07.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) entered the following statement into the Congressional Record, recognizing the death of Hmong military leader General Vang Pao."I rise today to honor the life, service and sacrifice of General Vang Pao, who passed away yesterday evening in Clovis, California. General Vang Pao was a historic Hmong military leader who led his people against communist forces during a turbulent time in Laos from 1961 to 1975. In this country, General Vang Pao served as a civilian leader who continued to lead the Hmong-American community for nearly four decades."My heart-felt sympathy goes out to General Vang Pao's family and to all the Hmong- American families in Minnesota and across the U.S. Over the years, I had the honor of joining General Vang Pao at many events such as: the Hmong American New Year celebrations and the July Soccer Festival celebrations in St. Paul, as he had always come to the Twin Cities to join the Hmong community for those events. Most recently, I had the great honor of joining him for the grand opening celebrations of the Hmong Village Center on the Eastside of St. Paul on October 30, 2010. Although frail from his failing health and sitting in his chair, the General was in good spirit and spoke eloquently to a large gathering crowd at the celebrations. Sadly, this was the last time I saw him."General Vang Pao's influence has touched the Hmong-American community deeply, and I know the community will continue to share and cherish the memories of his legacy for future generations to come. In honor of Gen. Vang Pao's lifetime of service to his people and loyalty to the U.S., I am pleased to submit this statement for the Congressional Record."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
01.05.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govExpansion Made Possible by Federal Health Care Reform Law with No Additional Cost to MinnesotaWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) applauds the expansion of Medicaid health care benefits to 95,000 low-income Minnesotans. Governor Mark Dayton signed two executive orders today that will result in an estimated $1.2 billion in federal funding for Minnesota health care providers, clinics, and hospitals. The "early expansion" of Medicaid for the poor is a direct outcome of the new federal health care reform law passed by Congress in 2010.Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement."Expanding Medicaid health benefits to our state's most vulnerable citizens means more efficient health care delivery and cost savings to Minnesota taxpayers. I applaud Governor Dayton for his commitment to meet the health needs of all our citizens while using available federal dollars to strengthen Minnesota's health system."While opponents of health care reform - in Washington and Minnesota - attempt to deny quality health care to the American people, I will continue to fight to make health care a right for all Americans."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
01.03.2011	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov*** MEDIA ADVISORY ***Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), State Representative Leon Lillie (DFL-District 55A), State Representative Nora Slawik (DFL-District 55B), and State Senator Chuck Wiger (DFL-District 55) will host a public town hall meeting. These government officials will give an update on current issues affecting Minnesotans on state and federal levels. They will also take questions from event attendees.WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum, Fourth Congressional DistrictState Representative Leon Lillie, District 55AState Representative Nora Slawik, District 55BState Senator Chuck Wiger, District 55WHEN: Saturday, February 5, 9:30-10:30 AMWHERE: Maplewood City Hall Council Chambers, 1830 County Road B East, Maplewood, MN 55119Media outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Maria Reppas at maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
12.29.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Saint Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) made the following statement in response to the release of the 2010 Census population data to be used reapportion Congressional districts leading up to the 2012 election cycle. The Census Bureau confirmed that Minnesota will maintain eight Congressional districts for the next decade."Due to the tremendous efforts of our citizens and dedicated census workers to ensure every Minnesotan was counted, Minnesota has succeeded in keeping eight Congressional representatives in Washington for the next decade. The loss of a seat would have diminished our state's political power so this outcome is a real success.""Ramsey County and the City of Saint Paul have historically anchored the Fourth District. Communities in northern Dakota County have traditionally been an important part of the district because of economic and geopolitical relationships. The future Fourth District will need to add population, but its boundaries should continue to keep its unique East Metro character."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.17.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govMinutes Before Vote, Republican Leadership Circulated Misinformation Bill Contained AbortionWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the House of Representatives' failure to pass the International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act (S. 987).Shortly before the vote, House Republican leadership encouraged its members to vote against the legislation. In an email alert, Republicans stated that S. 987 contained abortion provisions, which is completely untrue. The email also said that this legislation provided insufficient financial oversight. This statement is false as well.There were Republicans who understood the importance of S. 987. They supported this legislation and fought to protect the rights of young girls.Republicans who voted for S. 987 include: Anders Crenshaw (FL), Mike Castle (DE), Charlie Dent (PA), Vernon Ehlers (MI), Rodney Frelinghuysen (NJ), Tom Latham (IA), Steven LaTourette (OH), Erik Paulsen (MN), Aaron Shock (IL), Jim Sensenbrenner (WI), Michael Simpson (ID), and Patrick Tiberi (OH).Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement."Child marriage is a global challenge that knows no politics. Every day, it brutally destroys millions of young girls' lives. If nothing is done, this barbaric practice will force millions more girls into a life of slavery, sex abuse, domestic violence, and servitude."Senate Democrats and Republicans didn't play partisan politics in this vote; they unanimously recognized that the United States can and should become a leader in the fight against child marriage. Had this legislation contained abortion provisions or authorized new spending, it never would have unanimously passed the Senate."I thank the 229 Democrats who voted for this bill as well as the 12 Republicans. I am especially grateful for Senators Durbin, Brownback, Kerry, Lugar, and Snowe who worked to get this bipartisan agreement passed."The International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act failed last night not because of the issue, but because a handful of Republicans chose partisan politics over the basic human rights of young girls. I am truly disappointed in this result, but I'm not giving up on these children."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
12.17.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Deal Gives Wealthiest Americans Lucrative Tax Breaks, Adds $858 Billion to Deficit Washington, DC - Last night, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) voted against the Senate amendment to H.R. 4853. This legislation will add $858 billion to the national debt for the next two years. The measure passed by a vote of 277 to 148. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement. "Last night, I voted against a fiscally irresponsible $858 billion tax cut package. Every penny of this budget-busting bill will be borrowed - much of it from China - and the burden placed on the backs of our children and grandchildren. "To keep the economic recovery on track and meet the needs of struggling American families, I do support extending middle class tax cuts and unemployment insurance. But Republicans in Congress held these priorities hostage until millionaires and billionaires were guaranteed tax cuts that they don't need. Tax breaks for the wealthy are a luxury Americans can't afford. This is simply wrong. With unemployment nearly at 10 percent, Members of Congress should be focused on getting all of America back to work, not padding the trust funds for a precious few. "The tax package the House voted on last night was even worse than the one negotiated by the President and Republicans in Congress. The Senate got into the holiday spirit and sent the House a Christmas tree bill loaded down with special interest "sweeteners." Why will NASCAR owners open their stockings this year to find a $40 million tax break from the American people? Why are Hollywood producers getting a $162 million in special breaks paid for by the American people? Why do rum makers in Puerto Rico get $235 million? Middle class Americans shouldn't be forced to use the nation's credit card so the special interests receive everything on their wish lists. "America needs honest and responsible policymaking. The federal budget is in crisis and tough decisions are necessary. This tax cut package makes no tough decisions. Instead, kicks the hard choices down the road and makes solving America's fiscal crisis much harder." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.16.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman McCollum Announces Federal Commitment to a Dakota County Transportation PriorityWashington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) announced the Robert Street Transit Corridor will receive a $1.18 million federal grant from the federal Department of Transportation. Funds will go to the Dakota County Railroad Authority to support the evaluation of transit alternatives between the Union Depot in downtown St. Paul and Rosemont. This project competed with transit corridors all across the country to secure federal funds."I am a long-time supporter of expanding transit options for the residents and businesses along the Robert Street corridor. Federal partnership in this effort is going to help communities in Dakota County move ahead with their vision," said Congresswoman McCollum. "The Robert Street corridor is an important part of a comprehensive, multi-modal transportation system in the Twin Cities."The Robert Street Corridor connects Rosemount to downtown St. Paul and would serve the communities of West St. Paul, South St. Paul, Mendota Heights, and Inver Grove Heights. Currently, an estimated 129,000 vehicles cross the Mississippi River at the Lafayette and Robert Street Bridges every weekday. Over the next two decades, the population in the corridor is forecast to grow by 30 percent and employment by approximately 40 percent.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
12.15.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govH.R. 2103 Provides Strategy for U.S. Government to Reduce World's Number of Child BridesWashington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) urged all Members to pass the International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act (H.R. 2103). Congresswoman McCollum is the sponsor of the companion child marriage prevention legislation in the U.S. House (H.R. 2103). This legislation proposes a multi-year strategy for the U.S. government to address the prevalence of child marriage in the developing world and promote the empowerment of young girls. H.R. 2103 fights child marriage by advocating for educational, health, economic, social, and legal programs for young girls.The House's current consideration of H.R. 2103 comes immediately after the Senate unanimously passed the bill on December 1, 2010.The International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act has already received nationwide support from organizations and individuals, including humanitarian Archbishop Desmond Tutu.Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives."Every year, in the world's poorest countries, millions of girls are forced into marriage. Girls - as young as age 8, but often 13, 14, 15 years old - are sold by impoverished parents to settle debts or they are given away to become wives of men who are years or even decades older."For a young girl - a child - to be forced to marry an adult man can only be described as a life of slavery, child molestation, and servitude. This is not marriage. It is a violation of the most basic human rights of a child."On the floor today is H.R. 2103 - the International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act - a bill that was passed unanimously in the U.S. Senate. Let me repeat, this bill passed unanimously - every Republican and every Democrat - in the Senate."I want to commend Senators Richard Durban and Olympia Snowe, along with the other bipartisan co-sponsors, for their tremendous efforts to protect vulnerable girls."It is my honor to be the sponsor of the companion bill in the House. And, I want to thank my Republican colleagues, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. LaTourette, Mr. Schock, and Mr. Latham for their bipartisan support for ending child marriage."According to UNICEF child marriage is ‘the most prevalent form of sexual abuse and exploitation of girls.' One in seven girls in the developing world is forced into married before age 15 - million of girls every year."A thirteen year old girl that is forced into marriage will not go to school. She is almost guaranteed to be a victim of domestic violence and condemned to a lifetime of poverty. She is more likely to die or be disabled in childbirth. And, because she is a child, her infant is more likely to die."HIV infection, maternal death, child death, gender based violence, and extreme poverty are all deadly obstacles to development that destroy families, weaken communities, and destabilize countries. Child marriage contributes to all of these destructive problems."The photo I have with me was taken by a brilliant photojournalist - Stephanie Sinclair - who documented child marriage in Afghanistan. The eleven-year old girl in this photo - Ghulam - is not seated with her grandfather. The man next to this child is her husband-to-be. This little girl's father gave Ghulam to be married because he is too poor to care for her. Ghulam's value to her husband comes from her ability to work in the fields, care for animals, and because she's a virgin."In this country, a man treating an eleven year old as his wife would be imprisoned as a sexual predator, a pedophile. In Afghanistan an eleven year old's abuser is her husband. It doesn't matter where in this world, an 11 year old girl should never be anyone's wife."Today we have an opportunity to put the lives of vulnerable girls ahead of the all too common partisan political games that take place in this House. Today we can show our constituents and the world that the life of every girl has value and limitless potential if they can grow up free from exploitation."It is my firm belief that girls - girls everywhere - in America, in Ethiopia, or in Afghanistan deserve the right to enter adulthood with the freedom to decide for themselves who their husbands will be. A girl is not a commodity to be traded. She is a precious member of a community who needs to be valued and allowed to grow into adulthood."This Congress and the American people spend billions of tax payer dollars on foreign assistance. The U.S. has a direct interest and an opportunity to ensure that girls in the developing world can grow up to be healthy, productive, contributing members of their communities and their countries."Not only do girls deserve the right to choose their future husband, they deserve the opportunity to get an education and contribute their skills and talents to develop their countries."This legislation supports and expands the successful models already in place for promoting girls education, protecting the human rights of girls, and eliminating the practice of child marriage. This bill authorizes existing State Department funds to be used to implement a strategy to protect girls from forced marriage. This bill does not spend one additional dollar that is not already appropriated by Congress for health, education, democracy, or other development activities."Earlier this week I was honored to receive a letter from Archbishop Desmond Tutu of South Africa urging House passage of H.R. 2103."Archbishop Tutu's letter said, ‘Child marriage is a harmful practice that treats young girls as property, stops their education and robs them of their childhood and dignity.'"The Archbishop goes on to write, ‘Thank you for your attention and dedication to passing this bill before Congress adjourns. By doing so, you may help make the difference between lives of opportunity or enslavement for millions of girls.'"Child marriage is sanctioned sexual abuse that destroys girls' lives. The choice before this Congress is to do nothing as young girls, children, continue to be enslaved, raped, and condemned to a life of abuse and poverty. Or, we can join the U.S. Senate and vote to pass H.R. 2103 and have the United States stand with millions of girls - today and tomorrow - who seek nothing more than the freedom, the opportunity, and the time be allowed to be children and grow into adulthood without being forced into marriage."I thank Chairman Berman for his support, and I urge my all my colleagues to vote to protect millions of girls from sexual abuse."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.08.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman Pledges to Work with New GovernorWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding Minnesota gubernatorial candidate Mark Dayton's win. After several weeks of recounts, GOP gubernatorial candidate State Rep. Tom Emmer conceded the race today. Governor-elect Mark Dayton will be sworn in January 3, 2011."I congratulate Governor-elect Mark Dayton on his hard-earned victory. Minnesotans have waited a long time for this result, and State Rep. Emmer's concession allows our state to move forward and address the real needs facing families today. Tackling economic challenges and severe budget shortfalls requires all partners at the table, including Mark Dayton as our next governor."Dayton's nearly 9,000 vote margin has remained consistent since election day. I commend Secretary of State Mark Ritchie and all statewide election officials for their fairness, diligence, and professionalism throughout this transparent process."We have a job to do - to work for the people of Minnesota - and I look forward to working with Governor-elect Mark Dayton to get our state's priorities back on track."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.###
12.07.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman Cites Fiscal Irresponsibility, Excessive Tax Breaks for America's Wealthiest Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to the tax cut deal made yesterday by President Obama and Congressional Republicans. The tax cut compromise granted concessions to America's wealthiest individuals. The final agreement will add $900 billion to the federal deficit over the next two years. "This is a deal that will continue to explode the deficit while the rich get richer and struggling middle class families get crumbs. The Republicans successfully held unemployed Americans hostage to give even more tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires. This plan is irresponsible, and I will oppose it." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.03.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov"It's time to put politics aside and allow Minnesotans to move forward"Washington, DC - As the state budget forecast revealed a record $6.2 billion deficit, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) today called on Republican candidate for Governor Tom Emmer to put the interests of Minnesota taxpayers ahead of his partisan interests and end his challenge to the results of the 2010 election."Minnesota families are hurting and our state and federal budgets are in crisis," said Congresswoman McCollum. "I appeal to Tom Emmer's commitment to public service and urge him and his Republican colleagues to stop wasting tax dollars on what is clearly a futile, if not frivolous attempt to delay the inevitable results of this election. It's time to put politics aside and allow Minnesotans to move forward."Senator Dayton's nearly 9,000 vote lead is 30 times larger than Senator Franken's 2008 margin of victory. More than 93% of Minnesota's votes have been recounted at taxpayer expense and the lead remains so large, that it's statistically impossible for Tom Emmer to come close to closing the gap in votes.While figures on cost of the 2010 recount are not yet available, a Pew study of the 2008 Minnesota senate recount estimates that the state's 87 counties spent, on average, more than 15 cents per ballot on the manual recount, with total costs surpassing $460,000.Following the 2008 Minnesota recount, state election reforms passed into law made frivolous ballot challenges illegal. Ramsey County election manager Joe Mansky recently stated in the Star Tribune that he estimates only about 10 percent of all the early challenges made by Emmer representatives in Ramsey County are solid, another third could be legitimately argued in front of the Canvassing Board and the rest will almost certainly be ruled out of by the board."These frivolous GOP challenges will not change the outcome of this election," said McCollum. "Republicans are making a mockery of our electoral system at taxpayer expense - a particular burden on our counties and local officials at a time when they are being forced to make painful cuts that will be felt by families and communities across Minnesota.""Moving Minnesota and our nation forward in the face of economic challenges and severe budget shortfalls requires all partners at the table, including our next governor, to meet the challenges facing Minnesota families.""We have a job to do - to work for the people of Minnesota - and I look forward to working with Mark Dayton as our next governor," said McCollum.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees####
12.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, D.C. - Today, congressional champions, Gwich'in Nation representatives and conservation groups joined together in front of the U.S. Capitol to honor the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, our nation's greatest wilderness icon, while calling for its lasting protection. Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA) along with Rep. RaÃºl Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA), Rep. Jay Inslee (D-WA), Rep. Dennis Kucinich (D-OH) and Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), honored the Arctic Refuge and it roles in our natural heritage while sharing their connections to the Arctic Refuge and its Coastal Plain. Representatives from the Gwich'in Nation, who call the Arctic Refuge "the sacred place where life begins," and national conservation groups, joined the members of Congress to celebrate the Arctic Refuge's 50th anniversary and to echo the call for lasting protections. Photos from the event are available.Quotes from Speakers:"If we don't enact strong protections like monument status, oil companies and their allies in Congress will continue to push for the monumentally short-sighted plan to drill one of our last pristine wild places. Now is the time to create a refuge for the American people from hundreds of billions of dollars we spend every year on foreign oil. Now is the time to create a refuge from the fossil fuel policies that have devastated the economy of the Gulf. Now is the time to protect the Refuge."- Representative Edward Markey (D-MA)"Now is the perfect moment to grant this irreplaceable landscape the permanent protection it has always deserved. As things stand, the Refuge can be opened to oil drilling any time Congress says so, and we all know this unique piece of our country deserves more than that. The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is not just home to one of the greatest animal migrations on Earth, and is not just sacred to the Gwich'in Nation - it stands as a special part of America's frontier legacy. We need to consider the profound debt we owe to posterity before we make any decisions we'd regret, and drilling for oil in this beautiful landscape ranks very near the top of that list. That's why the president should recognize the Refuge's special place in American and natural history and name it a national monument without delay."- Representative RaÃºl M. Grijalva (D-AZ)"We Minnesotans hold a special place in our hearts for the Arctic. In 2001, I had the wonderful opportunity to marvel at the beauty of this unique wilderness up close. On this 50th anniversary of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, we must redouble our efforts to permanently protect this precious area. The tragedy of the BP oil spill in the Gulf demonstrates why no drilling should ever take place in this fragile ecosystem. We must be committed to a clean energy future that allows our children and future generations to continue enjoying this national treasure."- Representative Betty McCollum (D-MN)"We stand here today to recognize those who have successfully defended the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for the last 50 years. They have fought hard to keep this national treasure pristine and wild. But it is not safe. As long as our addiction to oil continues, it will remain a target for those who want to spoil it for a small petroleum fix. However, I am confident that American innovation will break our oil addiction by developing new, clean sources of energy, and provide lasting protection for this place."- Representative Jay Inslee (D-WA)"I have been privileged to have had the opportunity to visit the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and see first-hand the beauty of this national treasure. In honor of its 50th anniversary, it is my hope that President Obama will take action to permanently protect the Arctic Refuge from the relentless attacks of Big Oil to open it up to drilling and put this delicate ecosystem at risk,"- Representative Lois Capps (D-CA)"The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is a sacred land which must be protected. It's health is directly tied to the health of those who depend on it every day like the Gwich'in. We must protect the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge from those who would sacrifice it for an archaic and greedy energy policy."- Representative Dennis Kucinich (D-OH)"The caribou are not just what we eat, but who we are. They are in our dances, stories, songs and the whole way we see the world. Caribou are how we get from one year to the other."- Sarah James, Gwich'in Steering Committee"There are some places in this country that define what it means to be American; the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is one of those places. Fifty years ago, our parents' and grandparents' generation looked out across this vast wilderness and decided to set it aside as a protected space for the abundant wildlife that depends on it. Now is the time for us to ensure that this American icon can be celebrated for the next 50 years and beyond, by giving it the strongest protections possible."- Tom Campion, Board Chair, Alaska Wilderness League"In the decades since Alaska's Arctic Refuge was created, its wildlife have narrowly escaped the oil industry's relentless efforts to drill. Now is our chance to keep the oil industry from destroying the Refuge forever."- Michael Brune, Executive Director, Sierra Club"The Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is under constant threat from oil and gas development," "The Gwich'in people have kept this land unspoiled for generations - and along with champions like Chairman Markey and Senators Mark and Tom Udall, we've been able to protect this pristine area for 50 years. But as a nation, if we cannot protect this spectacular place from drilling, what can we protect? All of this sanctuary should be designated as wilderness before it is too late."- William H. Meadows, President, The Wilderness SocietyCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committee####
12.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) today praised the passage of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act (S. 3307) in the House of Representatives. The bill contains the most significant improvements to the child nutrition programs in over 30 years, and it includes critical provisions from Congresswoman McCollum's National Farm to School Act (H.R. 5456)."As a former teacher, I know that hungry students cannot fulfill their potential in the classroom. Grumbling stomachs distract them from their schoolwork," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Over 600,000 Minnesota children benefit from the National School Lunch program. With this difficult economy putting more people into poverty, this program provides a lifeline for families struggling to feed their children. The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act will improve the quality of meals served in schools, allow for easier determination of eligibility, and finally update nutrition standards so that our children get well-balanced diets."According to the Minnesota Department of Education, there has been an 8.5 percent increase in the number of students on free and reduced lunch since 2009. In St. Paul, over 900 additional students qualified for free and reduced lunch this year due to the growing number of families facing economic hardship.Section 243 of the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act also includes language from Congresswoman McCollum's bill to provide grants up to $100,000 for school districts to implement farm to school programs. Roughly 100 Minnesota school districts now have programs that purchase fresh produce from local farmers - more than triple the number from 2008. This legislation also provides $40 million in funding for farm to school efforts."Such strong support for farm-to-school programs in the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act will provide a win-win for our children and Minnesota farmers," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Farmers are able to access local markets and keep more local food dollars here at home while giving schoolchildren more nutritious food in their lunches. We will now be able to expand our Minnesota model to be replicated nationwide thanks to this bill."S. 3307 will further strengthen the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) and Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP). Currently, over 137,000 Minnesota children receive WIC benefits and over 93,000 Minnesota children receive meals through the CACFP. The Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act allows WIC providers to be able to certify children with less paperwork and expands eligibility for the CACFP program to allow more children to be able to obtain free or reduced price meals at day care and afterschool programs.The bill was finally passed after Republicans used a procedural move yesterday to obstruct passage."I am pleased we were able to pass this critical legislation for our nation's children and overcome the political stunts by Republicans wanting to kill the bill," said Congresswoman McCollum.The legislation now awaits President Obama's signature.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.###Endrosement Quotes:Minnesota organizations praise Congresswoman McCollum Farm-to-School provisions: "St. Paul Public Schools is pleased that the House has passed the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act. This legislation provides for an additional six cents per lunch for students. This small amount will have a significant impact because it will provide more fresh fruits, vegetables and whole grains for the approximate 30,000 students that eat lunch with us each day in St. Paul. It is another step forward in our efforts to raise healthy children and reverse the childhood obesity crisis in this country. In addition, St. Paul has been a national leader in implementing farm-to-school programs that allow our children to eat Minnesota apples, wild rice and bison. During the first six weeks of the 2009-2010 school year alone, St. Paul Public Schools purchased 110,000 pounds of locally grown produce, primarily from local farms. We are fortunate to have legislators like Rep. Betty McCollum, who understand that there is a critical link between children's health and educational achievement." - Jean Ronnei, Saint Paul Public Schools, Director, Nutrition & Custodial Services"Farm-to-school is the way of the future and Minnesota is at the forefront of this movement. These programs are one of the best ways to get fresh, healthy food to kids, while teaching them about food and nutrition. With a greater investment in Farm to School, we can provide even more opportunities for local farmers and put kids on a lifelong path to healthy eating. We thank Rep. Betty McCollum for introducing the National Farm-to-School Act and applaud its inclusion in the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act."- JoAnne Berkenkamp, Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy, Local Food Program Director "Thankfully Congress passed the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act which, among other things, includes a Farm-to-School program which aims to help leverage local food grown by local farmers into local schools. Farm-to-school is the seed money to help establish the working connections between farmers and schools. Many farmers would like to take advantage of new markets like schools but the infrastructure just hasn't been there --- farm-to-school begins to change that dynamic. A big thanks to Rep. Betty McCollum for her leadership over the past year in ensuring farm-to-school ended up in the final bill."-Ted Winter, Land Stewardship Project, Fulda area farmer and LSP Policy Committee member
12.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govLegislators push Defense Secretary Gates to keep Fairview Health Services serving Minnesota veteransWashington, D.C. - U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and the Minnesota Congressional Delegation today urged Department of Defense Secretary Robert Gates to help Fairview Health Services continue to provide health care to more than 1,200 Minnesota veterans through the cost-effective TRICARE program. Four clinics in the Fairview and Columbia Park area may need to leave the TRICARE network because Fairview Health Services is unable to receive "Gold Status" for all of their participating clinics. Clinics that have "Gold Status" are able to refer patients among themselves - a benefit that cuts down on cost and paperwork for administrators, physicians, and patients."In light of these events, we are hoping that you can clarify the reason why Fairview Health Services was denied full acceptance into the TRICARE Gold Status program. Veterans who have served our country honorably deserve continued, high quality care at these clinics, and we look forward to working with you to address this matter," the legislators said in the letter.The four clinics that Fairview Health Services is considering dropping from TRICARE have participated in the program for several years.The full text of the letter is below:December 2, 2010The Honorable Robert GatesSecretary of DefenseDepartment of DefenseWashington, D.C. 20301Dear Secretary Gates:We write to request your assistance on behalf of active and retired military personnel and their families who are served by Minnesota's Fairview Health Services. Fairview Health Services has recently indicated its intention to terminate its contract with TRICARE for the Fairview Columbia Park group of clinics. This decision is likely to negatively impact the health security of more than 1,200 veterans in our region.According to Fairview Health Systems, the four clinics in the Fairview Columbia Park group have participated for several years in the TRICARE Gold Status program. Clinics that participate in the program are able to refer patients amongst themselves, a benefit which cuts down on cost and paperwork for administrators, physicians and patients. In the hope of achieving ease of referrals between all of its clinics, Fairview Health Services has twice sought "Gold Status" for the other clinics in its network. Both times, and as recently as this summer, the Department of Defense has denied their request. It is our understanding that Fairview Health Systems was provided no explanation for why these decisions were made.This has made it difficult for Fairview Health Services to allow these clinics alone to continue participating in the TRICARE Gold Status program. As a result, Fairview Health Services has been forced to make the decision to withdraw entirely from the TRICARE network.In light of these events, we are hoping that you can clarify the reason why Fairview Health Services was denied full acceptance into the TRICARE Gold Status program. Veterans who have served our country honorably deserve continued, high quality care at these clinics, and we look forward to working with you to address this matter. Thank you for your consideration of this issue.Sincerely,U.S. Senator Amy KlobucharU.S. Senator Al FrankenU.S. Representative Jim OberstarU.S. Representative Collin PetersonU.S. Representative Betty McCollumU.S. Representative John KlineU.S. Representative Michele BachmannU.S. Representative Keith EllisonU.S. Representative Tim WalzU.S. Representative Erik PaulsenCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees####
12.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding her "yea" vote to censure Rep. Charlie Rangel (NY-15). Last month, the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct found Mr. Rangel guilty on 11 counts of ethics violations."This a sad day for the U.S. House of Representatives because of a good man with a long history of heroic public service was punished by his peers for reckless conduct that reflected poorly on our institution. Every Member of Congress has an obligation to uphold the integrity of this legislative body, and today's vote demonstrated a collective commitment to maintain the integrity of the U.S. House."
12.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov S.987/H.R.2103 Provides A Strategy to Fight Child Marriage in Developing CountriesWashington, DC - Last night, the U.S. Senate unanimously passed the International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act (S.987/H.R.2103), which was originally introduced by Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04). This legislation calls for the United States government to develop a multiyear strategy to address the prevalence of child marriage in the developing world."I want to commend Senator Richard Durbin and every Democratic and Republican member of the U.S. Senate for acting to end child marriage. It is now up to my colleagues in the U.S. House to immediately act to make sure every girl has the opportunity to grow up without the fear of being forced into marriage. Millions of girls around the world have been forced into marriages that destroy their childhood, health and future. It is time for child marriage to end," McCollum said.Child marriage remains a common traditional practice across the globe today, specifically in developing countries. An estimated 60 million girls under the age of 18 are forced into marriages with men twice their age and sometimes older. The practice occurs in countries, including Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Chad, and Yemen.Congresswoman McCollum introduced H.R. 2103 on April 27, 2009 in recognition that child marriage is a human rights violation that undermines U.S. investments in foreign assistance to improve the education, health and economic status of women and girls. This legislation proposes a comprehensive strategy for the United States to help prevent child marriage and promote the empowerment of girls everywhere.A bipartisan group of 109 Members of the U.S. House have co-sponsored the International Protecting Girls by Preventing Child Marriage Act.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
12.01.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, honoring World AIDS Day. According to UNAIDS, over 33 million people worldwide lived with HIV in 2009. Although the medical community has made strides in curbing the effects of HIV/AIDS, the virus is still commonplace in the developing world and too many people still do not get adequate treatment."World AIDS Day is an opportunity to recognize the millions of people living with HIV/AIDS and remember the millions who have died. As we look forward, it is critical to remain focused on preventing HIV infection and expanding access to life-saving treatment. Whether it is in a developing country or Minnesota we must remain committed to comprehensive prevention strategies to reduce infection rates while making treatment available."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
11.30.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govResolution Honors Those Who Have Died of Mesothelioma and Aims to Educate Americans on Causes of the DiseaseWashington, DC - Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed a resolution introduced by Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), supporting the goals and ideals of National Mesothelioma Awareness Day (H.Res.771). The final vote was 363 - 0.Mesothelioma is caused by exposure to asbestos, and is frequently found in an affected person's chest, lungs, or abdomen. Dedicating a day to this preventable disease will help increase Americans' awareness of Mesothelioma so they can take action to minimize exposure to asbestos.Although exposure to asbestos is highly dangerous, it can still be found in many everyday products, such as gaskets, brakepads, and roofing materials. While at work, over one million American workers face significant exposure to asbestos.Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement in support of H.Res.771."Mesothelioma is an asbestos-linked cancer most often found in a person's chest, lungs, or abdomen. More than a million Americans are exposed to dangerous levels of asbestos while on the job, including military personnel, firefighters, and construction workers. In fact, workers in our own Capitol complex are suffering from asbestos exposure. Many of these individuals are unaware of the risk at the time."The fight against Mesothelioma is a personal issue for me. I know many people that have been affected as well as members of my family and friends. In 2000, my friend and predecessor Congressman Bruce Vento was diagnosed with Pleural Mesothelioma. The news was devastating for his family, personal friends, and all of us in Minnesota that knew him. Bruce represented Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District from 1977-2000. During his service in Congress, he was tireless advocate on behalf of his constituents and a national champion for environmental protection and the rights of the homeless."I thank all of my Congressional colleagues for their support of this bipartisan resolution."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
11.30.2010	Contact: Maja Belamaric (703) 879-3822 mbelamaric@ ' ); document.write( addy30049 ); document.write( '<\/a>' ); //--> curemeso.orgcuremeso.org On Monday, November 29, 2010, the House of Representatives passed H. Res. 771 designating September 26th as National Mesothelioma Awareness DayWASHINGTON, DC. November 30 - Today, the Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation (Meso Foundation) proudly announced the passage of H. Res. 771, a resolution designating September 26th as National Mesothelioma Awareness Day. The bill, which was introduced in the House of Representatives by Congresswoman Betty McCollum of Minnesota, urges the President to call on the people of the United States, federal departments and agencies, states, localities, organizations, and media to annually observe a National Mesothelioma Awareness day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.Raising awareness of mesothelioma is a personal issue for Congresswoman Betty McCollum. "In 2000, my friend and predecessor Congressman Bruce Vento was diagnosed with pleural mesothelioma. Despite decades of warnings about the dangers of asbestos, too many Americans are still unaware of the devastating nature of this disease", says Rep. McCollum. Congressman Bruce Vento, a former member of the Board of Directors of the Meso Foundation, died in 2000, nine months following diagnosis.Mesothelioma Awareness Day began five years ago when a small group of Meso Foundation volunteers joined together to broaden awareness of this dreadful disease. Since then, every September 26th, hundreds of volunteers across the nation request that their city and state governments establish local proclamations of Mesothelioma Awareness Day. The national designation of this important day in the House of Representatives is the counterpart of the Senate resolution (S. Res. 288) which was introduced by Senator Patty Murray of Washington and that passed in 2009."The passage of H. Res. 771 is an important milestone in our fight to find better treatments and a cure. Acknowledgement of mesothelioma on a national level is crucial in raising awareness and galvanizing the resources required to end the tragedy of mesothelioma", says Kathy Wiedemer, Executive Director of the Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation.Mesothelioma is a malignant tumor of the lining of the lung, abdomen, or heart known to be caused by exposure to asbestos. Medical experts consider it one of the most aggressive and deadly of all cancers. Approximately 3,000 Americans are diagnosed with mesothelioma every year.The Mesothelioma Applied Research Foundation is the national non-profit dedicated to finding a cure for mesothelioma by funding research, providing education and support for patients, and leading advocacy efforts to increase federal funding for mesothelioma research. To date, the Foundation has funded $6.4 million through its peer-reviewed grants program. The Foundation unites doctors, researchers, patients and families, legal advocates, union representatives, and other affected and concerned individuals to share information and advance mesothelioma research. For more information, please visit www.curemeso.org.###
11.19.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) joined House Rules Committee Chairwoman Louise Slaughter (NY-28), and Congressman Raul Grijalva (AZ-07) in asking the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to ban triclosan. A common ingredient in many over-the-counter products, triclosan has been considered dangerous by the scientific community, and it may contribute to antibiotic resistance. Triclosan is also likely to lead to higher health care costs.In a recent letter to FDA Commissioner Margaret Hamburg, the three Members of Congress press the regulatory agency to take immediate steps to protect Americans from this dangerous compound."Triclosan is found in so many everyday products and its health and environmental impacts should be cause for serious concern," said Congresswoman McCollum. "I am urging the FDA to take action as soon as possible to protect the American people. Triclosan is not only contributing to antibiotic resistance, it is also an endocrine disruptor and dioxin. There is no reason for consumer products to contain triclosan as they are no more effective in protecting against illness than products without it.""For too long, we've played public health roulette by allowing persistent chemicals into consumer products with no assurance they are safe for humans or the environment," said David Wallinga, M.D., of the Institute for Agriculture and Trade Policy in Minneapolis. "Triclosan is the latest in a long line of `bad acting' chemicals - the fact that it also destroys the healthy bacteria protecting our environment is only another mark against it. We thank Congresswoman McCollum for her leadership on this serious public health issue."A copy of the letter is available here.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
11.18.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the status of 2011 federal funding for the Central Corridor LRT project. The total cost of the Central Corridor is $957 million with 50% of the cost paid by the federal government with appropriated federal funds."In this uncertain and difficult budget environment, I am not taking federal funding for the Central Corridor for granted. This is especially true in light of the decision by Senate Republicans to reject an omnibus appropriations bill for 2011, essentially killing the $45 million House earmark secured for the project. It is important that the Central Corridor has the support of President Obama and the Federal Transit Administration, but there is no such thing as guaranteed federal project funding - especially when Tea Party Republicans will be controlling the purse strings."Local stakeholders and the next governor's Met Council need to make every effort to ensure bipartisan Congressional support for federal transit funding. Minnesota's Congressional Republicans have yet to clearly state their commitment to transit funding or their support for the Central Corridor - the largest public works project in the history of Minnesota. I would urge bipartisan support for this critical public infrastructure investment."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
11.18.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement for the record in support of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Continuation Act (H.R. 6419). This emergency legislation would have extended unemployment insurance for Americans who are still unable to find employment. Without H.R. 6419, two million Americans will immediately lose these critical benefits. The motion ultimately failed in suspension by a vote of 258 to 154 due to Republican obstruction. Although they cited fiscal concerns, Republicans continue to fight for the Bush-era tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans. They have no problem with borrowing $700 billion to help the richest 2 percent of Americans, but can't afford a tiny fraction of that to help Americans who are really struggling. The Republicans' message is clear: saving billionaires is far more important than saving millions of unemployed Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. "I rise today in strong support of extending emergency unemployment. This legislation, of which I am a proud cosponsor, is a common sense, non-controversial measure that will help American families. "The unemployment situation in our country is a national emergency. Over the past two years, millions of jobs have been lost as a result of the worst recession in 70 years, caused by Wall Street excesses and an unregulated housing market. Millions of Americans are unemployed today - but through no fault of their own. Our neighbors, our friends, and our families are the ones who agonize as the economy slowly recovers. We cannot afford to abandon the unemployed members of the American workforce, and I won't stand by silently and allow these lifelines to expire. "Unemployment benefits help millions of unemployed Americans help meet the basic needs of rent, food, and transportation while they search for jobs. Any family receiving unemployment insurance would tell you that these benefits do not provide for a luxurious lifestyle without financial worries. These same families would tell you that without these benefits, they will lose their home, lose their car, and lose the ability to feed their children. If the federal government does not assist these out-of-work Americans with emergency unemployment compensation, then they will fall to the next level of the social safety net, requiring public housing assistance, seeking medical care in hospital emergency room, or turning to food shelves to put dinner on the table. "We have seen the proof that these benefits significantly stimulate economic growth while making the difference in the lives of struggling Americans. Economists from both sides of the aisle agree that unemployment benefits go directly into the economy, stimulating the kind of activity that creates jobs. And we have never before let federal emergency unemployment expire while the unemployment rate is anywhere close to this high. "I challenge my Republican colleagues who say this legislation is unaffordable to come to the floor right now and tell me how they can pay to give the richest 2 percent of Americans $700 billion while holding this lifeline hostage. Every single vote against this extension is a vote to impoverish more American families. Every single vote against this legislation is a vote against economic growth. Every single vote against this bill is a vote against the middle class. "Our economy will recover. But until our economic growth is fully restored, I simply refuse to abandon America's families during their time of greatest need." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
11.17.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Today, during the election of the Democratic leadership team for the 112th Congress, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) nominated Rep. Xavier Becerra (CA-31) to be Vice-Chair of the Democratic Caucus for the 112th Congress. The following comments were made by Congresswoman McCollum to the full membership of the Democratic Caucus:"It is my honor to nominate our colleague, Xavier Becerra, for the leadership position of Vice-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus."I have had the opportunity to work closely with Xavier on the Budget Committee and during health care reform. Xavier is smart, tough, and committed to a progressive Democratic agenda that will both help our families and return this caucus to the majority."In the 112th Congress we need Democrats who are willing to fight for the future of this country and our party. Xavier is a leader on immigration reform, fiscally responsible investments for our communities, and tax fairness for working families."Most of all, I am impressed with Xavier's commitment to listen to all the diverse voices in our caucus. That's why I am standing here today - a member of Minnesota's Democratic Farmer Labor Party nominating a Latino leader from Los Angeles - because Xavier listens to the diverse voices in this caucus, he cares, and he is determined to move the entire caucus forward"Again, I am proud to nominate Xavier Becerra as Vice-Chairman of the Democratic Caucus for the 112th Congress."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
11.10.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in honor of America's 23 million veterans as we celebrate Veterans Day."With almost 400,000 veterans calling Minnesota home, I am grateful and humbled by their service and the sacrifices they have made on behalf of our country," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This Congress has taken dramatic steps forward in making investments in veterans' health care and services - increasing those services our veterans earned and deserve. I will continue to fight to protect and defend the benefits our veterans depend upon - including expanded mental health screening and treatment to treat PTSD and traumatic brain injury for Iraq and Afghan war veterans - from proposed budget cuts in the next Congress. Congress should not try to balance the budget on the backs of our veterans and their families."Congresswoman McCollum will be attending the following Veterans Day events:• Oakdale Veteran's Memorial GroundbreakingThursday, November 11, 9-9:30 AMOakdale City Hall1584 Hadley Ave NOakdale, MN• Minnesota State Veterans Day EventThursday, November 11, 10-11 AMVeterans Memorial Community Center8055 Barbara AveInver Grove Heights, MN• Eastside Veterans LunchThursday, November 1-1:30 PMRice Palace Buffet1626 White Bear Ave NSt. Paul, MN• Kaposia Education Center Veterans Day CeremonyThursday, November 11, 2-3 PMKaposia Education Center Gymnasium1225 First Avenue SouthSouth St. Paul, MN• Gallagher-Hansen VFW Post 295 Fish FryFriday, November 12, 11:30 AM-12:30 PM111 South Concord ExchangeSouth St. Paul, MNCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
10.26.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govST. PAUL, MN, - Ramsey County's Union Depot renovation project will receive another $40 million from the U.S. Department of Transportation, said Congresswoman Betty McCollum. The DOT will finalize the grant awards this week, McCollum said. The grants are being given to high speed rail projects across the U.S.A $148,753,916 construction contract with M.A. Mortenson Construction was approved by the Ramsey County Regional Rail Authority in September. The renovation project is expected to be completed at the end of 2012."The Depot project is the centerpiece of Ramsey County's efforts to bring new economic vitality to downtown St. Paul and the East Metro region," said Commissioner Jim McDonough, chair of the Regional Rail Authority. "The related economic development will create jobs, short term and long term. We are putting people to work now."The Union Depot project will consolidate several existing transportation services into one intermodal facility serving St. Paul, Ramsey County and the Upper Midwest. Transit providers at the Depot will include Amtrak, whose Empire Builder will move its Twin Cities station stop from its current location in the Midway area of Saint Paul to Union Depot. Greyhound and Jefferson Lines intercity bus companies have expressed their intent to relocate as well. Several local bus routes operated by Metro Transit and other regional providers will stop at Union Depot, allowing for seamless intermodal connections with intercity bus and rail. The facility is also being rebuilt to better serve pedestrian and bicycle traffic. In 2014, the Central Corridor light rail line will open with its St. Paul terminus immediately in front of the Depot, providing light rail connections from downtown St. Paul to the University of Minnesota and Minneapolis.In addition to these near-term services, the project will be designed to accommodate future intercity, commuter, and high speed rail services. Of particular importance is the fact that the Union Depot project will serve as a future terminus of the Chicago-Milwaukee-St. Paul line of the Midwest High Speed Rail network.Development will include new infill construction as well as adaptive reuse of existing buildings. It will yield direct economic benefits while contributing to a more sustainable, low-carbon urban form. It reflects Ramsey County's ongoing commitment to green construction.The project is being funded through a combination of county, state and federal funds, including the previously awarded $50 million from SAFETEA-LU and $35 million in TIGER stimulus funds.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
10.26.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman condemns radical right-wing agenda of hate, intolerance and racism St. Paul, MN -- Congresswoman Betty McCollum honors and respects the Pledge of Allegiance and believes the United States is one Nation under God. She has led the Pledge of Allegiance on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives numerous times as can be seen in these video links. Conservatives are using an eight year old video clip to incite hate, racism, and intolerance among Tea Party Republicans. This right-wing effort to call into question Congresswoman McCollum's Christian faith, her belief in God, and her patriotism is blatantly anti-American and all too similar to the extremists who earlier this year mailed a soiled American flag to her Congressional office and threatened the Congresswoman with violence. Congresswoman McCollum rejects this radical agenda and condemns the extremist tactics behind this poisonous political exploitation of the Pledge of Allegiance. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
10.25.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman McCollum Worked to Secure Critical Federal DollarsWashington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) applauded the federal Department of Transportation (DOT) for awarding a $40,000,000 grant to the construction and renovation of the Union Depot in downtown St. Paul. This announcement is a reflection of the commitment from President Obama and Democrats in Congress to save and create jobs while building a modern American economy."This major investment in Minnesota's Union Depot is another example of the strong federal commitment to creating jobs and building 21st century infrastructure in our community. Transforming the Union Depot into a multi-modal transportation hub will make St. Paul - and the entire state of Minnesota - more economically competitive. The fact that this $40 million grant comes from a new high-speed passenger rail program created by the Appropriations Committee is recognition that the Union Depot is Minnesota's link to the Midwest high-speed rail network."Scheduled to reopen in September 2012, Union Depot will accelerate the revitalization of downtown St. Paul and establish a major transportation and transit hub for the Twin Cities and all of Minnesota. Union Depot will service Amtrak, local and interstate buses, and the Central Corridor light rail line. Later, the Depot will service commuter rail and high speed rail to Chicago.In addition to transforming the downtown St. Paul area, Union Depot will generate 3,000 jobs between January 2011 and the end of 2012.In February 2010, Union Depot also received a $35 million TIGER grant, which is part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
10.08.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govRepublicans want to eliminate criminal justice funds for Dakota County, Gateway Corridor funds for Washington County, and $2 million for Minnesota veteransSt. Paul, MN – In a letter to U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi dated October 8, 2010, more than 50 Republicans, including Minority Leader John Boehner (R-OH) and Rep. John Kline (R-MN), called for an elimination of congressionally directed projects (earmarks) from any appropriations bills to pass the House following the November 2nd election. The Republican proposal to eliminate these projects from the fiscal year 2011 appropriations bills would reduce federal funding to Minnesota by millions of dollars and cripple vital jobs and infrastructure projects like the Central Corridor LRT between St. Paul and Minneapolis.As Minnesota’s only member of the Appropriations Committee, Congresswoman Betty McCollum called the Republican proposal a clear indication of their disdain for federal investments that will create jobs and keep our communities strong and growing.“For Republicans – including a Minnesota Republican – to call for eliminating funding for the Central Corridor earmark and the thousands of jobs will hurt Minnesota and make our state less competitive. Additionally, this proposal cuts earmarked funding for Dakota County criminal justice projects and the Minnesota National Guard’s Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program – projects that impact my district and my Republican colleague’s district,” McCollum said.Republicans aggressively support adding to the federal debt to make permanent Bush-era tax cuts for the richest 2 percent of Americans costing $700 billion, yet want to eliminate $3 billion in high-impact community investments, which are .17% of the federal budget. This includes projects such as $2 million for the Minnesota National Guard’s Beyond the Yellow Ribbon Program to assist with support and reintegration for our military personnel and $500,000 for the Dakota County Juvenile Detention Alternatives Initiative which makes our community safer and saves money for taxpayers.Even worse, this Republican letter unfairly tarnishes the reputations of respected non-profit entities in Minnesota such as Dakota and Ramsey counties, the University of Minnesota, and the Minnesota National Guard by claiming their participation in the earmark process is corrupt and part of a “spoils system.”“It is amazing to me that the same Republicans who defend the corruption of Wall Street CEOs can accuse my neighbors who are honorable public servants, elected officials and community leaders from the Minnesota National Guard, Dakota, Washington and Ramsey Counties of participating in a corrupt process. Congressional appropriations are an open, transparent process, providing real benefits to Minnesota. Minnesotans pay their taxes, but the Republicans want to cheat them of receiving the benefits of their tax dollars. I suggest that these Tea Party Republicans actually read the U.S. Constitution, particularly Article I to learn that Congress has the Constitutional responsibility to fund the government,” said McCollum.Democrats reformed the earmark process inherited from Republicans in 2007 by cutting the number and amount of earmarks funding in half, and instituting new transparency requirements which allows the public to see requests online. Congresswoman Betty McCollumCongressionally-directed funding secured in House Appropriations legislation for fiscal year 2011(Final appropriation levels subject to House-Senate conference)Central Corridor Light Rail constructionMetropolitan Council$45,000,000Beyond the Yellow Ribbon Reintegration ProgramMinnesota National Guard$2,000,000Life, Health, and Safety Building ImprovementsHarriet Tubman Domestic Violence Center East$600,000Gateway Corridor (Interstate 94) Transit Corridor planningWashington County$750,000Job Training and Mentoring ProgramPreservation Alliance of Minnesota$100,000Minnesota Hands and Voices Program Expansion to reach underserved and minority communities - hearing loss early interventionLifetrack Resources$400,000Juvenile Detention Alternatives InitiativesDakota County$500,000Criminal Justice Information Integration NetworkDakota County$300,000Children's Physical Therapy PoolGillette Children's Hospital$600,000Runaway Intervention ProjectRamsey County Attorney$200,000Bovine Tuberculosis (bTB) Disease Control and Eradication ProgramUniversity of Minnesota$246,000City of Maplewood Gerten Pond ImprovementsCity of Maplewood$1,000,000Voyageurs National ParkVoyageurs National Park Association$366,500Upper Mississippi River RestorationU.S. Army Corps of Engineers, St. Paul District$21,150,000Infrastructure and Capacity EnhancementsAccountAbility Minnesota$205,000Renaissance Box Restoration Historic Preservation and Energy Efficiency ImprovementsAeon$350,000Upper Midwest Industrial Coating Training ProgramMinnesota Finishing Trades Training Fund$400,000Mille Lacs Regional Dialysis CenterMille Lacs Band of Ojibwe$1,300,000Bus acquisition and facilities for Riverview CorridorRamsey County$750,000Click here to visit Congresswoman McCollum's appropriations web page Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
10.08.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul Doctor Participates as Panelist on Payment ReformsWashington, DC - Today experts met on Capitol Hill for the 2010 National Summit on Health Care Quality and Value. As part of the new health care law, this event is an opportunity for healthcare providers, consumer advocates, employers and other interested stakeholders across the country to come together to discuss how best to improve health care delivery and Medicare payment systems to reward high-quality care.The National Summit was spearheaded by the Congressional Quality Care Coalition, which provides Members of Congress a forum to transform the health care system to reward value in care and make evidence-based, quality care the standard regardless of location in the United States. The Coalition will also continue to address geographic variation in Medicare reimbursement for seniors. Representatives Betty McCollum (MN-04), Bruce Braley (IA-01), Jay Inslee (WA-01), and Ron Kind (WI-03) are the co-chairs of the Congressional Quality Care Caucus."The National Summit is an important step toward providing all Americans with quality health care," said Congresswoman McCollum. "In the short-term, health care reform has already stopped the rampant and unethical business practices committed by many insurance companies. In the long-term, there must be greater efforts to make health care more efficient for patients and health care workers alike. My hope is that we will continue moving in the right direction.""For decades, Iowa's doctors have been punished for no reason other than geography," said Congressman Braley. "Today's summit is an important step down the path of finally ending the unfair geographic disparities that have punished Iowa's medical providers for decades and changing the way Medicare does business. The issues being discussed today will not only give patients access to better care, but will also help move Medicare's reimbursement system to one that rewards quality outcomes instead of the number of tests performed. We still have a lot of work to do and I look forward to working closely with Secretary Sebelius to ensure we fully implement all the provisions she guaranteed during the late-night health care negotiations.""Reducing costs and improving patient care takes a national effort," said Congressman Inslee. "The Quality Care Coalition has been at the forefront of this conversation and I look forward to the steps that come out of this summit. Making our health care system reward quality of care, not quantity of care, is key to our long term budget and health.""A value-based reimbursement system benefits all regions - it provides the kind of care patients need and can afford, and reduces risks associated with overuse of the health care system," said Congressman Kind. "Today's summit will lead to a more cost effective way to pay for and deliver health care in our country and lower costs in the long run, something at which western Wisconsin has excelled.""The National Summit on Health Care Quality and Value is an opportunity for all of us to learn that quality health care does not mean expensive health care," said Dr. Joseph Tashjian, Chief of Staff-elect at Regions Hospital and the immediate past President of St. Paul Radiology. "We can work together to utilize solutions that help both the patient and the payor. Fostering collaboration between the public and private sector will be important in achieving these goals."The National Summit's participants included Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, officials from the Department of Health and Human Services, officials from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, health care providers, health policy experts, and consumer stakeholders.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
10.07.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govLoans Will Create Nearly 100 New Jobs StatewideWASHINGTON, D.C. [10/07/10] - Today, Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.) and Reps. Betty McCollum, Keith Ellison, and Tim Walz (D-Minn.) announced that more than $18 million in loans will go to small businesses throughout Minnesota, helping many of them remain open and creating nearly 100 jobs. The loans, which will be overseen by the Small Business Administration, were made available by the Small Business Jobs Act passed by Congress and signed by President Obama in September. Nationally, $970 million in loans will be issued by local banks and guaranteed by the Small Business Administration."Small businesses are the engines of job creation in Minnesota and across the nation," said Sen. Klobuchar. "The Small Business Jobs Act is providing funds that will help our small businesses across the state gain access to credit, which is essential to helping spur economic growth and create jobs.""While our economy is showing signs of recovery, millions of Americans are still unemployed," said Sen. Franken. "These loans will allow small businesses all over the state to grow and create good jobs for Minnesotans who badly need them.""Once again, Democrats in Congress have taken swift action to save small businesses and jobs, which are especially critical in this economy," said Rep. McCollum. "Small businesses all across Minnesota will get much needed relief from tight lending standards and high taxes. The federal government's investment in the small business sector will go a long way in helping jumpstart local economic growth and job creation.""American workers and small businesses are the engine of our economy and ensuring their success is critical to building prosperity for Minnesota's working families," said Rep. Ellison. "These small business loans are just one more tool to empower entrepreneurs and innovators to grow and put more Minnesotans back to work.""The Small Business Jobs Act is helping the private sector move the ball forward on job creation and economic growth," said Rep. Walz. "I'm pleased to see these SBA loans made to local businesses and I expect that this law will continue to expand private sector lending in the near term through the incentives it provides for small community lenders."The details for each loan follow:1474 Investments, LLC, Vadnais Heights: $275,000 creating 15 jobs3 Kids and Us LLC, St. Paul Park: $40,000 creating 2 jobs. Albany Auto Center, Inc, Albany: $150,000. Anderson's Roso Theatre, Roseau: $230,000 creating 1 job. Arcon Solutions, Inc, Burnsville: $43,500 creating 1 job. Bierschenk, Inc, Marshall: $900,000. Bjerga Feed Stores Inc, Motley: $200,000.DaRan Inc, Zimmerman: $250,000. Eggen's Bulk Service, Inc, Milaca: $1,550,000. Feed Products North Inc, Rosemount: $1,478,000 creating 25 jobs.Fogarty of Hastings, Inc, Hastings: $200,000.Genesis Dance Company, LLC, Maple Grove: $30,000 creating 5 jobs. Grand Portage-Isle Royale Transportation, White Bear Lake: $144,000 creating 2 jobs.Hanco Corp, Eagan: $1,058,000 creating 2 jobs.HealthStar Home Health, Inc, Maplewood: $350,000.Heights Theater Building, Inc, Columbia Heights: $236,000.Jack Larson Seeds, Inc, Clements: $220,000.JJN Companies, LLC, Minnetonka: $700,000 creating 12 jobs.Johnson Fitness Centers, LLC, Princeton: $16,000.Jutz, Inc, Bemidji: $525,000 creating 1 job.Kenneth J. Ryan, Goodhue: $30,000. Krueger Dirtwerx, Inc, Barnum: $60,000.Lumberjack Lounge, LLC, Cloquet: $276,000.Morning Star Woodworks, Inc, Cloquet: $357,000.Musselman Family Chiropractic, New Ulm: $80,000.Northland Paper Reclamation, Maple Grove: $500,000.Oak Grove Animal Hospital, Ltd, Oak Grove: $1,134,500 creating 2 jobs.Peapods, Inc, Saint Paul: $279,000.RDY Enterprises, Inc, Shakopee: $300,000.Real Estate Properties, Inc, Blaine: $150,000.Rock Mamas II, LLC, Eden Prairie: $160,000 creating 6 jobs.Studio Plus Software, LLC, Cambridge: $752,000 creating 4 jobs.Synergy Family Physicians, PA, White Bear Lake: $350,000 creating 3 jobs.TC Pallet, Inc, South St. Paul: $1,200,000 creating 10 jobs.The Watson Company, Inc, Cambridge: $345,000.Think-N-Play Learning Center, Esko: $570,000.Tudor Rose, LLC, Brainerd: $1,800,000.Wayne's Auto Body of Hastings, Hastings: $327,000 creating 2 jobs.Wilson Enterprises, Inc, Baudette: $789,600.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
10.04.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul Doctor Participates as Panelist on Payment ReformsWashington, DC - Today experts met on Capitol Hill for the 2010 National Summit on Health Care Quality and Value. As part of the new health care law, this event is an opportunity for healthcare providers, consumer advocates, employers and other interested stakeholders across the country to come together to discuss how best to improve health care delivery and Medicare payment systems to reward high-quality care.The National Summit was spearheaded by the Congressional Quality Care Coalition, which provides Members of Congress a forum to transform the health care system to reward value in care and make evidence-based, quality care the standard regardless of location in the United States. The Coalition will also continue to address geographic variation in Medicare reimbursement for seniors. Representatives Betty McCollum (MN-04), Bruce Braley (IA-01), Jay Inslee (WA-01), and Ron Kind (WI-03) are the co-chairs of the Congressional Quality Care Caucus."The National Summit is an important step toward providing all Americans with quality health care," said Congresswoman McCollum. "In the short-term, health care reform has already stopped the rampant and unethical business practices committed by many insurance companies. In the long-term, there must be greater efforts to make health care more efficient for patients and health care workers alike. My hope is that we will continue moving in the right direction.""For decades, Iowa's doctors have been punished for no reason other than geography," said Congressman Braley. "Today's summit is an important step down the path of finally ending the unfair geographic disparities that have punished Iowa's medical providers for decades and changing the way Medicare does business. The issues being discussed today will not only give patients access to better care, but will also help move Medicare's reimbursement system to one that rewards quality outcomes instead of the number of tests performed. We still have a lot of work to do and I look forward to working closely with Secretary Sebelius to ensure we fully implement all the provisions she guaranteed during the late-night health care negotiations.""Reducing costs and improving patient care takes a national effort," said Congressman Inslee. "The Quality Care Coalition has been at the forefront of this conversation and I look forward to the steps that come out of this summit. Making our health care system reward quality of care, not quantity of care, is key to our long term budget and health.""A value-based reimbursement system benefits all regions - it provides the kind of care patients need and can afford, and reduces risks associated with overuse of the health care system," said Congressman Kind. "Today's summit will lead to a more cost effective way to pay for and deliver health care in our country and lower costs in the long run, something at which western Wisconsin has excelled.""The National Summit on Health Care Quality and Value is an opportunity for all of us to learn that quality health care does not mean expensive health care," said Dr. Joseph Tashjian, Chief of Staff-elect at Regions Hospital and the immediate past President of St. Paul Radiology. "We can work together to utilize solutions that help both the patient and the payor. Fostering collaboration between the public and private sector will be important in achieving these goals."The National Summit's participants included Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, officials from the Department of Health and Human Services, officials from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, health care providers, health policy experts, and consumer stakeholders.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
10.01.2010	Congresswoman McCollum Votes Protect American Jobs Congresswoman McCollum and Democrats were joined by 99 Republicans in passing the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378), which helps prevent unfair trade practices that hurt U.S. exports and push American jobs overseas. Certain countries, such as China, suppress the value of their currencies to make exports cheaper on the international market. This currency manipulation makes U.S. exports less competitive, hurts U.S. manufacturers, and slows the economic recovery. "The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act will boost the American economy and create jobs without spending a single dime of taxpayer money. This bill gives the Obama Administration the tools it needs to protect our economy from the unfair trade practices of foreign countries like China," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Opponents of this bill make it very clear whose side they're on: multinational corporations that have already shipped their jobs to China. Today, I join my colleagues to stand with American workers, American consumers, and the American economy." Congresswoman McCollum Recognized as "Champion for Children" This week, the First Focus Campaign for Children recognized Congresswoman McCollum and 99 other Members of Congress for their efforts to protect children and build a better future for the next generation. These Members of Congress have worked to advance policies that make children and families a top priority. "Children are our nation's most precious resource because they represent our nation's potential," said Congresswoman McCollum. "We have a responsibility in Congress to continue establishing effective public policies that protect our children and give them the resources to become self-sufficient and healthy adults." Domestic Violence Awareness Month October marks Domestic Violence Awareness Month, and Congresswoman McCollum supported a Congressional resolution, which acknowledges this critical issue. Although tremendous strides have been made in fighting domestic violence, the statistics are still shocking. One in every four women will experience domestic violence in her lifetime, and an estimated 1.3 million women are victims of physical assault by an partner each year. Congresswoman McCollum has consistently supported federal policies and programs that fight domestic violence and provide support victims and their families. 2010 National Summit On Health Care Quality and Value On Monday, October 4, the 2010 National Summit On Health Care Quality and Value will convene on Capitol Hill. This Summit is an opportunity for health care providers, consumer advocates, employers and other interested stakeholders across the country to come together to discuss how best to improve health care delivery and Medicare payment systems to reward high-quality care. Congresswoman McCollum has been a long-time proponent of fixing the disproportionate Medicare reimbursement system as Minnesota hospitals were at a disadvantage from the rest of the country. Department of Defense's Absentee Voting Week Ends Monday, October 4 The Department of Defense is reminding active military personnel that Absentee Voting Week ends on Monday, October 4. On its website, the Department of Defense has posted information on the absentee voting process. Congresswoman McCollum encourages all individuals who vote under the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act to get their absentee ballots in on time.
09.30.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govMinneapolis, MN - For the more than 5 million people nationwide living with Alzheimer's, and the 97,760 living right here in Minnesota, the Alzheimer's Association Minnesota-North Dakota commends Representative McCollum for sponsoring the "National Alzheimer's Project Act," {S. 3036/H.R. 4689). In supporting this legislation, Representative McCollum signal her understanding of the fundamental need for a coordinated federal approach to confront one of America's most feared and costly diseases.Today there is no one government entity whose sole purpose is to mount a full campaign against Alzheimer's disease which, without the discovery and development of effective treatments, is poised to strike 10 million baby boomers over the coming years. Building on the recommendations offered by the Alzheimer's Study Group (ASG), an independent, bipartisan panel created to evaluate the government's current efforts to combat the disease, this legislation creates a National Alzheimer's Project Office at the Department of Health and Human Services and an inter-agency Advisory Council that is responsible for creating a national plan to confront the escalating crisis. Drawing on the expertise residing in various government agencies as well as individuals living with the disease, caregivers, providers and other stakeholders, this office would provide strategic planning and coordination for the fight against Alzheimer's across the federal government as a whole.In addition to the devastating impact on families, Alzheimer's also threatens the nation's health care system because of its significant costs. According to the Alzheimer's Association's 2010 Alzheimer's Disease Facts and Figures report, there are nearly 11 million Alzheimer and dementia caregivers nationwide providing 12.5 billion hours of unpaid care valued at a staggering $144 billion. This national figure includes 196,105 Alzheimer and dementia caregivers right here in Minnesota who provide a caregiver contribution of $2,568,233,134.On behalf of the millions of people living with Alzheimer's and the millions more at risk of developing this terminal disease in the future, the Alzheimer's Association is grateful for the leadership of Representative McCollum for supporting this meaningful legislation which, if enacted, would significantly improve the nation's ability to overcome the rapidly mounting Alzheimer crisis.About the Alzheimer's Association Minnesota-North DakotaThe Alzheimer's Association Minnesota-North Dakota is the leading voluntary health organization in Alzheimer care, support and research. Our mission is to eliminate Alzheimer's disease through the advancement of research; to provide and enhance care and support for all affected; and to reduce the risk of dementia through the promotion of brain health. Our vision is a world without Alzheimer's. For more information, visit www.alz.org/mnnd.
09.30.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongressional Quality Care Coalition Leads Effort to Improve Medicare Reimbursement, Health Care Workforce, and Overall EfficiencyWashington, DC - Next week, the National Summit on Health Care Quality and Value will take place on Capitol Hill. Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius is scheduled to give a keynote address, and Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Dr. Donald Berwick will also speak. Spearheaded by the Congressional Quality Care Caucus, the Summit is an opportunity for healthcare providers, consumer advocates, employers and other interested stakeholders across the country to come together to discuss how best to improve health care delivery and Medicare payment systems to reward high-quality care.Formed earlier this year, the Congressional Quality Care Caucus provides Members of Congress a forum to transform the health care system to reward value in care and make evidence-based, quality care the standard regardless of location in the United States. The Caucus also continues to address geographic variations in Medicare reimbursement for seniors.Representatives Betty McCollum (MN-04), Bruce Braley (IA-01), Jay Inslee (WA-01), and Ron Kind (WI-03) are the co-chairs of the Congressional Quality Care Caucus.PARTICIPANTS: Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen SebeliusAdministrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Dr. Donald BerwickOfficials from the Department of Health and Human ServicesOfficials from the Centers for Medicare& Medicaid ServicesHealth Care ProvidersHealth Policy ExpertsConsumer StakeholdersWHEN: Monday, October 4, 2010, 9:00 - 5:00 PMWHERE: U.S. Capitol Visitor Center AuditoriumMedia outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Maria Reppas at maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
09.29.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the passage of the Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act (H.R. 2378). This bill helps prevent unfair trade practices that hurt U.S. exports and push American jobs overseas. In 2009, the U.S. trade deficit was $500.9 billion; the trade deficit with China alone was $227 billion. Certain countries, such as China, suppress the value of their currencies to make exports cheaper on the international market. This currency manipulation makes U.S. exports less competitive, hurts U.S. manufacturers, and slows economic growth in our country. This legislation is a component of the Democrats' "Make It In America" initiative, which increases manufacturing and job creation in the United States. The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act passed by a vote of 348 to 79. "The Currency Reform for Fair Trade Act will boost the American economy and create jobs without spending a single dime of taxpayer money. This bill gives the Obama Administration the tools it needs to protect our economy from the unfair trade practices of foreign countries like China. Opponents of this bill make it very clear whose side they're on: multinational corporations that have already shipped their jobs to China. Today I join my colleagues to stand with American workers, American consumers, and the American economy." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.28.2010	For Immediate Release: September 28, 2010Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman McCollum recently cosponsored two pieces of legislation in support of the fight against drunk driving. The ROADS SAFE Act (H.R. 4890) would fund the research and development of vehicle technologies to end drunk driving, and the Drunk Driving Repeat Offender Prevention Act (H.R. 4891) would require the installation of ignition interlock devices in the automobiles of convicted drunk drivers for a minimum of 180 days."Drunk drivers risk the lives of innocent people, and our communities shouldn't have to tolerate this reckless endangerment," said Congresswoman McCollum. "The ROADS SAFE Act (H.R. 4890) and the Drunk Driving Repeat Offender Prevention Act are sound policies, which will hopefully reduce the occurrences of drunk driving and make our roads and cities safer. When a drunk driver gets behind the wheel, he risks the safety of every driver in his path."H.R. 4890 and H.R. 4891 were introduced by Republican Congressman Vernon Ehlers (MI-3). Last year in Minnesota, drunk driving killed 141 people, and there were an estimated 46,000 DWI violations.Despite successful educational and enforcement initiatives, drunk driving still accounts for one third of all traffic fatalities. An estimated 9,000 lives could be saved every year if all vehicles were equipped with advanced alcohol detection technology.A proud supporter of Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD), Congresswoman McCollum will continue advocating policies, such as H.R. 4890 and H.R. 4891, that fight drunk driving and save lives.
09.23.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding the Department of Education's announcement that Summit-University and Frogtown neighborhoods in St. Paul will receive a $500,000 Promise Neighborhood grant. These funds will help improve communities around Jackson and Maxfield Elementary Schools with the goal of closing the achievement gap and fostering an expectation of higher education."As the economy continues to slowly recover, the best investment we can make is in our children and public education, which is I support programs such as ‘Achievement Plus.' Targeting underserved St. Paul neighborhoods, this program helps close the achievement gaps that consistently affect low-income and minority students. These federal funds from the Promise Neighborhoods program will help struggling students successfully attain a high-quality education so they will be better prepared for college or a career when they leave high school."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
09.23.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govRepublicans "Pledge" to Defend Insurance Industry InterestsWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) welcomed the new Patient's Bill of Rights, which will take effect today, September 23, 2010. Part of the Affordable Care Act, the Patient's Bill of Rights is a historic step towards placing American families in control of their own health care."Starting today Americans have protections and rights that will put them in charge of their health care choices. For decades insurance companies have discriminated and denied coverage to sick patients because of pre-existing conditions. That ends today," said Congresswoman McCollum.The Patient's Bill of Rights is the law of the land and offers the following rights, including:• Prohibiting insurance companies from canceling a patient's health care coverage if they get sick;• Protecting children with a chronic health condition or other pre-existing conditions from being denied coverage by insurance companies;• Allowing young adults (to age 26) to join or stay on their parents' health insurance coverage;• Eliminating the lifetime caps or limits on health care coverage;• Phasing out restrictive annual caps or limits to health care coverage;• Eliminating deductibles or co-payments for preventative health services and screenings;• Ensuring every patients' right to choose their own doctor;• Allowing access out-of-network emergency room care at in-network prices.Earlier today, Republican leaders issued the "Pledge to America," which calls for repealing the Affordable Health Care Act. If repealed, the federal budget deficit will significantly increase while children and communities of color will suffer. When Republicans were in the majority in Congress (1995-2007), they did absolutely nothing to reform the broken health care system, but they call for eliminating patient rights in favor of fighting for insurance companies."The Republican ‘pledge' rehashes the same old failed ideas that have ignored the needs of women, children, and middle class families. The only new idea is to eliminate the very consumer protections that help preserve and protect the well-being of millions of Americans," continued Congresswoman McCollum.These new protections will go into effect for health care plans beginning on or after September 23, 2010.For more information on how the new health care law will help you, click here.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
09.15.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN -- Members of the South St. Paul Healthy Youth Community Coalition (SSPHYCC), a coalition that works to prevent and reduce alcohol, tobacco and other drug use among young people in South St. Paul, met with Congresswoman Betty McCollum at her district office on Aug. 31, 2010. The Congresswoman, who was born and raised in South St. Paul and graduated from South St. Paul High School, wanted to learn about the work that the coalition is doing to keep the youth of her hometown safe and healthy.Coalition member and school board member Wendy Felton talked about the important work that the coalition was doing in the schools, including the MOST of Us® campaign, which highlights the positive by showing that most South St. Paul students are making healthy choices. Ellie Church, SSPHYCC Coordinator, explained that the coalition also funded Project Northland, an alcohol use prevention curriculum for 6th-9th graders, and Reconnecting Youth, a prevention program for at-risk youth in 9h-12th grade.Carmen Robles, the Latino Outreach Coordinator for the coalition, spoke about the JÃ³venes de Salud group at South St. Paul High School, an after-school group that engages students in their community and helping to make it a better place. JÃ³venes de Salud member Salvador Martinez-Fleming, a 10th grader at South St. Paul High School, talked about how the JÃ³venes de Salud program has provided him & his friends a place to learn and socialize with each other, and how it's given him a place to help his friends when they struggle with making healthy choices."The Healthy Youth Coalition has been doing wonderful and important work for our community," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Their work is making a real difference in the lives of young people in South St. Paul."
09.14.2010	Media Advisory For Immediate ReleaseContact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWhat: National Press Briefing Launching the Newborn Coalition The Newborn Coalition includes lawmakers, health industry representatives, governmental agencies, non-profits, educators and child advocates committed to shaping policies and advancing a federal agenda in education, outreach, health innovation, early identification/prevention, rural telehealth/telemedicine, research and emerging technology to improve outcomes for newborns.Who: Congressional & Health LeadersU.S. Rep. Betty McCollum (D-MN), co-founder of the Congressional Global Health Caucus and the Congressional Quality Care Coalition, and invited representatives from the White House, members of congress, U.S. Dept. of Health & Human Services, National Institute of Health, the Health Resources Services Administration, private sector health innovators, and child advocacy organizations.When & Where:Wednesday, September 15, 20104:00 PM in the Murrow Room, 13th Floor5:00 PM in the First Amendment LoungeNational Press Club (14th & F. Streets)529 14th Street Northwest, Washington DC, 20045Note: Representatives of the news media are also cordially invited to a 5:00 pm reception in the First Amendment Lounge following the news conference. For every participant in this landmark event, the Newborn Coalition will make an in-kind donation to NICU families at Children's National Medical Center in Washington D.C. This hospital is one of many in the U.S. adopting proactive newborn health programs that support early detection of hidden diseases and disorders than endanger newborn lives.Contact: Annamarie Saarinen, annamarie@newborncoalition.org (612-964-6728).
09.13.2010	For Immediate Release: September 13, 2010Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Earlier today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) met with representatives from the high-tech sector to discuss its economic potential in Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District and the rest of the state. This event was hosted by Cray, a supercomputer company, and organized by the Minnesota High Tech Association (MHTA). During the dialogue, Congresswoman McCollum aimed to build a stronger relationship with the technology sector and the federal government, especially as it pertains to creativity, job creation, innovation, and economic growth."The high-tech sector is essential to Minnesota's economy for today and tomorrow," said Congresswoman McCollum. "From providing high-paying, high-skilled jobs to manufacturing products that contain the latest innovative technology, this industry needs a stronger partnership with the federal government. Together we can work together to build that partnership so that we can unlock the potential of high-tech innovation and refocus our economy on productivity."In addition to discussing how the technology sector can improve the economy, roundtable participants also voiced their concerns on current public policy issues, some of which Congress is currently considering. Those topics included broadband, patent reform, role of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) education."MHTA applauds Congresswoman McCollum for her leadership on these issues," said Peter Lindstrom, MHTA vice president of public affairs. "By working together we can boost economic growth for this vital part of Minnesota's economy."The event was attended by many prominent technology companies in Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District, including Cray, Instrumental, Shavlik Technologies, Unisys, HB Fuller, Global Traffic Technologies, Thomson Reuters, Primordial, Remmele, McAfee, GovDelivery, and Twin Star Medical.Congresswoman Betty McCollum currently serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. She represents Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District.The MHTA promotes the growth, sustainability and global competitiveness of Minnesota's technology-based economy through advocacy, collaboration and education.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
09.10.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govCynthia Boyd, MinnPostBunk beds in dorms, yes, but baby cribs? Now that's different, yet it seems there's a crying need for just that kind of accommodation at the Hubert H. Humphrey Job Corps Center in St. Paul.For some years, according to center director David MacKenzie, about 25 impoverished young mothers or more a year have had to turn down the opportunity for free academic and career training at the facilities - courtesy of Uncle Sam - because they couldn't afford childcare while they learned. Or they had housing or other issues.Pile on the fact that because of early pregnancies some had dropped out of high school. "What kind of job can they get without an education?" MacKenzie asked Thursday.Enter the Job Corps."Our end result is not just a diploma, it's a job,'' said MacKenzie, about the program that provides schooling and technical training to almost 350 men and women, ages 16 to 24, a year. If you've been to the Minnesota State Fair, you've probably seen the campus across the street, a no-frills cluster of buildings on Snelling Avenue.Interestingly, it's "probably the most diverse Job Corps in the country,'' MacKenzie said, boasting 60 percent students of color, with probably half of those recent immigrants from Asia or Africa. To qualify for the tuition-free education and room and board, students' income must fall below the federal poverty line.Back to those moms and the kid-friendly dorm to open on the Job Corps campus this fall.Funded in part by $2.3 million in American Recovery and Reinvestment (ARRA) monies, a century-old building has been converted into oversize dorm rooms en suite to allow as many as 18 very poor young Minnesota mothers and their children from across the state to live on campus.While moms attend class, their children will learn and play at the Head Start care center located on the building's first floor.Most students live on campus during their training, usually stretching from 18 months to 24 months, and that's important, said Cate Smith Edlund, the center's business and community liaison, because it's "essentially our job to get [students] into that rhythm of going to work, what they do. They don't necessarily come from that kind of background."That rhythm means students in dorms live by a regimented schedule: they're up and signed in with a resident adviser by 6 a.m., then take a shower, dress appropriately for the day, clean their rooms and closets, pass room inspection and head to the cafeteria before 8 a.m. class, she said. It's all part of learning what the school calls life skills.In classrooms, students progress at their own pace in individualized learning programs. They may choose training in business technology, facilities maintenance, food services, health occupations, medical office support or painting and wallpapering.Administered by the U.S. Department of Labor, there are Job Corps centers in all 50 states, with 87 percent of graduates moving on to careers in the private sector, the military or to further education.Edlund said she likes to say, Job Corps students "...have potential but no resources. For our students, their crime is being poor." She talks about them often as she seeks employers for job shadowing and internship opportunities for students.Brittany Mackie, 21, is a likely dorm resident. Mother of four-month-old daughter Londynn, Mackie is living in temporary housing in St. Paul right now, a long bus ride away from the school.But she'd just heard she could move into a subsidized apartment. "I might just stay on campus because I think it would be better for me and my child.'' That way, she said, she wouldn't have to hassle with buses to get to school and could bring her daughter to daycare right in the dorm building. Beside, the rooms are "very nice," she said, though she would have to abide by dorm curfews and other rules. "I'm trying to decide.''With a work background of fast-food and restaurant jobs and only a little college under her belt, Mackie could benefit from the finance and business training she's seeking at the center. "I want to own my own business, a daycare or clothing store,'' she said. "They can help with a lot of things. I like the environment there, the diversity.''And when she's finished? "I'm going to work a job, whatever job they can help me find.''U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum was on hand Thursday to celebrate the dormitory as well as a second renovated building for classrooms for students to train for railroad, airline, office and nursing assistant jobs.McCollum praised students for leaving the Job Corps "ready to go into the work force and succeed.''Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
09.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Joins Launch of New Program at J&J Distributing PlantSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), Senator Al Franken, and St. Paul Mayor Chris Coleman will visit J&J Distributing in St. Paul to highlight the company's energy efficiency upgrades made possible by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Using Recovery Act funding, the St. Paul Port Authority has established a Trillion BTU Energy Loan Program to help Minnesota businesses and non-profit organizations save money by energy consumption by one trillion Btu's annually. This effort is one of the first in the nation to use energy conservation as an economic development tool.St. Paul Port Authority secured $5 million from the Recovery Act for the energy-saving program. Energy savings will repay the cost of improvements and provide money for future enhancements. Ultimately, this project will improve economic competitiveness for local businesses, stimulate job creation, and conserve energy.WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04)Senator Al FrankenSt. Paul Mayor Chris ColemanWHEN: Friday, September 3, 2010, 9:00 - 10:00 AMWHERE: J&J Distributing, 653 Rice Street, St. Paul, Minnesota 55103Media outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Maria Reppas at maria.reppas@mail.house.gov or 202-225-6631.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
09.01.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govGovernor's Move Halts Medicaid Expansion, High-Risk Insurance Pools, and Insurance ExchangeWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty's recent Executive Order to prevent health care reform from being implemented in the state. Governor Pawlenty's action will block Medicaid expansion, stop funding for high-risk insurance pools, and prevent an insurance exchange for Minnesotans to shop for health coverage. The amount of these rejected funds totals over $1 billion."Governor Pawlenty's executive order truly is a political manifesto to the most extreme Republican/Tea Party elements in America. This decision is a sad example of the governor playing political games with people's lives - denying available federal funds for health care. It is offensive to me that our governor would use his power to hurt the most vulnerable in our society."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
08.31.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govOrganization Acknowledges McCollum's Work on Health Care Reform, Medicare Geographic Disparity IssueWashington, DC - The Minnesota Hospital Association (MHA) has honored Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) with its 2010 Public Achievement Award. In a ceremony with MHA leaders and members, Congresswoman McCollum was recognized for her work in the 111th Congress shaping health care reform legislation - specifically her efforts to correct the Medicare geographic disparity for Minnesota hospitals, doctors, and patients.Congresswoman McCollum called receiving the MHA's Public Achievement Award "...a tremendous honor from an organization that is influential and vital to high quality health care in Minnesota. I am grateful to receive such prestigious recognition for my work on behalf of Minnesota." She added, "For far too long, Minnesota was being unfairly treated by Medicare for delivering high-quality medical care at a low cost. Thanks to the hard work and support from the Minnesota Hospital Association, Congress will ensure that Minnesota hospitals, doctors, and patients are no longer disadvantaged by Medicare."For decades, hospitals in Minnesota have been inadequately reimbursed by the Medicare system. Although Minnesota doctors were giving high-quality care to patients, hospitals were only being reimbursed for quantity, putting the entire state at a disadvantage in comparison to other states. The more patients a hospital could serve, the more Medicare would reimburse without taking quality of care into consideration."Thanks to Congresswoman McCollum's perseverance and fortitude, the new federal health care reform law will begin addressing the long-standing Medicare payment inequity that for many years penalized Minnesota providers that deliver higher-quality and lower-cost health care," said Lawrence Massa, MHA president and CEO. "Minnesota hospitals are fortunate to have her leadership and representation in Washington."A founding member of the Congressional Quality Care Coalition, Congresswoman McCollum will continue her work to transform the health care system to reward value in care and make evidence-based, quality care the standard regardless of location in the United States. During the health care debate, the Coalition was able to secure an agreement with the White House to address Medicare geographic disparity as part of health care reform.Every year, the Minnesota Hospital Association 2010 Public Achievement Award recognizes a public official in an elected or appointed position or a private citizen who has performed extraordinary service in the health care policy arena.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.27.2010	
08.20.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) and Oakdale city officials will host an energy efficiency groundbreaking event, which will feature improvements to the Oakdale Public Works Building. Officials will tour the facility and discuss planned improvements.These improvements include the installation of a new geothermal heat pump system, which would use water from an existing nearby water filtration facility to heat and cool the Public Works facility. The City of Oakdale will also replace existing high-pressure sodium parking lot lamps located at the City Hall and Public Works facilities with light-emitting diode (LED) lamps.Last year, Congresswoman McCollum worked to secure $400,000 for energy efficiency upgrades for Oakdale through the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Act (H.R. 3183).WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollumOakdale Mayor Carmen SarrackCity Administrator Craig WaldronOakdale City Council MembersWHEN: Tuesday, August 24, 2010, 2:30 - 3:30 PMWHERE: Oakdale Public Works, 1900 Hadley Avenue North, Oakdale, MN, 55128Media outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Maria Reppas at maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.###
08.10.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govFully-Paid for Legislation Will Prevent Layoffs of Police Officers, Teachers, Nurses, and FirefightersWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) promptly returned to Washington this week to vote on critical legislation that would save hundreds of thousands of teaching jobs and prevent the layoffs of police officers, firefighters, and nurses. The Education Jobs and Medicaid Assistance Act (H.R. 1586) will keep 161,000 teachers in the classroom and provide $16.1 billion in health assistance for struggling states, in turn providing budget relief that will create or save 158,000 jobs in law enforcement and the private sector."This is a jobs bill that will keep 161,000 teachers - including 2,800 Minnesota jobs - in the classroom rather than in the unemployment line," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This is a bill that prevents thousands of first-responders who are protecting our communities today from losing their jobs tomorrow."Although Congress is currently in recess, Democratic leadership called the House of Representatives back into session to consider and vote on this emergency assistance package. Many U.S. states are fighting fiscal crises in their budgets, which are forcing drastic cutbacks in spending. As a result, thousands of these essential jobs are on the chopping block as well as Medicaid funding. Both of these elements put the welfare of millions of Americans and their communities at risk.While it is a spending bill, H.R. 1586 is already fully paid for, largely in part because it closes a loophole that encourages corporations to ship American jobs overseas. It also will reduce the federal budget deficit by $1.4 billion over the next decade."The $10 billion provided to keep 161,000 teachers working for our children should be a litmus test for voters," continued Congresswoman McCollum. "This is a vote for jobs and for our children's future. This is a vote that will expose Republicans as either defenders of jobs or as nothing more than a party that cuts taxes for the rich, protects Wall Street executives, and is willing to throw 161,000 public school teachers out on the street while our children suffer.""While paying for a bill that is projected to save or create nearly 320,000 jobs is not easy, I cannot hide my disappointment that nearly $12 billion in offsets were achieved by reducing benefits to food stamp recipients starting in 2014," concluded Congresswoman McCollum. "I hope the reductions in benefits, which are provided by the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, are restored and hungry families are not forced to bear the burden of providing fiscal relief to state governments."The U.S. economy is slowly recovering, but it is still in an extremely fragile state, and that is apparent in states' struggling budgets. In the last three months, state and local governments have been forced to eliminate 100,000 jobs in their efforts to reduce spending and balance budgets. Congress' passage of H.R. 1586 will alleviate some of this fiscal burden while putting Americans back to work.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
08.05.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) and local education officials will host a community policy forum on K-12 public education. This event will provide an opportunity for our education leaders to discuss some of the challenges facing Minnesota school districts and provide input on the reauthorization of Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA).Next week, Congresswoman McCollum will return to Washington, DC to vote in support of legislation that will provide some relief to Minnesota's state fiscal crisis. Minnesota is currently facing a deficit in the billions. If Congress passes this legislation, an estimated 140,000 teaching jobs nationwide - including 441 teaching jobs in Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District - will be saved. Additionally, local education agencies in Minnesota's Fourth Congressional District will receive nearly $30 million in funding.WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollumState Senator Sandy PappasState Senator Chuck WigerState Representative Carlos MarianiKitty Gogins, School Board Chair, Roseville Area SchoolsBruce Hagerty, Board Chair, East Metro Integration District 6067Laurie Tostrud, Board Vice Chair, West St. Paul-Mendota Heights-Eagan Area SchoolsJon Tynjala, School Board Chair, Mounds View Public SchoolsJay Haugen, Superintendent, West St. Paul-Mendota Heights-Eagan Area SchoolsPatty Heminover, Superintendent, South St. Paul Public SchoolsCharlie Kyte, Executive Director, Minnesota Association of School AdministratorsScott Croonquist, Executive Director, Association of Metropolitan School DistrictsMary Cathryn Ricker, President, St. Paul Federation of TeachersWHEN: 10:00 A.M.-11:30 A.M., Friday, August 6, 2010WHERE: Room 5, Minnesota State Office Building, 75 Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd., St. Paul MN 55155Media outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Maria Reppas at maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
08.03.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson, and federal and local government officials will host a press conference to discuss President Obama's America's Great Outdoors Initiative and showcase a model program that brings thousands of urban youth to experience the Mississippi River by canoe. The program has been highlighted by the First Lady's "Let's Move Outside Junior Ranger Program" campaign to introduce kids to a range of healthy outdoor activities.Last April, President Obama announced the creation of the America's Great Outdoors Initiative, which aims to promote and support innovative community-level efforts to conserve outdoor spaces and to reconnect Americans to the outdoors. Listening sessions from across the country have brought Americans from all walks of life together to discuss how best to preserve our common natural heritage. America's Great Outdoors aims to support a 21st century conservation agenda that builds on successes in communities across the country. The initiative will hopefully start a national dialogue about conservation that supports the efforts of private citizens and local communities.WHO: EPA Administrator Lisa JacksonCongresswoman Betty McCollumCongressman Keith EllisonWhite House Council on Environmental Quality Nancy SutleyDepartment of the Interior Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks Will ShafrothAgriculture Undersecretary Harris ShermanRepresentatives from the U.S. Army Corps of EngineersWHEN: 11:00 A.M., Wednesday, August 4WHERE: Harriet Island, 200 Dr. Justus Ohage Blvd., St. Paul, MN 55107Media outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Maria Reppas at maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
08.03.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Regional Director Cristal Thomas will host a roundtable discussion with local health clinic leaders to talk about the implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (P.L. 111-148).WHO: Congresswoman Betty McCollum, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Regional Director Cristal ThomasWHEN: 3:00-4:00 PM, Wednesday, August 4WHERE: West Side Community Health Services Community Room (Lower Level), 153 Cesar Chavez Street, St. Paul, MNMedia outlets interested in attending this event are asked to RSVP to Maria Reppas at maria.reppas@mail.house.govCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
07.30.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement regarding the ethics charges against Congressman Charles Rangel (D-NY):"Congressman Charlie Rangel has served our Nation honorably in the U.S. Army during the Korean War, earning a Purple Heart and the Bronze Star for valor, and for years in the U.S. House of Representatives. The ethics charges against Mr. Rangel are very serious. The ethics process call for the Members of the House to conduct a trial to judge Mr. Rangel's actions, according to the House standards of official conduct. I intend to fulfill my responsibility to be fair and to hold Mr. Rangel to the same standard of conduct to which all Members of the U.S. House of Representatives are accountable."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.27.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov 4th District Democrat Criticizes Republican Refusal to Fund the "Emergency" Needs Facing America's Families Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement today following her vote in opposition to the Fiscal Year 2010 Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act (H.R. 4899). H.R. 4899 passed the U.S. House of Representatives with 114 Democrats and Republicans opposing the war funding bill. Congresswoman McCollum issued the following statement: "Congress has a responsibility to ensure the economic security of the American people, as well as defend the national security of the nation. This appropriations bill does not adequately meet the needs of the American people, and I will not vote to pass it. "To my great dismay the funds previously passed by the House to address urgent domestic needs such as securing our borders, preventing 100,000 teachers from layoffs, creating youth summer jobs, and financing Pell grants for higher education have been stripped from this bill by the U.S. Senate. "After nine years of war and more than $300 billion of war funds added to our national debt, it is clear that an open ended U.S. military presence in Afghanistan is not acceptable to Afghans or Americans. I believe now is the time for a movement away from an expanded military presence in Afghanistan towards a strategic drawdown of U.S. troops and a refocus on a counter-terrorism strategy to prevent al-Qaeda from again taking root. "U.S. troops deserve a mission that is clear and achievable so they can return safely home with the knowledge that they have helped to keep America secure and allowed the Afghan people to make their own future. It is now time for the Afghan people to make that future." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
07.22.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govHouse Passes Extension of Benefits to Help Millions of Unemployed Workers Over Republican OppositionWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, following the House of Representatives' passage of unemployment benefits. The House passed this legislation (272-152), and President Obama immediately signed it into law. During consideration, Senate Republicans repeatedly blocked the extension of unemployment benefits.The failed policies of the Bush Administration created this recession, wiping out 8 million jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings and net worth. Extending unemployment benefits would restore assistance to an estimated 2.5 million struggling Americans until November 30, 2010."Since the onset of this devastating recession, middle class families have paid the price, especially the millions of Americans who lost their jobs through no fault of their own. Families hit by job losses have depended on unemployment benefits for simple necessities - such as food, clothing, medicine, housing, and other basics."While Americans search for jobs, unemployment benefits keep families from hardship and in some cases falling into absolute poverty. This safety net isn't designed to replace a steady paycheck but rather keep families afloat."Extending unemployment not only helps those out of work, but it will also stimulate the U.S. economy - an opportunity Congress can't afford to lose. Unemployment benefits created over one million jobs since the onset of the recession. According to the Economic Policy Institute, unemployment benefits added almost 2 percent to the GDP. Furthermore, for every dollar spent on unemployment benefits, $1.61 is created in economic activity."Republicans' refusal to help the unemployed Americans has only exacerbated the uncertainty for families struggling through no fault of their own. My Republican colleagues have been too busy playing politics to understand the pain and suffering families face when jobs and basic benefits are denied to them. Republicans aren't acting out of principle but rather playing politics with people's lives."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
07.21.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Today, U.S. Sens. Al Franken (D-Minn.) and Kit Bond (R-Mo.), and Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-Minn.) introduced the bi-partisan Thermal Renewable Energy and Efficiency Act. The Thermal Renewable Energy and Efficiency Act would offer incentives to increase the use of district energy and combined heat and power systems to heat and cool buildings throughout the country. Reps. Jay Inslee (D-Wash.) and Paul Tonko (D-N.Y.) are also original co-sponsors.Close to one-third of the total quantity of energy consumed in the U.S. is used for heating and cooling buildings and industrial processes. This represents an enormous opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, either through renewable thermal energy sources, combined heat and power, or other energy-efficient technologies."Minnesota uses a lot of thermal energy, whether for heating in the winter months or air conditioning during our hot summers," said Sen. Franken. "Expanding our use of renewable thermal energy, exemplified by the model district energy system we have in St. Paul, is one way to provide low, stable heating and cooling prices to consumers, dramatically increase our country's energy efficiency and speed up our transition away from coal and fossil fuels that cause global climate change.""In addition to promoting the many benefits that Missouri universities, hospitals and data centers enjoy when combining power and heat generation, I am pleased that this bill encourages increased use of renewable fuels like biomass of which we have an abundance in Missouri," said Sen. Bond."America's energy policy is broken. The U.S. has a proven clean, affordable, and secure energy technology that is available today if the federal government would pay attention," said Congresswoman McCollum. "The best kept secret in this country is district energy technology, and St. Paul's District Energy facility is a premier example of a system heating and cooling dozens of downtown office buildings. Congress and the Department of Energy need to wake up and start investing in this proven technology that will create clean energy jobs and reduce energy dependence."The Thermal Renewable Energy and Efficiency Act would specifically:• Create a renewable thermal energy production tax credit. Right now the current production tax credit (PTC) encourages the generation of electricity using certain renewable resources. By limiting the PTC to the generation of electricity only, opportunities are lost to expand the use of renewable resources to meet thermal energy needs (such as heating, air conditioning, domestic hot water, and process heating and cooling in industrial facilities). This bill expands PTC to the production of renewable thermal energy, providing an incentive to invest in these systems.• Expand tax exempt bonding. Currently, exempt facility bonds help finance certain capital costs of district energy systems and piping distribution systems, but aren't available for other system components. This bill would expand the use of tax exempt bonds to so that all of the capital costs associated with thermal energy production are eligible for tax exempt bonding.• Expand and reauthorize the Department of Energy's Energy Sustainability and Efficiency Grants for Institutions Program by: (1) raising the cap on grants to $20 million and the local cost-share requirement from 40 percent to 70 percent; (2) increasing caps on technical assistance grants; (3) increasing the authorized funding for the grant program to $500 million; (4) extending program eligibility to not-for-profit district energy systems; and (5) extending the grant and loan program through fiscal year 2015. These changes will expand the ability of this program to support larger, more efficient district energy and CHP systems; reduce greenhouse gas emissions; create jobs; increase grid reliability; and enhance energy security.A list of organizations that support the Thermal Renewable Energy and Efficiency act can be found hereCongresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.###
07.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govNew Website Gives Consumers Essential Health Care InformationWashington, DC - Today, Congresswoman McCollum (MN-04) announced the launch of HealthCare.gov - an online, comprehensive resource for health care. This new website contains clear and concise information to help guide small businesses and individuals through the complex process of shopping for health care coverage.HealthCare.gov was created as part of the new health care law signed last March by President Obama."From college students to seniors to small businesses to parents, HealthCare.gov gives all Minnesotans the critical information they need to take control of their health care and access quality, affordable coverage," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This is the first website to offer information on both public and private health care options, and it will help Minnesotans find insurance options and compare quality of care. Most importantly, HealthCare.gov informs all Americans on what this new law will mean for them."The most useful tool on HealthCare.gov is the insurance options finder. First, prospective health care insurance buyers supply a few pieces of background information - state of residence, age range, and current insurance status. Second, the insurance options finder will generate a list of both public and private health insurance options based on this information. Third, contact information for each insurance plan is displayed so consumers can reach out to potential providers. In October 2010, HealthCare.gov will also include pricing information.The health care insurance options finder has a database of over 3 billion scenarios with information from more than 1,000 insurance providers and over 5,500 insurance products. HealthCare.gov also has hundreds of pages with new content, including the health care law implementation timeline and individual state information for people with pre-existing conditions."Armed with critical information, consumers are now in a better position than they were a year ago to make well-informed decisions about their health care coverage," concluded Congresswoman McCollum. "The insurance options tool puts control back in the hands of Americans - where it should have been all along."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
07.01.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on Congress' passage of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (H.R. 4173). Passed by a vote of 237 to 192, this legislation puts a permanent end to taxpayer bailouts of the large financial institutions, establishes the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, and prevents the irresponsible and risky financial practices that caused the financial crisis - a crisis that resulted in the loss of 8 million jobs and $17 trillion in retirement savings and net worth."Rebuilding the American economy and putting people back to work requires a financial sector that is regulated and required to behave responsibly. The era of Wall Street gambling with the economic security of the American people is over, and a new age of financial accountability and transparency is about to begin. The passage of this legislation protects taxpayers and their retirement funds, college accounts, and homes from risky decisions by CEOs, lenders, and speculators. This is an excellent bill which needs to become the law."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
06.24.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov WASHINGTON, D.C. - U.S. Sens. Amy Klobuchar and Al Franken (D-Minn.), and Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.) announce two grants totaling $420,000 to help reintegrate Minnesota's homeless veterans into the workforce. The grants are being awarded under the U.S. Department of Labor's Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program. "There isn't a waiting line when our soldiers sign up for service, and there shouldn't be one when they come home and need a job," Sen. Klobuchar said. "Our troops have valuable skills, and job training programs like these help homeless veterans transition those skills and experiences into the civilian workforce." "No veteran should go homeless. Our soldiers are prepared to make the ultimate sacrifice in order to maintain the freedoms we cherish as Minnesotans. It's imperative that we do everything we can to ensure their smooth reentry, and that means jobs to come home to," said Sen. Franken. "This funding has the potential to get our veterans off the street and into the jobs they need and deserve." Sen. Franken visited the Minnesota Assistance Council for Veteran's (MACV) Building 47 at the Minneapolis Veteran's Affairs campus earlier this month where he met with MACV Executive Director Kathleen Vitalis and Regional Director Jimmy Collier to discuss the organization and the plight of homeless veterans. "Minnesota veterans and their families have endured multiple and extended deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan," said Congresswoman McCollum. "These veterans are facing unique needs, including an increasing number of women veterans with young children who are experiencing homelessness and unemployment. This new funding will help Minnesota veterans who are in need get the assistance they deserve." Funds were awarded to agencies that are familiar with the areas and populations to be served. The selected agencies have demonstrated that they can administer programs effectively and produce positive results. Homeless veterans may receive occupational, classroom, and on -the-job training, as well as job search and placement assistance, including follow-up services. The Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program is the only federal program that focuses exclusively on employment of veterans who are homeless. The below agencies received funding: • New Minnesota Assistance Council for Veterans, St. Paul $120,000 • 2nd Minnesota Assistance Council for Veterans, St. Paul , $300,000 More information on the unemployment and re-employment programs for veterans can be found on the Department of Labor's website. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.24.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC – Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement upon passage of the DISCLOSE Act (H.R. 5175) by the U.S. House of Representatives. The legislation passed the House today by a vote of 219-206. Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) authored H.R. 5175 to require special interest groups to disclose their participation in American elections in response to the Supreme Court’s decision on Citizens United vs. the Federal Election Commission (FEC), which allows for unlimited corporate spending in federal elections. “This legislation protects our democracy and the integrity of our elections from the corrupting influence of unrestricted and unlimited corporate campaign money. Corporate CEOs who want to influence the outcome of elections will need to show their faces to the public and put their corporations’ reputations on the line,” said McCollum. “There should never be a veil of secrecy in an open democracy, which is why full disclosure of all special interest money in federal elections is need.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the U.S. House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.24.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on President Obama's decision to appoint General David Petraeus to lead U.S. forces in Afghanistan."I support President Obama's decision. General Petraeus is an extremely capable military leader. I have full confidence in his ability to execute the President's strategy in Afghanistan."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
06.23.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) joined 23 other Members of Congress in support of legislation that would give subpoena power to the National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling (H.R. 5481). The power to issue subpoenas would be part of the Commission's investigation. The ability to issue subpoenas will help the Commission get a full and accurate accounting of what caused the BP oil rig explosion and subsequent oil spill. "The National Commission needs to hold BP and all responsible parties accountable," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Granting the Commission the power to subpoena will allow a more thorough and transparent investigation into this disaster." The National Commission, which is chaired by former Senator Bob Graham (D-FL) and former EPA Administrator Bill Reilly (1989-1992), is expected to meet for the first time very soon to hold public hearings. It will also request information from government agencies, nonprofit organizations, experts in the oil and gas industries, and the companies in question - BP, Transocean, Halliburton, and others. "Gulf Coast residents as well as the rest of the American people deserve answers as to why our shores and coastal wildlife are covered in oil," continued Congresswoman McCollum. "As the effects of the United States' worst environmental disaster ever become more and more complex, the government's response must be more aggressive." Since the explosion on April 20, BP's offshore oil rig has leaked an estimated 100 million gallons of oil. The oil spill has already ravaged wetlands, killed wildlife, crippled the local fishing industry, and destroyed tourism in the Gulf of Mexico area. The long-term environmental impacts of this disaster are devastating. H.R. 5481 was spearheaded by Congresswoman Lois Capps (CA-23) and Congressman Edward Markey (MA-07). It passed in the House of Representatives with an overwhelming majority. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
06.17.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding a Rwandan High Court's decision to grant St. Paul resident Professor Peter Erlinder bail based on concerns for his health. He will be able to return to the United States once the required paperwork has been filed."The Rwandan High Court's decision to grant Professor Erlinder bail is the first good news we've had since this ordeal began last month. Although there is remaining paperwork that must be completed, I look forward to seeing Professor Erlinder reunited with his family here in Minnesota. I will continue to monitor this situation until Professor Erlinder has safely returned to the United States."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
06.16.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - At a press conference on Capitol Hill today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) announced the introduction of her groundbreaking legislation, the Nonprofit Sector and Community Solutions Act (H.R. 5533). This bill is one of the first federal initiatives to address the nonprofit sector as a whole. It will take the first steps toward integrating the nonprofit sector into the federal policymaking process by establishing formal structures in Congress and federal administrative agencies focused on the success of nonprofits."As powerful and productive as nonprofit organizations are, their needs are not being addressed by Congress or the Administration. That must change," said Congresswoman McCollum. "This legislation is the beginning of a new, positive conversation about the nonprofit sector in Washington and across the country. If Congress can work with leaders in the nonprofit and foundation communities we can build a stronger nonprofit sector, craft smarter federal policy, and create more vibrant communities in every state."H.R. 5533 will create a bipartisan "United States Council on Nonprofit Organizations and Community Solutions," comprised of leaders from nonprofits, foundations, businesses, and all levels of government to identify high-priority issues and make formal recommendations to Congress and the Administration. The legislation will also establish the "Interagency Working Group on Nonprofit Organizations and the Federal Government" to improve policy coordination among agencies in their dealings with nonprofit organizations to enhance outcomes and accountability. Finally, the Nonprofit Sector and Community Solutions Act would assign the Department of Commerce the task of compiling data on nonprofits and develop metrics for performance, establish reporting requirements, and expand information so Congress can make well-informed policy decisions on nonprofit legislation.The U.S. nonprofit sector is critical to our nation's economy and well-being. In 2008, as much as 5 percent of the U.S. GDP was produced by the nonprofit sector, according to the Government Accountability Office. The Congressional Research Service estimates that nearly 10 percent of the domestic workforce is employed by the nonprofit sector. That's roughly the same number of Americans who work in manufacturing. Furthermore, a significant portion of federal, state, and local government programs require a nonprofit role in their implementation.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
06.09.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - On Tuesday, June 8, 2010, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) and Congressman Keith Ellison (MN-05) introduced legislation in the U.S. House of Representatives, H.Res.1426, requesting that the Rwandan government release Peter Erlinder from prison so he may immediately return to the United States. Congresswoman McCollum believes his release is important to ongoing positive U.S.-Rwandan relations.The legislation has been referred to the U.S. House Committee on Foreign Affairs."This legislation is meant to send a signal to the Rwandan government that the immediate release of Professor Erlinder can prevent this unfortunate incident from escalating into an impasse in relations between our two countries," said Congresswoman McCollum. "My staff and I have made multiple attempts to reach the Rwandan Ambassador with no response yet. Now I will be reaching out to my Congressional colleagues to urge them to send a signal to Rwanda to immediately release Professor Erlinder.""Professor Erlinder is being held without access to his family and I have serious concerns regarding his basic rights as an American citizen held in Rwanda," said Congressman Ellison. "This resolution calls for Professor Erlinder to be released immediately on humanitarian grounds."A resident of St. Paul, Minnesota, Professor Erlinder is a human rights attorney and instructor at the William Mitchell College of Law. Last month, he was arrested in Rwanda on charges of denying the 1994 genocide. Initially, he traveled to the country to defend presidential candidate Victoire Ingabire, who was also arrested on suspicion of genocide denial. Professor Erlinder pleaded not guilty, but the court denied him bail.Since Professor Erlinder's arrest, Congresswoman McCollum and her staff have been working with the State Department, the Rwandan Embassy in Washington, DC, and the U.S. Embassy in Rwanda to ensure Professor Erlinder's safety and eventual release.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
06.01.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to Israel's raid on a flotilla that was delivering tons of humanitarian supplies for Gaza."While the U.S. supports Israel's security, it is impossible to comprehend or make excuses for Israel's decision to confront and kill civilian activists. This unnecessary and preventable incident demands a comprehensive investigation by the international community fully supported by the United States."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.28.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govNational Farm to School Act of 2010 (H.R. 5456) Helps Link School Districts to Local FarmersWashington, DC - Aiming to provide healthy, fresh meals to school children and help boost income for family farmers, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN), Congressman Tom Latham (R-IA), and Congressman Bobby Scott (D-VA) have introduced the National Farm to School Act of 2010 (H.R. 5456) along with 22 original cosponsors. This bipartisan legislation will increase the consumption of fresh, local food in schools across the country by helping to connect school food service providers with local farmers."The National Farm to School Act is about making a solid connection between schoolchildren and their parents and small farmers by providing healthier, nutritious food in our schools," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Studies indicate that farm to school programs increase students' average consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables by one or more servings a day. Those studies also show that students actually prefer these healthier meals. Schools in St. Paul are already national leaders in establishing a successful farm to school program. This bill will assist schools that want to include locally-grown food into their school lunch programs."Farm to school programs have taken off in popularity in Minnesota. Sixty-nine school districts now have programs, up from 30 school districts in 2008. This is a Minnesota model that's ready to go nationwide. United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Deputy Secretary Kathleen Merrigan visited Minnesota in November 2009 to recognize our leadership in this national trend. St. Paul Public Schools alone purchased 110,000 pounds of locally grown produce in just the first six weeks of the 2009-2010 school year - the markets created by school districts can be a big boost to small family farmers. Minnesota students are now eating locally-grown apples and corn on the cob. Other programs also serve potatoes, carrots, onions, cabbage, broccoli, cauliflower, bison, and beans.H.R. 5456 will: authorize a USDA competitive matching grant program of up to $100,000 to support planning, implementation, and training and technical assistance for communities to implement farm to school programs; direct the USDA to identify existing federal programs that can be used to facilitate participation of small- and medium-sized farmers in farm to school programs; and create an online exchange so that data on farm to school programs is widely available and best practices can be shared nationwide. It addresses both the demand and supply issues central to implementing a successful farm to school program.Many U.S. schools would like to incorporate fresh, local food into their school meals, however they face start-up funding, planning, implementation, and technical capacity barriers. By offering federal support, school districts and area farmers will have the support they need to develop farm to school programs.Jean Ronnei, Director of Nutrition & Commercial Services at St. Paul Public Schools, said, "We believe that Farm to School is a great way to introduce kids to healthy foods and eating habits while supporting our neighboring farmers and the local economy. We have benefitted greatly from a foundation grant that helped us expand the use of local, sustainably grown and healthier foods. Many schools nationwide will be able to benefit from this same assistance with the National Farm to School Act. That's good for kids, farmers and our community. "Jackie Hoch, a member of the Land Stewardship Project and a co-owner of Hoch Orchard in La Crescent, Minn., which provides apples to a local school, said, "We applaud Congresswoman McCollum for introducing this bill that will help farmers access local school markets. Interest and demand in local foods is growing, but the next step, consistent institutional buying of local food, takes more effort and energy to figure out. This federal support for farm to school efforts will plant the seed that could grow and develop into real prosperity for local farmers while delivering real benefits for our nation's children."Original cosponsors include Representatives Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Russ Carnahan (D-MO), Joe Courtney (D-CT), Keith Ellison (D-MN), Al Green (D-TX), Raul Grijalva (D-AZ), Rush Holt (D-NJ), Steve Kagen (D-WI), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), Ron Kind (D-WI), Dave Loebsack (D-IA), Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Mike Michaud (D-ME), Dennis Moore (D-KS), Jim Moran (D-VA), Tom Perriello (D-VA), Chellie Pingree (D-ME), Adam Putnam (R-FL), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), Heath Shuler (D-NC), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Tim Walz (D-MN).Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.28.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to Congress' repeal of the Pentagon's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy. The repeal finally put an end to the military's process of systemic discrimination against individuals who are openly gay and lesbian.On May 27, 2010, when the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" vote was announced in the House chamber, Congresswoman McCollum presided as Speaker pro tempore in the House of Representatives."Discrimination is wrong and the U.S. House finally voted to repeal discrimination against a group of courageous Americans - men and women who proudly serve in the Armed Forces and defend our freedoms. For thousands of gay and lesbian veterans who were discharged from the military over the years, Congress has acted too late. Nonetheless I feel a debt of gratitude and honor for their service. Looking forward, I know a new generation of committed and patriotic gay and lesbian Americans will have the opportunity to serve our country proudly and openly."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.18.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - This week, Representatives Betty McCollum (MN-D) and James Oberstar (MN-D) and Senator Al Franken (MN-D) sent a letter President Barack Obama in support of the National Mediation Board's (NMB) decision to recognize a simple majority in the airline and rail industry representation elections. Prior to this rule-making, non-voting workers were counted as "no" votes in these organizing elections. The latest decision from the NMB ensures that "yes" votes are counted as "yes," "no" votes are counted as "no," and non-voting employees are not counted. "We must ensure that representative elections follow a fair process where all voting participants are counted," said Representative McCollum. "Designating non-voting participants as ‘no' votes is anti-democratic. I strongly urge the Obama Administration to defend this rule since supporters of an anti-democratic organizing process have filed a lawsuit." "We are adhering to a simple democratic concept, you count the votes cast and the side with the majority wins," said Representative Oberstar. "Counting non-voters as "no" votes is a way to stack the deck against efforts to unionize a workplace and is not an appropriate way to run a free and fair election." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
05.13.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding her support of BP Deepwater Horizon Disaster Inquiry Commission Act of 2010 (H.R. 5241). This legislation establishes an independent, nonpartisan commission to investigate the Gulf Oil Spill Disaster. Millions of gallons of oil from a British Petroleum (BP) rig have been spewing into the Gulf of Mexico since April 20. The disaster is ravaging aquatic life and slowly destroying local businesses with no end in sight."As a result of no industry regulation and oversight, the ‘Drill Baby Drill' advocates are now witnessing the ‘Spill Baby Spill' reality - poisoned ocean waters, crippled businesses, and several rig workers injured and killed. BP and its contractors are fully responsible for this disaster. Now we need to get to the bottom of what caused this catastrophe and how we can prevent it from ever happening again."The BP Deepwater Horizon Disaster Inquiry Commission Act of 2010, which I fully support, will finally put a stop to industries running amok without regard to public health, the environment, and the economy - all in the name of quick profits. By establishing a commission to examine the causes and the potential for such disasters to happen again, Congress will be better informed of the risks offshore drilling."As the oil spill grows bigger and bigger every day, so does government's responsibility to work aggressively and without hesitation to limit environmental and economic damage. We cannot afford to wait a day longer."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.13.2010	McCollum Applauds Funding for Cash-Strapped Public SchoolsContact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Today, Secretary of Education Arne Duncan announced that Minnesota will receive $220,403,088 in additional funds as part of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5). Welcoming the announcement, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) emphasized the difference that these funds will make in Minnesota's education system by improving the quality of education in our schools."This announcement could not have come at a better time. Our public schools are struggling with round after round of state and local cuts," said Congresswoman McCollum. "These additional federal funds will protect the quality of our students' education by helping to keep teachers in our classrooms while the state of Minnesota makes difficult decisions on school funding. I urge Governor Pawlenty to spend all of this funding for direct student services only, not on bureaucracies or testing companies. During these hard economic times, meeting the needs of our children must be the top priority.""This funding is another example of how the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act - passed without one Republican vote - is both saving and creating jobs in Minnesota and meeting the needs of our children," said Congresswoman McCollum. "President Obama and Democrats in Congress are going to keep working until a full economic recovery reaches every community."Since it was signed into law last year, Minnesota has received $1.3 billion from the Recovery Act because of efforts of the Obama Administration and Congress to get the country back on track. Giving a boost to Minnesota's education system, these funds created over 6,000 jobs in the education sector.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.07.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Labor's announcement that the economy gained 290,000 jobs in April - 231,000 of them in the private sector. This data represents the largest number of new jobs in four years and the fourth consecutive month of job growth. "The addition of 290,000 jobs to our nation's economy is very good news. Democrats are making job creation a top priority, and we are seeing results. "Regarding the increase in unemployment, two long years of recession fueled significant job losses. The unemployment numbers reflect the millions of Americans who want to go back to work but simply do not yet have the opportunity. Democrats are committed to fighting unemployment and getting America back to work. "We are putting our nation's economy back on track - unfortunately without the Republicans' help - after the disastrous policies of the previous administration. During the last three months of the Bush Administration, an average 726,000 jobs were lost. Under President Obama's leadership in the last three months, an average 186,000 jobs were created." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.06.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Today, Senator Amy Klobuchar, Senator Al Franken, Representative Tim Walz, Representative Jim Oberstar, and Representative Betty McCollum announced Minnesota will receive $5.5 million through the Recovery Act to provide reemployment services like job training and career counseling to Minnesotans looking for work."Reemployment services provide critical support to Americans who are just looking to support their families in this tough economy," Sen. Klobuchar said. "Counties across Minnesota will now be able to offer vital training and career counseling that will boost the competitiveness of our workforce and help put America back to work.""I've always said that there's no such thing as a jobless recovery," said Sen. Franken. "This money will help train and rehabilitate thousands of Minnesotans, giving them the skills and support they need to get back to work and back to providing for their families.""Minnesotans need jobs to raise a family on and to remain competitive, our state needs highly trained workers ready to lead our nation back to economic prosperity," said Rep. Walz. "This funding will help put Minnesotans back to work, in good-paying jobs that will rebuild our economy.""This is the kind of investment that gives people the opportunity to stop collecting an unemployment check and start collecting a paycheck," said Congressman Jim Oberstar. "This gives the training they need to compete in a tight job market.""This grant is a lifesaver for dislocated workers in Minnesota," said Congresswoman McCollum. "It will provide training for thousands of Minnesotans as our nation's economy climbs out of this deep recession."The National Emergency Grant (NEG) that is being awarded to Minnesota will continue to provide reemployment services to participants in 11 workforce service areas who are currently receiving intensive services and/or training, as well as to serve those on waiting lists as a result of unprecedented demand for WIA Dislocated Worker services; about 2,721 workers in total. These services may include skills assessment, basic skills training, individual career counseling and occupational skills training.This funding has been designated for the following communities: The counties of Aitkin, Anoka, Becker, Beltrami, Benton, Big Stone, Carlton, Carver, Cass, Chippewa, Clay, Clearwater, Cook, Cottonwood, Crow Wing, Dakota, Dodge, Douglas, Fillmore, Freeborn, Goodhue, Grant, Hennepin, Houston, Hubbard, Itasca, Jackson, Koochiching, Lac Qui Parle, Lake, Lake of the Woods, Lincoln, Lyon, Mahnomen, Morrison, Mower, Murray, Nobles, Olmsted, Otter Tail, Pipestone, Pope, Ramsey, Redwood, Rice, Rock, Scott, St. Louis, Steele, Sterns, Stevens, Swift, Todd, Traverse, Wabasha, Wadena, Washington, Wilkin, Winona, and Yellow Medicine.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.05.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding Congressman David Obey's retirement."David Obey is an American hero. He is a public servant who has made life better for millions of his fellow citizens - working people, students, the poor, and children. His honorable, passionate, and effective public service has made this a better, more just country. I feel privileged to call David a friend, and I am grateful for his mentorship. May the coming years bless David and Joan with joy and lots of time with their grandchildren."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
05.03.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov St. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to the murder of Sgt. Joseph Bergeron of the Maplewood Police Department. While responding to report of a carjacking, Sgt. Bergeron was shot to death during the early morning hours of Saturday, May 1. One suspect in the shooting was killed while attacking St. Paul police officer David Longbehn; the other suspect has been apprehended. "Sgt. Joseph Bergeron was a public servant and a peace officer who dedicated his entire life to keeping the citizens of our community safe. His death in the line of duty is a tragedy for his fellow law enforcement officers, the Maplewood community, and all of Minnesota. I want to personally extend my condolences to Sgt. Bergeron's wife and daughters, along with all of the family members and friends who loved him. "Every peace officer serving in Minnesota or anywhere knows that wearing a uniform carries a special responsibility along with risk. On Saturday Sgt. Bergeron gave his life while working to keep us safe and that is a heroic sacrifice that shall always be honored. "Maplewood Mayor Will Rossbach, the Maplewood Police Department, the City Council, and all residents have my full support during this very sad time. "I would also like to express my sincere appreciation for the heroic professionalism of Officer David Longbehn of the St. Paul Police Department. Despite being viciously attacked Officer Longbehn protected himself and the community through his courageous actions. I wish Officer Longbehn a full recovery from his injuries and a grateful community thanks him for his service." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
04.22.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding her vote in support of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act. This legislation will provide support to family and others who care for disabled, ill, or injured veterans; enhance health services for 1.8 million women veterans, including care for newborns; expand mental health services for veterans and health care access for veteran in rural areas; and prohibit copayments for veterans who are catastrophically disabled."Every day, the men and women in the military risk their lives to serve and protect our country. After they return home, our armed forces and their families deserve the best services the government can offer," said Congresswoman McCollum. "The Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act ensures all our veterans will have full access to the quality health care they deserve." Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.21.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Today, the official formation of the Quality Care Coalition was announced by Representatives Betty McCollum (D-Minn), Bruce Braley (D-Ia.), Jay Inslee (D-Wash.), and Ron Kind (D-Wis.). The Quality Care Coalition will provide Members of Congress a forum to transform the health care system to reward value in care and make evidence-based, quality care the standard regardless of location in the United States. The Coalition will also continue to address geographic variation in Medicare reimbursement for seniors.During health care reform negotiations, a group of over 30 Members of Congress - representing areas penalized by the current Medicare payment system - came together to achieve a historic agreement with the Obama Administration to change the way Medicare reimburses.Department of Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius will convene the National Summit on Geographic Variation, Cost, Access, and Value in Health Care to further explore and develop solutions to the Medicare geographic disparity issue later this year."Medicare is responsible for providing health care to 45 million Americans," said Rep. McCollum. "My commitment is to ensure that Medicare patients all across America receive high-quality health care and improve patient outcomes. This Coalition will continue to work with Members of Congress and Obama Administration to prioritize the best value in health care delivery.""Late at night in the days leading up to this spring's historic health care vote, the Quality Care Coalition secured critical changes to the health care bill that have the potential to revolutionize the way Medicare does business," Rep. Braley said. "The Quality Care Coalition will play a critical role in making sure the Obama Administration continues working toward a reimbursement model that ends geographic disparities and finally rewards doctors for providing high-quality care, rather than performing unnecessary procedures.""Changing the health care system to lower costs and improve care hasn't been easy nor is it finished," said Rep. Jay Inslee. "Working together we were able to create solutions that will reorganize the way we pay for health care, rewarding quality of outcomes rather than just quantity of services. The Quality Care Coalition will continue to be a leading voice in Congress on addressing bloated health care spending and bending the cost curve, in order to ensure better patient outcomes and economic viability. Forming this Coalition is our way of saying quality care is a long term effort, and we are in it for the long haul.""A value-based reimbursement system benefits all states and all regions," said Rep. Kind. "As the Quality Care Coalition, we've begun to reform our health care system in to one that puts quality before quantity, keeps our best interest in mind, and keeps costs under control. We've taken significant strides to change the way we pay for health care in this country, but there is more work to be done in promoting quality and value in our Medicare system. I am pleased to be part of this group and look forward to working with my colleagues to make sure implementation of the health care reform bill achieves the objectives we fought so hard to include."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.16.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSt. Paul, MN - Today, Rep. Betty McCollum (DFL-MN04) responded to Rep. Michele Bachmann's (R-MN06) ongoing anti-government campaign by calling it "irresponsible" and again warned that this type of harsh and exaggerated political rhetoric can inspire violent political extremists. Yesterday, while addressing a Tea Party protest near the U.S. Capitol, Bachmann smeared President Obama and his administration by referring to them as "gangster government."McCollum said of Bachmann's inflammatory remarks, "With hate groups and violent anti-government militias on the rise in this country elected leaders must be mindful of the potential of their words to inspire violence. Constructive, passionate political debate is expected in our democracy, but harsh, dangerous name-calling that vilifies the President or Members of Congress is irresponsible." McCollum added, "We must not ignore that the Oklahoma City bombing was an act of political violence perpetrated by deranged, anti-government extremists. It's much too late after a bomb goes off to start condemning hate-inspired, violent rhetoric."Bachman told a crowd of anti-government Tea Party protesters, "We're on to them; we're on to this gangster government." She added, "I'd say it's time for these little piggies to go home." Bachmann's rhetoric elicited a harsh rebuke from President Bill Clinton. While speaking on the subject of the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, Clinton cautioned that attempts to incite government opposition can provoke destructive consequences and responded to Bachmann by saying, "They are not gangsters. They were elected."Yesterday's inflammatory comments from Congresswoman Bachmann were only the latest in a series of disturbing calls to action.• "I want people in Minnesota armed and dangerous on this issue of the energy tax because we need to fight back."• "[Health care reform] cannot pass. What we have to do today is make a covenant, to slit our wrists, be blood brothers on this thing. This will not pass. We will do whatever it takes to make sure this doesn't pass."Rep. Bachmann's comments come on the heels of Rep. McCollum's statement this week on the floor of the House of Representatives, which asked Members of Congress to stop using specific rhetoric that could incite and fuel violence from anti-government extremists.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.13.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement on the House floor, regarding H.Res. 1206. This resolution commemorates the victims who died in the bombing of the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma on April 19, 1995."Madam Speaker, today I rise to remember the victims of the 1995 terrorist attack in Oklahoma City that killed 168 people. This act of American terrorism was committed by a man who viewed the federal government as such a threat that it justified mass murder."I applaud my colleague from Oklahoma for her resolution because it serves as a reminder that right-wing, anti-government extremist groups are on the rise today."Only two weeks ago members of a so-called Christian militia in Michigan were arrested by the FBI for plotting to kill law enforcement officers in the hopes of inciting ananti-government uprising."A national civil rights organization has documented a growing number of hate groups in America and states they are ‘driven largely by an angry backlash against non-white immigration ... the economic meltdown, and the climb to power of an African American president.'"Or, in one word - racism."Mark Potok of the Southern Poverty Law Center states, ‘Individuals associated with the Patriot movement during its 1990s heyday produced an enormous amount of violence, most dramatically the Oklahoma City bombing...'"Today, Mr. Potok states, ‘as the movement has exploded, so has the reach of its ideas,aided and abetted by commentators and politicians...'"Only last month a Fox News commentator, with Members of Congress next to him, rallied a Tea Party crowd by disparaging Congress and calling the crowd ‘all these Tim McVeigh wannabes here' to the crowds cheers and applause."When Members of Congress compare health care legislation to ‘government tyranny,' ‘socialism,' or ‘totalitarianism' - in the hopes of scoring political points is like pouring gas on the fire of extremism."The Members of this House Democrats and Republicans - have a duty and an obligation to end the dangerous name-calling that can only inspire the extremist militias and phony patriots."In the most free, prosperous and greatest democracy on earth it is time to return to a civil, decent debate of public policy."I don't want another ‘Oklahoma City' to ever take place again."Just as we would not give aid and comfort to al-Qaeda, let us not allow the words of elected leaders give comfortable excuses to extremists bent on violence."Words have power for both good and evil. I implore my colleagues to temper their rhetoric and not allow the words of a Member of Congress to be used by any violent militia or hate filled phony-patriots to perpetrate violence."The victims of the Oklahoma City bombing were women at work, men waiting in line for government services, and children in a day care center. Families were torn apart and struggled to heal. A community was devastated but is again filled with hope and memories."I hope with this resolution every Member of Congress will reflect upon the victims of Oklahoma City as well as our duty as elected federal leaders in a proud and free country."Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to revise and extend my remarks, and I yield back my time."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.09.2010	Event Brings Leaders to Local Schools as Guest Teachers Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govMINNEAPOLIS, April 8, 2010-Three of the state's U.S. representatives highlighted the importance of hard work and determination to local students while serving as guest teachers during Teach For America Week, which concluded today. Congressman Keith Ellison, D-5th District, addressed students of English as a second language at Wellstone International High School; Congressman Erik Paulsen, R-3rd District, taught a lesson to seventh grade English students at Brooklyn Center High School; and Congresswoman Betty McCollum, D-4th District, engaged with kindergarten and fourth grade students at College Prep Elementary in St. Paul.Teach For America recruits, trains, and supports top college graduates who commit to teach for two years in urban and rural public schools. Teach For America Week draws community leaders nationwide to support educational excellence for all children. These volunteers visit the classrooms of Teach For America teachers, also known as corps members, and teach lessons based on their experience in business, politics, and beyond. An annual event since 1997, Teach For America Week will take place in 30 regions, including the Twin Cities, throughout 2010."It was a great honor to participate in Teach For America Week and see this program in action in the 3rd District. Educating our children is critically important to the future of our communities, state, and nation, and I enjoyed speaking to the students and educators at Brooklyn Center High School who are working to build a better future every day," Congressman Paulsen said."Providing every child a quality education is a great investment in Minnesota's future. To make that possible, we need effective, passionate teachers," Congresswoman McCollum said. "Teach For America has been placing great teachers in classrooms where their skills are needed the most. There is no doubt that Teach For America corps members are making a positive impact on our schools and on the lives of the students they teach."Teach For America's network includes 7,300 corps members teaching in 35 regions and a national force of 17,000 alumni at the forefront of efforts to end educational inequity."Teach For America is grateful for the support of these congressional leaders and excited to invite them into the classrooms of our corps members," said Daniel Sellers, executive director of Teach For America in the Twin Cities. "I appreciate their commitment to ensuring that the most effective teachers are reaching students in our most challenging schools so that all Minnesota students receive a world-class education."During Teach For America's charter year in the Twin Cities, 42 corps members are reaching approximately 2,500 students in under-resourced schools, while some 170 alumni are working from every sector to level the playing field for students and families in low-income communities.Teach For America received a record-setting number of applications for the 2010 corps, including nearly 900 from across Minnesota. More than 46,000 individuals applied in total, marking the third consecutive year that application numbers increased by more than 30 percent. More than 1 in 5 of these applicants majored or minored in mathematics, science, engineering, or finance, subject areas that are typically in high demand among classroom teachers.A growing body of rigorous research shows that Teach For America corps members are having a positive impact on student achievement and the schools where they teach. A 2008 Urban Institute study updated last year found that corps members have a positive effect on student achievement relative to other teachers, including experienced teachers, traditionally prepared teachers, and those fully certified in their field. An earlier study by Mathematica Policy Research found that students of corps members make 10 percent more progress in a year in math than is typically expected and slightly exceed the normal expectation for progress in reading.About Teach For America and Teach For America WeekTeach For America is the national corps of outstanding recent college graduates who commit to teach for two years in urban and rural public schools and become lifelong leaders in expanding educational opportunity. Teach For America Week is the annual, nationwide event in which guest teachers engage students from some of our nation's lowest-income communities and inspire them to pursue academic success. For more information, visit www.teachforamerica.org.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####Contact: Rebecca NealeTeach For America202-906-9207 rebecca.neale@teachforamerica.org
04.09.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSaint Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement upon learning of Congressman Bart Stupak's (D-MI) decision to retire from Congress. Serving on the House Energy & Commerce Committee, Congressman Stupak tackled many policy issues, including health care, energy, environment, consumer protection, interstate commerce, and telecommunications."With the announcement of his retirement, my friend and colleague, Bart Stupak will be leaving Congress after 18 years of tenacious, dignified, and honorable service to our Nation and the families of Michigan's Upper Peninsula. I will miss Bart's leadership on protecting the Great Lakes and his tireless determination to protect consumers and fight for working families. I wish Bart and his wife, Laurie, much-deserved rest and happiness."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.08.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement, regarding her support of the Great Lakes Ecosystem Protection Act of 2010 (H.R. 4755). This legislation protects and preserves the Great Lakes. Congressman Vernon Ehlers (R-MI) introduced H.R. 4755 on March 4, 2010, and 21 cosponsors have already signed on to the legislation."Lake Superior is a priceless natural resource for Minnesotans, and it needs to be protected. The Great Lakes Ecosystem Protection Act of 2010 is an important piece of legislation that will finally invest the funds needed to preserve wildlife habitats, improve water quality, and maintain shipping commerce in all the Great Lakes. Future generations deserve to be able to enjoy these lakes so we must invest now. I'm proud to join my Michigan colleague, Rep. Ehlers, in this bipartisan effort to protect one of our nation's finest treasures."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
04.02.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to the Department of Labor's announcement that the economy gained 162,000 jobs in March 2010."The latest development on jobs is certainly hopeful, and this is good news for our economy. This is the largest job gain in a single month in the past three years. Although these are positive results, we must do better, especially for many Minnesotans who are still struggling to find work. By continuing to build on the successes of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, we can help fight rampant unemployment and create hundreds of thousands of jobs."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
03.30.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) issued the following statement in response to President Obama signing the health care and student loan reconciliation legislation into law.The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) estimates that the new health care reform will provide coverage to 32 million more Americans. The CBO also estimates that health care reform will reduce the national deficit by $143 billion over the next ten years with $1.2 trillion in additional deficit reduction in the following decade. The savings will go towards expanding the Federal Pell Grant Program that provides grants to low-income students so they will be able to continue their education at colleges and universities.Reconciliation legislation will save $68 billion for college affordability and deficit reduction over the next 11 years, according to the CBO."The positive results of Democrats acting to pass health care reform keep getting better and better," said Congresswoman McCollum. "Not only will this package help millions of struggling Americans get health insurance, but our children and future generations will have a better chance of going to college without fear of financial burdens. With the government being the primary lender to college students, instead of banks, no longer will debt-ridden college students be hit by randomly-imposed, hidden fees."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
03.25.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govUrges Bipartisan Response to Opponents of Health Care Reform Who Have Crossed the LineWashington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) today condemned acts of violence and repeated threats directed at Members of Congress and their offices. Since the passage of health care reform legislation by the U.S. House on Sunday night, acts of vandalism were committed against Democratic congressional offices in Arizona and New York. Threats of intimidation and violence have been received by numerous congressional offices, including Congresswoman McCollum's. The following are excerpts from a letter received in Congresswoman McCollum's office today in which a shredded American flag was sent with the letter:Here's how I will do my part. I will fight you with all my might. I will hound you. I will intimidate you and your family. I will scream at you. I will rewrite your history. I will physically out strong-arm you. I will shame you, your family and your friends. I will send you signs exclaiming what I think of you.... I will call you what you are; [expletives]. Whatever it takes and as long as it takes. It will never stop until you are gone!Congresswoman McCollum responded:"I will not back down in the face of attacks, threats, and violence. I do not regret my vote, and I will proudly stand in the face of opposition and defend my support of health care reform."This has gone beyond freedom of speech. This has gone to direct intimidation with intent to harm, and that is criminal action. The Republican and Democratic leadership need to stand together with one bipartisan voice and condemn these acts of vigilantism. The perpetrators of these acts are trying to intimidate Members of Congress, their families, and Congressional staff."In our democracy, no one has the right to threaten harm. This behavior is not being democratic. This is not being patriotic. This is vigilantism, and it will not be tolerated."Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
03.24.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov McCollum Supports Summer Jobs Legislation Washington, DC – The following is a statement from Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), announcing her support of the Disaster Relief and Summer Jobs Act (H.R. 4899). “Thousands of young people in Minnesota are getting hit hard by unemployment in this recession. This legislation will help alleviate that burden and fight youth unemployment by creating an additional 300,000 summer jobs nationwide. I strongly support passage of the summer jobs legislation, and I urge my colleagues to do the same. ” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.24.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov History Is Made! Major Health Insurance Reform for the American People Health care in America will be transformed to the benefit of patients and taxpayers Washington, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-St. Paul) and House Democrats tonight passed a historic health reform bill that will transform the health care system in the U.S. This House passed reform legislation previously passed by the U.S. Senate which will now be signed into law by President Obama. Also passed by a vote of 220-211 was a reconciliation bill which contains correction and legislative improvements, including language negotiated by Rep. McCollum to fix Medicare geographic payment inequities suffered by Minnesota hospitals and doctors. "Tonight Democrats had courage to stand up for the real needs of America's families. The real winners tonight are patients and taxpayers because their health care will become more affordable and accessible," said McCollum following the vote. In a speech on the floor of the U.S. House only minutes before passage, McCollum said, "When we pass this bill lives will be saved, families will be protected, and millions of Americans will no longer live in fear. Today I will vote to end discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions. Today I will vote to extend health care to 32 million Americans. And when this bill becomes law health care security will finally become a reality for the American people." The legislation passed by the U.S. House will extend insurance coverage to 32 million uninsured Americans and cuts the federal budget deficit by $143 billion in the first decade according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office. It will also end insurance company abuses such as rescission, discrimination due to pre-existing conditions, and lifetime insurance caps. For seniors, the bill fills the Medicare prescription drug donut hole. The health care benefits that the 615,000 Minnesota residents of the Fourth Congressional District can look forward to the following: 409,000 residents of the Fourth Congressional district will see improvements in their current health care coverage 7,000 residents of the Fourth Congressional district who can't buy health insurance now because of a pre-existing condition will be able to obtain coverage Up to 141,000 families in the Fourth Congressional district will get tax credits to help make health insurance more affordable Up to 14,100 small businesses in the Fourth Congressional will get tax credits to help make health insurance more affordable for their employees 86,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the Fourth Congressional will see better care and will pay less for prescription drugs because the Medicare Part D donut hole will be closed 50,000 young adults in the Fourth Congressional will be able to stay on their parents' health insurance policy until their 26th birthday 19,500 uninsured residents in the Fourth Congressional will have access to health care coverage 900 families won't have to file for bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs 20 community health centers will receive millions of dollars in new funding to see thousands of new patients. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.20.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Reps. Ron Kind (WI-03), Bruce Braley (IA-01), Jay Inslee (WA-01) and Betty McCollum (MN-04) announced a major breakthrough today on the issue of Medicare payment reform in the final health care reform bill. Kind, Braley, Inslee and McCollum have been outspoken advocates for changing the way Medicare pays health care providers for services, from its current fee-for-service system into a quality and value-based system. Kind, Braley, Inslee and McCollum helped negotiate a compromise adding language to the health care reform bill that provides an immediate $800 million to address geographic disparities for both doctors and hospitals, as well as written guarantees from Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius for further action to reform Medicare reimbursement rates that do not qualify for reconciliation under the Byrd Rule. The Senate bill previously only provided a Medicare reimbursement fix for doctors. The House reconciliation package maintained automatic implementation of a value index as part of the reimbursement structures for doctors, beginning in 2015. This language included the Senate bill is based on Braley and Kind's Medicare Payment Improvement Act, introduced in June 2009. "Our current system pays for the number of procedures ordered instead of the quality of care provided; resulting in $800 billion in wasteful spending each year that doesn't help the patient," Kind said. "We're correcting the unfairness of Medicare reimbursement rates with this measure and taking steps toward historic payment reform that rewards the value of care delivered instead of the quantity of care provided. This will lead to a more cost effective way to pay for and deliver health care in our country and lower costs in the long run, making health care more affordable for all Americans." "This compromise represents a major breakthrough in health care reform that will finally reward Iowa's medical providers for the high-quality care they've been providing Iowa's families for years," Braley said. "After negotiating directly with Speaker Nancy Pelosi and representatives from the White House late Friday into the early hours of Saturday morning, I'm proud to say the health care bill will finally fix these inequities, move us to a better reimbursement model that emphasizes quality over quantity, and help recruit well-qualified health-care providers to Iowa - all because of changes I championed." "A key element of improving health care and reducing our nation's deficit is contained in this agreement," Inslee said. "For many months, the Quality Care Coalition and I have been working on language that would shift our health care system from one that rewards the quantity of service to one that rewards quality of service. At 3am this morning, we reached a conclusion that accomplishes this. Washington State health providers, along with providers across the country, will no longer be penalized for being efficient and taking excellent care of their patients." "This agreement will transform health care in America," McCollum said. "It's good for patients and it's good for taxpayers" Medicare currently operates under a fee-for-service system, basing payments to doctors and hospitals on the amount of procedures completed and the number of patients seen. This system creates a financial incentive to order more and more procedures. Ironically, according to many studies, this increased number of procedures does not result in better outcomes for patients. The letter from Sebelius promises the following steps to improve Medicare reimbursement rates for Iowa's medical providers: Institute of Medicine (IOM) study to reform the Medicare system to address all geographic disparities for doctors and hospitals and implementation of IOM recommendations by December 2012. IOM study based on Braley's house-passed language making firm recommendations to move toward high quality, low cost care across the health care sector and implementation of the recommendations, as part of the new Independent Payment Advisory Board, by 2014. Additional direction to the new Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to further test innovative models to incent high quality, low cost care across the provider spectrum. A personal commitment from Sebelius to convene a National Summit on Geographic Variation, Cost, Access and Value in Health Care later this year. Kind, Braley, Inslee and McCollum were all members of the Congressional Quality Care Coalition that negotiated for fair reimbursements throughout the legislative process. The text of the new legislative language and the letter from Sebelius are attached. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.20.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov U.S. House - White House Agreement to Address Medicare Geographic Payment Inequities and Reward Value in Care Medicare Geographic Fairness: Bill Language Agreed Upon for Reconciliation $800 million secured for doctors and hospitals: $400 million in FY2010 (immediate) for doctor payments under GPCI $400 million secured to address geographic disparities for hospitals in the lowest quartile of reimbursement. FY2011 - $200 million for hospitals FY2012 - $200 million for hospitals White House Commitment to Quality Care Coalition: Letter from the Secretary of Health and Human Services On March 20, 2010 the Secretary of HHS sent a letter to the Members of the Quality Care Coalition with a commitment and plan to address the current geographic variation in Medicare reimbursement and advance health care quality and value to bend the cost curve that meets the goals outlined in Section 1157 and 1158 of the Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962), which passed on November 7, 2009. Geographic Study and Implementation Plan The Institute of Medicine (IOM) will evaluate and make recommendations to improve the geographic adjustment factors in the Medicare physician payment and hospital wage index reimbursement formulas. The Secretary of HHS will implement the findings and make changes in the rates by December 31, 2012. National Summit on Geographic Variation and Value The Secretary of HHS will convene a National Summit on Geographic Variation, Cost, Access, and Value in Health Care in 2010. Independent Advisory Payment Board (IPAB) The President will work to appoint members to IPAB who have an expertise in geographic, value, and quality disparities as they reform Medicare. High Value Study and Implementation Plan The IOM will do a second study and provide recommendations on changing the Medicare payment system to reward value and quality. IPAB will be urged to consider the recommendations of both studies in making additional payment adjustments to incentivize value and quality by 2014. Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation The Secretary of HHS will direct the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation to test innovative models based on IOM recommendations. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. ####
03.20.2010	
03.17.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.gov Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) announced the specific benefits that health insurance reform will bring to residents of Minnesota's Fourth Congressional district. The plan will put Fourth Congressional district residents and small businesses back in charge of their health care choices. It will make coverage more affordable for everyone and hold insurance companies accountable, stopping their worst practices like denial of coverage because of a pre-existing condition, dropping coverage when a policyholder gets sick, or arbitrarily increasing premiums. "When we pass health care reform, it will have a real impact on Minnesota families and the families I serve in the Fourth Congressional district," said Congresswoman McCollum. "It's going to mean controlling costs, increasing access, ensuring quality, holding insurance companies accountable, and protecting patients from insurance company abuses." Here are just some of the benefits that 615,000 Minnesota residents of the Fourth Congressional district will see from this reform: 409,000 residents of the Fourth Congressional district will see improvements in their current health care coverage 7,000 residents of the Fourth Congressional district who can't buy health insurance now because of a pre-existing condition will be able to obtain coverage Up to 141,000 families in the Fourth Congressional district will get tax credits to help make health insurance more affordable Up to 14,100 small businesses in the Fourth Congressional will get tax credits to help make health insurance more affordable for their employees 86,000 Medicare beneficiaries in the Fourth Congressional will see better care and will pay less for prescription drugs because the Medicare Part D donut hole will be closed 50,000 young adults in the Fourth Congressional will be able to stay on their parents' health insurance policy until their 26th birthday 19,500 uninsured residents in the Fourth Congressional will have access to health care coverage 900 families won't have to file for bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs 20 community health centers will receive millions of dollars in new funding to see thousands of new patients. Health care reform legislation, which is being advanced in Congress by Democrats, will rein in health care costs across Minnesota and the United States. Small businesses will receive tax credits to make it easier for them to provide coverage for their workers - so they don't have to choose between providing health care and hiring new employees. Middle class families will get tax credits to make their health care costs affordable - so they never have to worry about going bankrupt because of an illness. Over 30 million Americans who currently cannot afford coverage will be able to receive health care, and millions of Americans will have the peace of mind that if they switch jobs-or lose their job-they won't lose their health care. Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
03.12.2010	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) released the following statement emphasizing her position for Congress to finally pass health care reform, her support of reconciliation, and the need for government to oversee -not overtake- our nation's health care system: "Our nation's health care system is broken, and it needs to be fixed. Tens of millions of American are uninsured, underinsured, or afraid of losing their coverage. Insurance companies continue to squeeze families by increasing health premiums and reducing coverage. Unless you are an insurance company or a Republican Member of Congress this is the time for action. It is time to pass health care reform. "We have an historic opportunity to end discrimination by insurance companies for people with pre-existing conditions; close the Medicare ‘donut hole' to protect senior citizens from paying high prescription drug costs; lower the cost of insurance for all Americans; improve affordability, access, and quality for everyone; and extend health insurance coverage to at least 30 million currently uninsured Americans. This reform agenda is about giving Americans more insurance choices - specifically the purchasing power that big businesses already enjoy and the same options that every Member of Congress has. "Given the current state of health care today and the opportunity for Congress to take action, I fully support reconciliation - a legitimate, transparent, democratic, and authorized legislative process. Despite Republican claims, reconciliation shouldn't be feared. It allows for a majority vote in the U.S. Senate to pass legislation to help reduce the budget deficit. "One of the numerous benefits of this plan is how it will reduce our nation's overwhelming deficit. Closer monitoring of the current Medicare system will help eliminate waste, abuse, and fraud. By extending health insurance to the uninsured we can reduce the federal budget deficit by no less than $100 billion over the next decade. Making reform about paying for quality over quantity of care will also help reduce the deficit. "Reconciliation will also ‘correct' the current proposed version of health care reform by removing excessive provisions that some of my colleagues in the Senate have included. The provisions in question only benefit the constituents in states such as Florida, Louisiana, and Nebraska. I applaud President Obama for demanding that these special perks be stripped. "Passing health care reform isn't about imposing a government-run health care system. In fact, it's quite the opposite. The government has a responsibility to oversee health insurance companies' practices and hold them accountable when they dump sick policy holders or gouge consumers with excessive premium increases. The government must protect millions of American families from denial of coverage. No one should ever have to think twice about asking for medical care but yet so many do. "Republicans feign shock over what the Democrats have done for health care reform, accusing the Democrats of plowing this legislation through Congress. This is not true. When they had control of Congress, Republicans had endless opportunities to reform our nation's health care system, and they simply ignored the problem. Furthermore, President Obama has reached out to Republicans and asked them to weigh in and be part of the process even going so far as to incorporate their ideas. Republicans have responded by rejecting bipartisanship and embracing stonewalling in hopes of stopping this process altogether. "There have been enough delays in the health care reform process. The American people deserve a simple up or down vote from Congress. I will be a vote for health care reform, and I urge my House colleagues to join me in fixing our nation's health care system."
03.03.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govHumane Society of the United States and Humane Society Legislative Fund Honor U.S. Rep. McCollum for Animal Welfare Leadership in 2009WASHINGTON, DC (March 3, 2010) - On behalf of its more than 20,000 supporters in Minnesota's 4th district, The Humane Society of the United States, together with its affiliate, the Humane Society Legislative Fund, will present an award to U.S. Rep. Betty McCollum, D-Minn., for her leadership on animal protection legislation in 2009.Rep. McCollum received a Humane Advocate award for earning a perfect score on the 2009 Humane Scorecard."We commend Representative McCollum for being a tremendous advocate of animal protection policies in the U.S. Congress," said Wayne Pacelle, president and CEO of The HSUS. "Her consistent support across the range of issues that affects animals is so deeply appreciated."Every year, the Humane Society Legislative Fund compiles a federal Humane Scorecard to provide a snapshot of animal protection issues considered by the U.S. Congress and give animal advocates a tool to assess the performance of their Senators and Representatives. The scorecard tracks key votes as well as co-sponsorship of important pro-animal bills and signing an annual letter seeking funds needed to enforce key animal welfare laws. For 2009, House ratings included votes on issues ranging from stopping the commerce in primates as exotic pets to protecting wild horses from commercial sale and slaughter to assisting with the conservation of cranes, big cats, and other rare species, and co-sponsorship of priority bills on horse slaughter, fur labeling, overuse of antibiotics in animal agriculture, and chimpanzees in research.In total, 131 legislators - one-third of the Senate and nearly one-quarter of the House (representing 36 states and two U. S. territories) - will receive awards for their work in 2009. To see the complete list of 2009 awardees, please click here."We're grateful to the many Members of Congress who are helping to forge a path to a more humane future through their demonstrated leadership on animal protection legislation," said HSLF President Michael Markarian. "Our animal welfare laws are a reflection of our basic values and attitudes shared by people across the country."Pacelle and Markarian presented the award at a reception on Wednesday, March 3 at the U.S. Capitol.
02.26.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWASHINGTON, DC– The following is a statement from Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04), regarding the Senate Republican obstruction of the federal benefits extension legislation for the unemployed.“Thursday night, one Republican U.S. Senator blocked the federal benefits extension legislation Minnesota families desperately need. It is outrageous that the Republicans are playing politics with the livelihoods of the millions of unemployed Americans across the country. It is time for the U.S. Senate to immediately help the millions of Americans who are out of work by passing an extension of unemployment benefits and the COBRA subsidy.“In Minnesota alone, over 200,000 people are requesting unemployment insurance each week. The reality is that these hurting families will have to figure out how to keep their homes and feed their families while Republican Senator Jim Bunning (R-KY) makes his political point. Senator Bunning claims to be standing on principle – the truth is he is standing in the way of millions of American families’ ability to access these emergency funds.“The current benefits all expire in only two days and our unemployed workers – many who are out of work because of no fault of their own – need this safety net. Too many American families are in crisis and need our help. The Senate must not keep them waiting and worrying. Last December, I voted for the Jobs for Main Street Act (H.R. 2847), which extended the availability of unemployment and the COBRA subsidy for six months, but, again, the Senate has yet to act.“The Senate just passed a much-needed $15 billion jobs bill, but they did not include an unemployment extension for those who are out of work. Congress must do something, and extending benefits for one or two months at a time is a band-aid approach that only adds uncertainty for families and states. States need much longer than 30 days to administrate these benefits. With the expiration only days away, many unemployed workers have already received notices from the states that the programs are ending, which will happen again and again without a long-term extension. Congress is creating an administrative nightmare with these short extensions, and I support a long-term extension of at least six months but preferably for a year.” Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
02.17.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govWASHINGTON, DC - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-Minn.) made the following statement during the House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs hearing on next year's International Affairs Budget. Transcript is as follows.Madame Secretary...I want to applaud the nomination of a U.S. Ambassador to Syria. We must be engaged with that critical country. I also want to recognize your work to re-establish the United States as a global leader on human rights. You are speaking out against child marriage in Yemen. You are pressing Internet freedom in China. You are taking an aggressive stand against the atrocious legislation in Uganda to punish its gay and lesbian citizens.This is the leadership the world expects from America. Thank you for making the fight for human rights your fight. The issue I would like to discuss with you is global food security.The fact that 1 billion people around the world are struggling with chronic hunger is a moral issue. It is an obstacle to development, and it is a strategic concern - a hungry world will never be stable or secure. Last September, I saw that struggle again in Guatemala. Fifty percent of children in that country are physically and mentally stunted by years of under-nutrition. There is no doubt that food security is the foundation of all the other development investments we make. If students are hungry, they cannot learn in school. If patients do not have proper nutrition, HIV medications don't work. I strongly support the commitment that the President and you have made to developing a new, comprehensive global food security strategy. And I am encouraged to see the strategy will focus on agricultural development - helping people grow their way out of hunger.Last year, I advocated on this Subcommittee for the resources needed to support the new food security initiative. Before we make decisions about a second year of funding, this Committee needs to see a detailed plan for how and where the Fiscal Year 2010 are being invested. My first question is when can we expect to receive that information? Secondly, I want to work with you to create the partnership with Congress needed to sustain this effort.Food security is a long-term development strategy. Significant gains will not be achieved in 1 or 3 or even 5 years. That is why I am working with Senator Lugar on the Global Food Security Act - legislation that will authorize this major new foreign assistance initiative. Would you talk to us about your plan for engaging with this Committee and with Congress to create the support we need to make a new global food security initiative successful?Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees.####
02.17.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govSaint Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) today joined Ramsey County officials and representatives from the area business and labor community in announcing that Union Depot has been awarded a $35 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The Minnesota project is included in $1.5 billion announced by the Obama Administration as part of the U.S. DOT TIGER grants to states, tribal governments, cities, counties and transit agencies across the country to fund 51 innovative transportation projects.Congresswoman McCollum's remarks follow:This is great news for St. Paul, Ramsey County and our entire State. This is a major investment in our region and our ability to be competitive into the 21st Century.Within a few years, Union Depot will again be bustling with passengers coming and going on trains, buses, cars and bicycles.This federal grant announcement puts Minnesota a huge step closer to realizing the vision of a Union Depot multi-modal transportation hub after decades of planning and millions of dollars of local investment.We are pleased that President Obama sees Union Depot as a model project for the nation - a true showcase of his commitment to build a transportation future for America that creates jobs, modernizes our economy, and protects the environment.Today is the first anniversary of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, and it is clear with this announcement today that these investments made by Congress and President Obama are having a direct impact in our community:This project will mean thousands of construction jobs right here in St. Paul, building a 21st Century transportation system and boosting our economy.This is a big step forward and we look forward to continuing our strong partnership to keep Minnesota moving.We need to keep our vision and investments alive to make sure Red Rock, I-94 and Riverview Corridors are built and connect at Union Depot.Strong partnerships including the business community, the labor community, and federal, state and local governments through organizations are working together to ensure that investments in passenger rail, roads and bridges are being made throughout our entire state.Congresswoman Betty McCollum serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees####
02.12.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govMinnesota Customers of Wells Fargo Facing Mortgage Problems Are Urgedto Pre-Register to Confidentially Discuss Options to Avoid ForeclosureSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) announced that she will attend a Wells Fargo sponsored Home Preservation Workshop at St. Paul's RiverCentre on February 17th. The workshop will allow Minnesota mortgage customers of Wells Fargo or Wachovia to meet directly with a home preservation specialist to confidentially discuss options to avoid foreclosure. For qualified customers loan modifications will be done on the spot by a Wells Fargo representative. Non-profit housing counselors not associated with Wells Fargo will also be on hand for customers seeking advice on how best to proceed. During the visit McCollum will meet with Wells Fargo officials, constituent customers, and other housing counselors providing services."The foreclosure crisis is a national disaster for families and the financial sector that requires lenders, mortgage holders, and all levels of government to work together in good faith to keep people in their homes and paying their mortgages. Wells Fargo is making a real effort to meet their customers in our community face-to-face and I hope folks who find themselves in mortgage trouble or seeking advice on how to avoid trouble will attend this event," McCollum said.The Wells Fargo Home Preservation Workshop will be held on February 17th and 18th at the St. Paul RiverCentre's Grand Ballroom from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. on both days. Customers with Wells Fargo or Wachovia mortgages should call (800) 405-8067 for more information or visit www.wfhmevents.com/leadingthewayhome to pre-register for an appointment.Wells Fargo has held similar workshops in Atlanta, Baltimore, Chicago, and Phoenix, providing on-site decisions to over 60% of customers.Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-4) serves on the House Appropriations and Budget Committees. # # #
02.10.2010	Contact: Maria Reppas, (202) 225-6631 / (202) 527-0149 maria.reppas@mail.house.govMEDIA ADVISORYSt. Paul, MN - Congresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-04) will participate in a town hall meeting hosted by State Senator Sandy Pappas in St. Paul on Saturday, February 13th at 3:00 p.m. Congresswoman McCollum will provide an update on priority issues before Congress. Also attending will be Ramsey County Commissioner Toni Carter and St. Paul Council Member Melvin Carter.Event: Community Town Hall Meeting in Senate District 65Speakers: Congresswoman Betty McCollum, State Senator Sandy Pappas, Ramsey County Commissioner Toni Carter, St. Paul Council Member Melvin CarterDate: Saturday, February 13th at 3:00 pmLocation: Rondo Community Outreach Library, 461 North Dale St., St. PaulCongresswoman Betty McCollum (MN-4) serves on the House Appropriations & Budget Committees.# # #
02.08.2010	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement upon learning of the death today of U.S. Rep. John Murtha (D-PA), chairman of the U.S. House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee. Mr. Murtha was first elected to Congress in February 1974 and represented Pennsylvania's 12th District. "Rep. John Murtha was a passionate legislator and decorated ex-Marine — Bronze Star and two Purple Hearts — who always stood with our fighting men and women and their families as he worked to keep America strong and safe. Jack's courageous leadership in opposing the war in Iraq is in large part why our troops are being responsibly drawn down today. Beneath the rough exterior Jack was always a gentleman and quick with a warm word. I will miss him greatly."
02.05.2010	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) will join State Senator Sandy Rummel and State Representative Paul Gardner for community town hall meeting in Shoreview this Saturday, February 6, 2010. Congresswoman McCollum will provide an update on the issues being debated in Congress. Event: Community Town Hall Meeting in District 53A Speakers: Congresswoman McCollum, State Senator Sandy Rummel, State Representative Paul Gardner Date: Saturday, February 6, 2010 at 9:00 am Location: Shoreview Community Center, Room 202/203, 4580 Victoria Street N, Shoreview
01.27.2010	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement on President Obama's first State of the Union address: "President Obama's State of the Union address set the tone the American people and Congress needed to hear. Families are hurting in this economy and it is time to take action to create jobs, build a new foundation of confidence for the middle class, and invest in America's economic future. The President is absolutely right that the challenges facing our nation are great and Congress needs to end the partisan political games and get to work advancing the people's business."
01.26.2010	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) has invited Minnesota AFL-CIO President Shar Knutson to be her guest to President Obama's first State of the Union Address on Wednesday, January 27. Knutson was elected president of the of the 300,000 member labor federation in August 2009, and is the first woman in the Minnesota AFL-CIO's history to hold this office. McCollum expects President Obama to focus his remarks on putting Americans back to work, investing in our economic recovery, and passing health care reform legislation. "Too many Americans are hurting because they have lost their job or are worried about losing a job," said Congresswoman McCollum. "No one understands the issues facing working families better than Shar Knutson. Her leadership of the Minnesota AFL-CIO is making a difference for Minnesota families. I am honored that she is joining me as my guest for this historic night as President Obama addresses the continuing challenges facing our nation." Prior to her election to the statewide AFL-CIO, Knutson was elected president to the St. Paul labor federation in 1998. She is a regional representative advising the Executive Board of the national AFL-CIO and has played an active role in the successful campaign to increase labor's voice in national, state and local issues, including raising awareness and promoting community debate about social and economic justice. Knutson served as a policy analyst and assistant to St. Paul Mayor Jim Scheibel, and was on the Greater Twin Cities United Way Board and the Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs Advisory Council.
01.20.2010	Rep. McCollum introduces legislation to fix BIE school exclusion from "Race to the Top" funds so Native American children have access to critical education funding Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) today introduced bipartisan legislation to address the lack of Recovery Act funding reaching Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) schools in Minnesota and across the country. The bill, with 16 bipartisan co-sponsors, would allocate a small percentage of the "Race to the Top" funds and the Innovation Fund for Native students at BIE schools. "To create systemic change and find overdue solutions for problems that have long been ignored, we must make long-term investments in education. In no community are these issues faced - and subsequently ignored - more than with American Indians and Alaska Natives. I introduced this bill to address the extreme lack of funding that perpetuates adverse conditions and unmet basic needs in Indian Country. Not including BIE schools was an oversight, and we're trying to fix it. We must prevent the first Americans from becoming an invisible people in the eyes of the federal government," Congresswoman McCollum said. "This bill is critical to providing the same opportunities for education funding for the close to fifty thousand students who attend the K-12 schools within the Bureau of Indian Education school system. The National Indian Education Association is very pleased to support this bill as it upholds the trust responsibility of the United States government to ensure equitable educational quality and access for all Indian students," said Patricia Whitefoot (Yakama/DinÃ©), President of the National Indian Education Association. "I am committed to meet our trust responsibility to American Indian and Alaska Native people, including the education of our Native students in the four Bureau of Indian Education schools in Minnesota and the 183 schools nationwide," Congresswoman McCollum said. Bureau of Indian Education schools face the same hardships, if not much greater, as public schools. Under Title 1 of No Child Left Behind, 1 percent of funding is allocated to the BIE and to outlying territories, and the BIE schools traditionally receive 0.72 percent by transfer to the Department of Interior. However, tribal governments and BIE schools are ineligible to access the "Race to the Top" grants and the Innovation Fund under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. As a result, tribes and BIE schools are deprived of the same economic relief and incentives for better education as public schools, despite the desperate need in Indian Country. The bill: Complies with the federal government's trust responsibility to provide for the education of Native students. Fulfills the goals of "Race to the Top" and the Innovation Fund by providing funds to improve low-performing schools and the students who need it the most. Provides direct access to this funding to tribes and Bureau of Indian Education schools, respecting tribal sovereignty. Allocates at least 1 percent of the remaining "Race to the Top" funds and the Innovation Fund to be transferred to the Department of Interior for Bureau of Indian Education schools. Original co-sponsors of this bipartisan legislation include Rep. Kildee (D-MI) and Rep. Cole (R-OK), the co-chairs of the House Native American Caucus, and Reps. Peterson (D-MN), Oberstar (D-MN) and Walz (D-MN) of Minnesota. Additional original co-sponsors are: Rep. Bonner (R-AL), Rep. Baca (D-CA), Rep. Lujan (D-NM), Rep. Grijalva (D-AZ), Rep. Heinrich (D-NM), Rep. Shuler (D-NC), Rep. Herseth-Sandlin (D-SD), Rep. Kennedy (D-RI), Rep. Boren (D-OK) and Rep. Pallone (D-NJ). The text of the legislation can be found here.
12.29.2009	Congresswoman Betty McCollum (DFL-Minn.) released the following statement regarding the recent forced repatriation of Hmong refugees: "The forced repatriation to Laos by Thai authorities of more than 4,500 Hmong refugees from Huay Nam Khao in Phetchabun, Thailand, violates the basic principle of human dignity and decency upheld by international law. For the past six years since this refugee group was congregated at Huay Nam Khao in Thailand, the Thai government has repeatedly refused requests by the U.S. government to resettle this group to third countries. Thai authorities have also denied requests for access to this population by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugee (UNHCR) and other human rights groups. The safety and well being of this group is vital, and I will continue to work closely with the U.S. Department of State and the Lao government to monitor the reintegration process of this group in Laos."
