12.21.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on the Passage of the First Step Act Applauds Progress of Efforts to End Mandatory Minimum Sentencing WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on the First Step Act of 2018, which passed both the House and the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan support and is now the law of the land. “I applaud the overwhelmingly bipartisan support for, and passage of, the First Step Act by the U.S. Congress. As a lifelong civil rights advocate and a leader in the fight for criminal justice reform, I believe that this bill is one step in a journey of many miles to enacting the comprehensive reforms our country, communities, and citizens – particularly people of color -- so desperately need and deserve. “Earlier this year, I shared the concerns of almost every criminal justice organization in the country regarding the First Step Act: the bill, as originally drafted, did next to nothing to reform our criminal justice system’s draconian sentencing practices and processes. While I applaud my colleagues’ efforts to amend the bill, there are still provisions within this law that are deeply troubling to me. The First Step Act only applies to the federal system, which imprisons only a small fraction—about 180,000—of the 2.1 million people currently incarcerated in the United States. The bill also fails to end life without parole and other extreme sentences for children in the federal criminal justice system – a step that a majority of states, including California, have already taken. The bill also includes a ‘risk assessment system’ tool that may rely on algorithms to determine which inmates are eligible for ‘earned time credits’ that can be used for early release. I am concerned that such a tool and algorithm, if created without a strong understanding of the racial inequities in our criminal justice system, could have a discriminatory effect on people of color. “However, I am pleased that the amended bill includes a wide range of sentencing reforms that are much needed if we are ever to fix our broken criminal justice system. The new version would retroactively apply the Fair Sentencing Act of 2010, which reduced the disparity between crack and powder cocaine sentences from a ratio of 100-to-1 to 18-to-1. More than 2,600 people will now have the opportunity to have their sentences reduced because of this provision. “I am especially thrilled that the amended version of the First Step Act also makes initial strides towards ending mandatory minimum sentencing – an issue that I have championed for more than 20 years. The bill increases judges’ discretion to both reject and/or reduce mandatory minimums for people convicted of certain drug offenses, which will impact more than 2,000 people annually. The new bill also reforms the unfair two- and three-strike laws by reducing the mandatory life sentence for a third drug felony to 25 years, and the mandatory sentence for a second drug felony from 20 to 15 years. “I have worked for decades to end mass incarceration and reverse the effects of mandatory minimum sentences for non-violent drug offenses -- policies that originated from Congress’ ill-conceived response to the 1980s crack cocaine epidemic and the public outcry following the death of college athlete Len Bias in 1986. Bias’ death from a cocaine overdose generated significant media coverage and led to the enactment of so-called ‘tough on crime’ policies at the state and federal levels, which have disproportionately incarcerated African Americans and Latinos. For many years, as a member or former member of the House Judiciary Committee, I introduced legislation such as the Major Drug Trafficking Prosecution Act and the Mandatory Minimum Reform Act, which would restore judicial discretion and greatly reduce the use of cruel mandatory minimum sentences for non-violent drug offenses. For the past 20 years, I have also hosted annual forums on mandatory minimum sentences and criminal justice reform during the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation (CBCF) Annual Legislative Conference. These forums have featured an esteemed panel of advocates -- including Kemba Smith Pradia -- who are my partners and allies in this fight. Kemba Smith Pradia was sentenced to serve a mandatory minimum prison sentence of 24.5 years for a first-time, non-violent offense. Her sentence was commuted under the Clinton Administration, and she has since become known as the poster child for sentencing reform. I have also partnered with organizations such as Families Against Mandatory Minimums (FAMM), the Open Society Institute, the Drug Policy Alliance, and the Sentencing Project during my annual forum, which continues to be one of the most well-attended events during the conference. “The First Step Act is far from perfect, but I join my colleagues and criminal justice advocates who are pleased with the amended provisions of the bill. I remain committed to my career-long effort to reform our criminal justice system and eradicate mandatory minimum drug sentences, which we know have destroyed the lives of millions of Americans and have had devastating effects on people of color – particularly African Americans. These reforms are a small, but nonetheless important, step toward a more equitable and just judicial system.” # # #
12.21.2018	Rep. Waters Applauds the Passage of the BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer's Act WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), the Co-Chair of the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, applauded the passage of S. 2076, the Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act. The bill passed the House of Representatives on December 19th by an overwhelming vote of 361 to 3, after passing the Senate by a voice vote on December 12th, and is expected to be signed into law. “I am delighted that Congress passed the BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act. We introduced this innovative bill to promote early detection and diagnosis, support caregivers, and reduce health disparities related to the care and treatment of Alzheimer’s patients. The passage of this bill marks a historic victory in the fight against Alzheimer’s. I will continue to advocate for this and other legislative efforts that improve the lives of the more than 5 million Americans who are living with this devastating disease,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. As a congressional leader of Alzheimer’s disease response efforts, Congresswoman Maxine Waters joined together with her colleagues, Reps. Brett Guthrie (R-KY-2), Paul Tonko (D-NY-20), and Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ-4), to introduce the House version of the BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act (H.R. 4256), while the Senate version (S. 2076) was introduced by Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME). The bill establishes Alzheimer’s Centers of Excellence around the country to expand and promote innovative and effective Alzheimer’s interventions, which will support early detection, reduce the risk of hospitalizations and cognitive decline, support caregivers, and reduce health disparities. The bill is a priority of Alzheimer’s advocates in the 115th Congress. “We are thankful to Rep. Waters for her continued, steadfast work to address Alzheimer’s for millions of Californians and other Americans,” said Alzheimer’s Association Chief Public Policy Officer, Robert Egge. “When signed into law, the BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act will build and strengthen our nation’s Alzheimer’s public health response resulting in improved outcomes and quality of life for millions of Americans.” Alzheimer’s disease affects more than 5 million Americans, and it is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States. There is no effective treatment, no means of prevention, and no method for slowing the progression of the disease. Most Alzheimer’s patients require constant care and attention, especially when they are in the final stages of the disease. The Alzheimer’s Association calculated that caregivers provided more than 18 billion hours of unpaid care for people with dementia in 2016, at an estimated value of over $230 billion. “As the Co-Chair of the bipartisan, bicameral Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, I know how devastating this disease can be for patients, families, and caregivers. I applaud the passage of the BOLD Infrastructure for Alzheimer’s Act, which will improve diagnosis, care and treatment for Alzheimer’s patients and provide critical support to caregivers,” said Congresswoman Waters. ###
12.15.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on the Death of a 7-year-old in Trump Administration Custody WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on the death of a 7-year-old Guatemalan girl, Jakelin Caal Maquin, who died of dehydration and shock after being taken into custody by Trump administration U.S. Customs and Border Patrol agents. “I am horrified by the reports that Jakelin Caal Maquin, a 7-year-old Guatemalan girl, died of dehydration and shock after being taken into custody by Trump administration customs and border patrol agents. I offer my sincere and deepest condolences to her parents, siblings, relatives and loved ones during this difficult time. “This young girl’s death while in the custody of the Trump administration is not only shocking, but a painful reminder of the humanitarian crisis taking place on our border. Every day we are bombarded with heartbreaking reports of the desperation of parents and children who are searching for a better life, but are unable to safely seek asylum in the United States as guaranteed by federal and international law. “Furthermore, the tragic circumstances surrounding the death of Jakelin Caal Maquin raise a number of questions about her treatment as well as that of thousands of other children in the Trump administration’s custody. Did the administration adhere to proper medical examination protocols for children taken into its custody? Did the administration provide her with adequate food and water? Why did she have to wait 90 minutes before the administration provided her with medical care? Why did the Department of Homeland Security withhold notifying the public of her death for five days? “My heart aches for the family of Jakelin Caal Maquin. As the greatest democracy in the world, we have a responsibility to uphold the rule of law, which allows parents and children who are fleeing extreme danger and violence to apply for asylum in the United States. Those seeking asylum are not automatically granted permanent entrance into the United States. They must formally apply, go through background checks and appear before a judge in order to determine whether they qualify. I join my colleagues in calling for a thorough investigation of the death of this 7-year-old girl while in the Trump administration’s custody. If there is any indication that this administration was derelict in its duties, I demand that any and all parties responsible be held accountable without delay.” # # #
12.15.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Texas Judge Ruling Obamacare Unconstitutional WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today in response to the ruling of a federal judge in Texas that the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) is unconstitutional: “I am deeply disturbed by the ruling of a federal judge in Texas – who was appointed by a Republican – that Obamacare is unconstitutional. This court case was brought before the court by a group of Republican governors and state attorneys general who are continuing the Republican Party’s relentless campaign to repeal Obamacare and strip away its protections for people with pre-existing conditions. The case is further evidence that Republicans will stop at nothing to strike down Obamacare and take away health coverage from millions of Americans. “Ironically, this ruling comes barely a month after numerous Republicans stood for reelection while campaigning on the false premise that they actually cared about people with pre-existing conditions and were committed to protecting them. The American people were not fooled by these disingenuous claims, and many of these Republicans lost. “I applaud the announcement that the State of California, along with several other states led by Democrats, plans to appeal the court’s ruling. Obamacare has already survived several court challenges initiated by heartless Republicans, and I have no doubt it will survive this one. “Democrats just won a big victory in the 2018 midterm elections, after proving time and time again that we are the party that truly cares about the health and well-being of working families, seniors, veterans, the disabled and Americans with pre-existing conditions. As we take control of the House of Representatives, we will fight to protect the rights of all Americans to quality, affordable health care, and make certain that Obamacare and its protections for people with pre-existing conditions remain the law of the land.” ###
12.14.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on the Death of Nancy Wilson WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on the death of legendary “song stylist,” Nancy Sue Wilson, who died at age 81. “I am heartbroken by the passing of my beloved friend, the legendary Nancy Wilson. Nancy was a ‘song stylist’ without peer. Her unmatched mastery of numerous genres of music, including jazz, R&B, gospel, blues, soul and pop, has etched her name in history as one of the most ‘formidable’ vocalists of all time. “Nancy began singing in church at the age of four in her home town of Chillicothe, Ohio. For more than five decades, she captivated audiences across the globe with her soul-stirring performances that would send chills down your spine; her more than 70 critically acclaimed albums, many of which I own; and her chart-topping hits such as ‘Guess Who I Saw Today,’ ‘Save Your Love for Me,’ and ‘Face It Girl, It’s Over,’ which are considered classics by generations of musicians and fans around the world. “Nancy is also a pioneer and trailblazer for women and entertainers of color. She hosted the National Public Radio program ‘Jazz Profiles’, won an Emmy for her starring role in NBC’s ‘The Nancy Wilson Show’ for nearly a decade, and served as one of the first African American spokeswomen for major national brands, including Campbell’s Soup. “Due to her brilliant talent, poise, and grace, Nancy was the recipient of numerous awards and recognitions including, three Grammy Awards, an NAACP Lifetime Achievement Award, and the Urban League’s Whitney Young Jr. Award. She also received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, and was recognized by the Martin Luther King, Jr. Center for Nonviolent Social Change. In 2004, Nancy also received the coveted National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) Jazz Masters Fellowships Award, which is the highest honor granted to jazz musicians by the U.S. government. “Anyone who knew Nancy understood how deeply she cared for our community, and how committed she was to using her voice to make a difference. We could always count on Nancy to perform for special causes like HIV/AIDS or in support of political leaders. Whenever and wherever we needed her, Nancy would be right there. “The incomparable Nancy Wilson. A musical genius, trailblazer, and hero who was loved and adored by so many. I join the world in mourning the loss of this extraordinary musical icon, and I consider it a blessing to have the privilege of calling her a cherished friend. My thoughts and prayers are with her three children, Kacy, Samantha, and Sheryl, five grandchildren, relatives and friends during this difficult time. “Though she is no longer with us, she will forever be remembered in hearts as our ‘Classy, Miss Nancy.’” # # #
12.07.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Republican Voter Fraud in North Carolina WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on voter fraud allegations in the 2018 midterm election for North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District. The results of the race – which were initially projected in favor of Republican Mark Harris who had a 905-vote lead over Democrat Dan McCready -- are under investigation after evidence of illegal activity by operatives associated with Mark Harris’ campaign was uncovered. “I am utterly disgusted by the evidence of voter fraud in the 2018 midterm elections in North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District. According to media reports, Republican operatives orchestrated a fraudulent operation on behalf of Republican candidate Mark Harris’ campaign for the U.S. Congress against a Democrat, Dan McCready. The operatives, led by Republican Leslie McCrae Dowless – an employee on Mark Harris’ campaign who was convicted and served time in prison for felony fraud and perjury charges— encouraged voters in Bladen and Robeson counties to request absentee ballots and illegally collected the ballots. At least one voter claimed that she handed over her ballot even though it had not been completely filled out and sealed.[1] “This fraudulent operation also appears to have specifically targeted communities of color in the 9th District. Not only was there an unusually high volume of absentee ballots requested in the 9th District, but nearly 36 percent of African American absentee ballots and 55 percent of Native American absentee ballots were never mailed in.[2] Voters have signed sworn affidavits alleging their ballots were stolen, and Republican operatives have gone on the record admitting that they were paid by Mr. Dowless to illegally collect ballots. [3] This is not what Democracy looks like. “As a sitting member of the U.S. Congress, an African American woman, and a lifelong champion of civil rights, I am beyond the point of outrage. Far too often, we are witnessing Republican-led efforts to suppress the votes of Americans in minority communities by passing strict voter identification laws in Pennsylvania, Arkansas, Wisconsin, and North Carolina; closing down 868 polling places from Arizona to North Carolina; thwarting early voting in Indiana, Florida, Nebraska, and Ohio; and creating a so-called exact match policy that disqualified voters if their names did not precisely match records because of typos, missing hyphens, or clerical errors in Georgia. “This is not merely a local or state issue – this is a matter of national concern. I join my colleagues in calling for credible and thorough investigations of any and all voter fraud claims in North Carolina’s 9th Congressional District election by the state elections board. If, as it appears, the voting rights of American citizens have been violated, then I demand that the perpetrators be prosecuted and punished to the fullest extent of the law. Furthermore, based on the evidence of voter fraud by Harris campaign operatives that has already been uncovered, I believe that the U.S. House should refuse to allow Mark Harris to be seated in the 116th Congress.” # # # [1] https://www.cnn.com/2018/12/05/politics/north-carolina-election-fraud/index.html [2] https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/north-carolina-election-fraud-investigation-centers-on-operative-with-criminal-history-who-worked-for-gop-congressional-candidate/2018/12/03/7b270a90-f6aa-11e8-8c9a-860ce2a8148f_story.html?utm_term=.37c9f23c4f69 [3] https://www.cnn.com/2018/12/05/politics/north-carolina-election-fraud/index.html
12.01.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on the Death of Former President George H. W. Bush WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on the death of the 41st President of the United States, George H. W. Bush, who died at age 94: “I am saddened by the passing of former U.S. President George H.W. Bush, a true American patriot who dedicated his life to public service. “George H.W. Bush served our country as a U.S. Navy pilot during World War II, and represented his beloved home state of Texas in the U.S. Congress. He was also the director of the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), an ambassador to the United Nations, and the vice president of the United States before being elected as the 41st president of the United States in 1988. In addition to his decades-long career in public service, George H. W. Bush was the patriarch of a family of public servants, including the 43rd President of the United States, George W. Bush, and the former governor of Florida, John Ellis Bush. “George H.W. Bush is preceded in death by his wife of 73 years, former first lady Barbara Bush, who passed away earlier this year. I extend my sincere condolences to his family, friends, and loved ones during this difficult time. I pray that they find solace in knowing that he is now reunited with the love of his life.” # # #
12.01.2018	Congresswoman Waters Recognizes World AIDS Day 2018 Rep. Waters opposes HIV/AIDS budget cuts and Republican attempts to deny health coverage to people living with HIV/AIDS and other pre-existing conditions WASHINGTON – As a congressional leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day, which is celebrated every year on December 1: “On World AIDS Day, we unite in solidarity worldwide in the fight against HIV/AIDS. We show support for people living with the disease and commemorate those who have died. We stand together to raise awareness about the epidemic so we can prevent further spread of the virus and give hope to the 1.1 million Americans[1] and the 36.9 million[2] women, men and children worldwide who are living with HIV/AIDS. “Throughout my career, I have been a strong advocate for HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention and treatment. I worked with local organizations and community leaders to raise funds for local minority HIV/AIDS initiatives in Los Angeles, and introduced legislation to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic among African Americans in the California State Assembly. As a Member of the U.S. Congress, I spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative, which has significantly expanded HIV/AIDS prevention, screening, and treatment efforts among racial and ethnic minorities and reduced the tragic AIDS disparities affecting minority communities in the United States. I am pleased to report that funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative has increased from the initial appropriation of $156 million in fiscal year 1999 to more than $400 million per year today. “However, we still face unprecedented challenges in our struggle against HIV/AIDS. For the past two years, Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans have debated proposals to slash funding for HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment efforts and take health insurance away from millions of Americans, including those who are living with HIV/AIDS and other pre-existing conditions. Furthermore, after implementing an unconscionable policy of family separation, which snatched more than 2,500 children from the arms of their parents, the Trump administration shifted millions of dollars in funding from the Ryan White HIV/AIDS program in order to fund housing and care for migrant children, many of whom they have failed to reunite with their parents. The administration also announced further cuts to programs that benefit people living with HIV/AIDS, including: $3.8 million from HIV programs at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), $9.8 million from Medicare and Medicaid program operations, $2.2 million from maternal and child health programs, and $87.3 million overall from the National Institutes of Health. Americans living with HIV/AIDS deserve better.[3] “On World AIDS Day 2018, we must confront the challenges we face, and we must resist all attempts to abandon the struggle against this terrible disease. We must fight to protect Obamacare, which ensures that people living with HIV/AIDS and other pre-existing conditions can obtain health coverage. We must fight to stop budget cuts to all of the federal programs serving people affected by HIV/AIDS. We must expand research, prevention, screening and treatment efforts, and we must fight to make sure all Americans living with HIV/AIDS receive the care and treatment they need and deserve.” # # # [1] https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/overview/data-and-trends/statistics [2] https://www.hiv.gov/hiv-basics/overview/data-and-trends/global-statistics [3] https://www.cnn.com/2018/09/20/politics/hhs-shifting-money-cancer-aids-immigrant-children/index.html
11.21.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on the Brutal Murder of Washington Post Journalist Jamal Khashoggi WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on Donald Trump’s response to the murder of Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a United States resident and a native of Saudi Arabia whose death was ordered by Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, according to the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (C.I.A.): “I am horrified by the assassination of Saudi Arabian journalist Jamal Khashoggi, a United States resident and a journalist for the Washington Post, who, according to the C.I.A., was brutally murdered by Saudi agents at the behest of Mohammed bin Salman, the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia[1]. According to Turkish officials, Jamal Khashoggi was strangled and dismembered inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul,[2] in a manner that is as brutal as anyone can possibly imagine for the murder of a fellow human being. His murder was also a heinous attack on the freedom of the press, and it should shock every patriotic American to their core. “Unfortunately, Donald Trump has refused to accept the findings of our nation’s intelligence officials[3], and has disregarded the Turkish government’s audio recordings of the murder[4], which took place on Turkish soil. Instead, this president has once again chosen to protect a foreign dictator, and undermine the credibility and integrity of the United States government. “Donald Trump’s refusal to condemn or hold Saudi Arabia accountable is absolutely outrageous. From the onset of this tragic episode, Saudi officials have told the Trump administration and the world a changing series of lies to explain Mr. Khashoggi's disappearance and death. Initially, they claimed that Mr. Khashoggi had left the Saudi consulate alive and professed to be worried about his fate. Then, they suggested that he might have been killed by rogue agents. Eventually, they claimed that Saudi agents strangled Mr. Khashoggi during a fistfight inside the consulate and that 18 men had been arrested in the case.[5] However, not only has Trump, at every turn, been reluctant to adequately question or criticize the Saudi government, he is now lying and publicly questioning the CIA’s findings that Prince Salman ordered the attack, stating that they are not ‘definitive’[6] – when in fact they are the most definitive to date.[7] Donald Trump’s pathetic state of denial on behalf of a murderous foreign leader is beneath the dignity of the Office of the President of the United States. “Donald Trump’s attempts to protect Saudi Arabia are appalling but sadly not surprising. Trump has extensive business ties to Saudi Arabia. In 1991, he sold a 282-foot yacht to a Saudi royal billionaire, and in 2001, he sold the 45th floor of the Trump World Tower to the kingdom. At a campaign rally in 2015, Trump said, ‘Saudi Arabia, I get along with all of them. They buy apartments from me. They spend $40 million, $50 million. Am I supposed to dislike them? I like them very much.’[8] “Unfortunately, Donald Trump’s decision to ignore the facts and defend an outrageous autocrat such as Crown Prince Salman -- who has even lost the support of several members of the Saudi Royal Family[9] -- is typical for this president. Throughout his presidency, he has stood with and supported Russian President Vladimir Putin, another murderous autocrat, who our intelligence agencies concluded ordered an attack on the 2016 U.S. presidential elections. Trump said he ‘fell in love’ with North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un,[10] who ordered the execution of his brother, his uncle, and more than 300 political adversaries since assuming power in 2011.[11] Trump has even said he has a ‘great relationship’ with Rodrigo Duterte, the authoritarian leader of the Philippines, who has been accused of ordering thousands of extrajudicial killings under the guise of a war on drugs.[12] “How can the president of the United States protect, defend, and be in love with the enemies of our country and our most sacred ideals? Is this patriotism? I don’t think so.” # # # [1] https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/cia-concludes-saudi-crown-prince-ordered-jamal-khashoggis-assassination/2018/11/16/98c89fe6-e9b2-11e8-a939-9469f1166f9d_story.html?utm_term=.1c230060144e [2] https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/saudi-arabia-not-fully-cooperating-with-khashoggi-investigation-turkish-official-says/2018/10/31/804bfc2a-dc78-11e8-8bac-bfe01fcdc3a6_story.html?utm_term=.95fa41fcffb8 [3] https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2018/11/15/trump-administration-is-trying-hard-not-blame-saudi-crown-prince-khashoggis-death/?utm_term=.b6a37110291d [4] https://www.businessinsider.com/jamal-khashoggi-turkey-has-second-tape-of-murder-2018-11 [5] https://www.nytimes.com/2018/10/19/world/middleeast/jamal-khashoggi-dead-saudi-arabia.html [6] https://www.cnn.com/2018/11/20/politics/trump-saudi-arabia/index.html [7] https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/cia-concludes-saudi-crown-prince-ordered-jamal-khashoggis-assassination/2018/11/16/98c89fe6-e9b2-11e8-a939-9469f1166f9d_story.html?utm_term=.1c230060144e [8] https://www.newsweek.com/fox-news-factchecks-donald-trump-saudi-arabia-business-ties-denials-1173161 [9] https://www.cnbc.com/2018/11/19/after-khashoggi-murder-some-saudi-royals-turn-against-kings-favorite-son.html [10] https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2018/09/30/trump-north-koreas-kim-love-beautiful-letters/1478834002/ [11] https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/11/world/asia/north-korea-human-rights.html [12] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/13/world/asia/trump-duterte-philippines.html
11.21.2018	Waters: If Donald Trump is not Offering Prayers, Sympathy & Assistance to Californians, He Should Keep his Mouth Shut LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement on the Camp and Woolsey wildfires in California: “As the Camp and Woolsey Fires continue to blaze a deadly path across the great state of California, resulting in the loss of more than 80 lives and leaving more than 800 people missing[1], I am completely disgusted by what we have witnessed from the so-called President of the United States. That Donald Trump would open his mouth to criticize and threaten our state in the face of such a tragic and widespread natural disaster, is a shocking and utter disgrace. After receiving widespread criticism for his response to the California wildfires, Trump is now trying to walk back his inappropriate comments. However, I’m afraid that he is a day late and a dollar short, and the people of California will never forget his shameful lack of respect and compassion. “Donald Trump’s absolutely outrageous response to the California wildfires is yet another example of his lack of knowledge, his lack of compassion, and his inability to provide the type of leadership this country deserves in the midst of a crisis. How dare this president blame ‘gross mismanagement of the forests’[2] for these devastating wildfires without presenting any facts or any special knowledge? Instead of running his mouth about things he knows nothing about, he should learn to show some empathy and sympathy for the suffering of others. “How dare Trump threaten to strip federal funding from California at a time when our state and our families are most in need of assistance from their federal government? Brave men and women, first responders, and fire fighters are outraged at the way that he disparaged their work and their sacrifice – and I too am outraged. “Furthermore, when he finally visited California in an effort to clean up his despicable handling of this tragedy, how dare Trump state that Finland’s president told him that their country rarely had wildfires because of their ‘raking’ practices, which the Finnish president disputed ever mentioning.[3] When has this country ever witnessed a president who, instead of being a consoler and uniter, used a tragic moment like this to condemn and to criticize? “I applaud the efforts of our brave first responders, fire fighters, law enforcement agencies, and volunteers who have all selflessly risen to the call of duty and leadership in the complete absence of any from the White House. The thousands of Californians who have lost their loved ones, their homes, their communities, and their way of life as they once knew it, deserve better than this despicable president. If Donald Trump is not offering prayers, sympathy, and assistance to the people of California, he should keep his mouth shut.” ### [1] https://abcnews.go.com/US/relentless-california-wildfires-leave-84-dead-800-unaccounted/story?id=59262994 [2] https://www.cnn.com/2018/11/11/politics/california-wildfires-trump-tweets/index.html [3] https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/2018/11/18/trump-suggests-californians-can-rake-their-forests-prevent-wildfires-he-is-wrong/?utm_term=.0f82f95569f1
11.15.2018	Rep. Waters Opening Statement at Student Civil Rights Roundtable WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) hosted a Student Civil Rights Roundtable where she was joined by Members of Congress, civil rights advocates, and student leaders to discuss Education Secretary Betsy DeVos’ attacks on civil rights protections for students—particularly students of color, students with disabilities, transgender students, and survivors of sexual assault. During the roundtable, Congresswoman Waters led a lively discussion of the steps policymakers can take to better protect students, including her legislation, H.R. 6537, the Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act, which increases transparency in investigations conducted by the U.S. Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights in order to ensure that students’ civil rights are protected. Her remarks as prepared for delivery are below: Good afternoon and thank you for joining today’s Student Civil Rights Roundtable. We are gathered here today to sound the alarm on Education Secretary Betsy DeVos’ unconscionable attempts to turn back the clock on all of the progress we have made on behalf of students’ rights, and discuss steps policymakers can take to ensure that students’ civil rights are protected under the Trump Administration. Over the past two years, we have watched in horror as Education Secretary Betsy DeVos has launched a full-on attack on civil rights protections for students -- particularly students of color, students with disabilities, transgender students, and survivors of sexual assault. DeVos has indicated that she was considering revoking Obama-era guidance on school discipline, which was designed to address the wide disparity in school suspensions and expulsions of people of color, particularly African American students. DeVos has suggested that states – not the federal government – should enforce the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, and announced a two-year delay on enforcement of an Obama-era rule sought to create a uniform national standard to ensure that students from minority backgrounds are not overrepresented in special education. DeVos has also withdrawn protections for transgender students in public schools, which allowed students to use restrooms consistent with their gender identity in accordance with basic civil rights law under Title IX of the Education Amendment Act. Just yesterday, it was reported that DeVos will issue a sweeping overhaul of the rules on how colleges and universities handle sexual assault, which will prioritize the interests of the institutions and the accused, while undermining protections for survivors. Furthermore, DeVos’ Office for Civil Rights (OCR) has simply refused to properly enforce federal civil rights laws such as the Civil Rights Act, Title IX, and the Americans with Disabilities Act, while also failing to conduct credible investigations of civil rights complaints. Instead, the OCR has reportedly dismissed more than 1,200 civil rights complaints, as a result of a new, sham policy that allows the Education Department to disregard cases that they consider burdensome and eliminate students’ ability to appeal the department’s decision. As a remedy, I led 21 of my colleagues in introducing H.R. 6537, the Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act, which requires that the Education Department publish its civil rights related activities. Specifically, my bill would force the Education Department to disclose, among other requirements: Any student complaints dismissed for administrative or procedural reasons; The academic institutions that have been accused of violating students’ civil rights; Any resolution agreement between the Department and an academic institution; Instances in which the Department determines a complaint does not allege a civil rights violation; and, Any changes made to the manual used by the Department's Office for Civil Rights (OCR) to investigate complaints of civil rights violations. My bill is supported by a number of the nation’s leading civil rights organizations, including the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, the American Association of University Woman, the Human Rights Campaign, Futures Without Violence, the Feminist Majority Foundation, End Rape on Campus, and Know Your IX. I have circulated flyers that further outline my bill, which I encourage you to take with you and share freely. This is just one of the many topics that we will cover today. I have assembled a group of experts that have dedicated their careers to these issues. They are: Nicole Dooley, Policy Counsel at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund Jessica Davidson, the Executive Director of the advocacy group, End Rape on Campus Diane Smith Howard, the Legal Services Manager of the National Disability Rights Network Neena Chaudhry, the General Counsel of the National Women’s Law Center Liz King, the Director of Education Policy at the Leadership Conference on Civil & Human Rights David Stacy, the Government Affairs Director at the Human Rights Campaign Each of the participants will have an opportunity to speak on an important issue related to students’ civil rights, after which the group is welcome to comment and discuss their work and experiences on that issue. We will then reserve time for the students to ask their own questions, and raise concerns about what they’re seeing and experiencing. # # #
11.12.2018	Congresswoman Maxine Waters Salutes Veterans & Military Families LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) expressed her appreciation for the patriotic service and courageous sacrifice of veterans, servicemembers, and military families as she participated in several Veterans Day events across the 43rd Congressional District. “I extend my heartfelt gratitude to millions of courageous veterans and military families in California's 43rd District and across the country,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “Our veterans are real-life heroes, and we will forever be indebted to these brave men and women who have answered the call to serve in our nation’s military.” Congresswoman Waters obtained and presented U.S. Army Captain Moses R. Green with five medals that he earned, but never received, for his service during the Korean War. They include the Army Commendation Medal with Oak Leaf Clusters; the National Defense Service Medal; the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal; the United Nations Service Medal; and the Korean Defense Service Medal. Congresswoman Waters presented the awards to Captain Green and his family in Los Angeles on November 6, which was also Captain Green’s 90th birthday. Congresswoman Waters also joined the United States Veterans Initiative (U.S. Vets) for their Veteran’s Day Brunch on November 8 in Inglewood. During the event, Congresswoman Waters not only expressed her gratitude for servicemembers and their families, but she also discussed her legislative efforts on their behalf in Congress. On November 11, Congresswoman Waters joined military families across her district at the Veterans Day Family Freedom Festival in Hawthorne, which was hosted by the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Department of California District 4. “It continues to be my utmost honor to fight every day on behalf of servicemembers and their families in the U.S. Congress,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Just as we pledge to never leave a soldier on the battlefield, we must also ensure that they have health care, disability benefits, housing, higher education and training, and assistance to transition back into society and the civilian workforce when they return home from service.” Congresswoman Waters is one of the strongest advocates for veterans and military families in the U.S. Congress. She is the architect of the legislation that created the Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA) Center for Women Veterans, a special bureau within the VA that ensures healthcare benefits and other programs for women veterans. She also led efforts to enact legislation to obtain a 50-year lease for a building on the West Los Angeles VA grounds that established New Directions, a social service agency that provides housing and rehabilitation to homeless veterans, and she was responsible for the creation of the Gardena Community Based Outpatient Clinic that provides primary care and mental healthcare to veterans. Furthermore, Congresswoman Waters’ support for the veteran community in her district extends to her close partnerships with U.S. Vets, local chapters of the American Legion and Veterans of Foreign Wars, her nearly 20-year-old program through the Hawthorne Veterans of Foreign Wars that provides transportation for more than 200 veterans during the Thanksgiving holiday, and direct constituent services and case work through her Los Angeles office for veterans residing in the 43rd Congressional District. # # #
11.08.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on the Thousand Oaks, CA Shooting LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released a statement following the tragic shooting at the Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks, California that claimed 12 lives and injured at least 12 people: “Like so many across the country, I woke up this morning to the horrific news that our nation had endured yet another act of senseless violence, resulting in the loss of 12 lives and leaving at least 12 people injured at the Borderline Bar & Grill in Thousand Oaks, California. I extend my sincere condolences to the victims, their families, and all those who were impacted by this act of senseless violence. “These mass killings have become all too common and frequent. We now live in a time in which it appears no place is entirely safe from the threat of violence. Our movie theatres, concert venues, clubs, schools, college campuses, churches, and parks have all become backdrops to some of the deadliest shootings in United States history. “My heart aches for those who were lost and wounded, their loved ones, and the citizens of Thousand Oaks. The tragic circumstances of this shooting underscore the necessity of adding a robust dialogue about mental illness to our national discourse, while continuing to focus on the importance of sensible solutions to the urgent problem of gun violence in our society.” # # #
10.28.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on the Tree of Life Synagogue Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement on the tragic shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania that claimed 11 innocent lives and injured at least six others, including four police officers: “I am heartbroken by the horrific news that our nation has endured yet another act of senseless violence and hate, resulting in the loss of 11 innocent lives and leaving at least six people injured. I extend my sincere condolences to the victims, their families, and the entire Jewish community. The mass shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is a painful reminder of just how far we must go to root out anti-Semitism and mass violence in our country. I condemn anti-Semitism and violence, no matter where it comes from. Our resolve as a country must be to stand together in unity and love during such a difficult time. “There are so many questions surrounding this latest mass shooting, which now has the unfortunate distinction of being one of the deadliest anti-Semitic attacks in modern U.S. history. As we experienced during the massacres at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina, and First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas, these shootings are especially horrific when the gunman opens fire on families, friends, and children gathered to worship in what is, for so many, a sacred sanctuary in a world filled with chaos. We also know that the shooting was one in a long line of reprehensible acts of violence and hate against the Jewish community. According to the Anti-Defamation League, the number of reported anti-Semitic incidents in the United States surged 57 percent last year, which is the largest rise in a single year since the A.D.L. began tracking such crimes in 1979[1]. “Furthermore, this horrific shooting was one of three hate crimes and violent attacks over the past week – including the murder of two African Americans in Jeffersontown, Kentucky by a man who first attempted to enter a predominantly black church, and assassination attempts on two former presidents, sitting members of Congress, public servants, and private citizens – all of which point to a disturbing rise in extremism, hate, and violence in our country. As I have stated many times, peaceful protest, civil dissent, and robust debates of ideas are the foundation of our democracy. However, violence is never the answer. I condemn any and all acts of violence and terror. “My heart aches for those who were lost and wounded, their loved ones, and the entire nation as we pull together once again to overcome fear with strength, pride, and love in the face of hate and unconscionable violence.” # # # [1] https://www.nytimes.com/2018/02/27/us/anti-semitism-adl-report.html
10.24.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on Suspicious Package WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement: “I have been informed by U.S. Capitol Police that my Washington, DC office was the target of a suspicious package that has been referred to the FBI. I am appreciative of the law enforcement entities who intercepted the package and are investigating this matter. I unequivocally condemn any and all acts of violence and terror.” # # #
10.20.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on Indictment of Russian Involved in 2018 Midterm Election Interference Russian Efforts Targeted Rep. Maxine Waters & other Elected Officials WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on the indictment of a Russian, Elena A. Khusyaynova, who was charged by the U.S. Department of Justice for conspiracy to defraud the United States. According to media reports, Khusyaynova was the chief accountant for “Project Lakhta”-- a Russian influence operation prosecutors said was designed “to sow discord in the U.S. political system and to undermine faith in our democratic institutions.” Project Lakhta was funded by a Russian oligarch and close associate of Russian President Vladi­mir Putin, Yevgeniy Prigozhin, and two companies he controls, Concord Management and Consultants and Concord Catering, which were named in the July 2018 indictments, brought by Special Counsel Robert Mueller, involving attempted meddling in the 2016 election. “I would like to commend the efforts of the federal law enforcement and intelligence agencies that were responsible for identifying and charging a Russian who was involved in a sophisticated and well-financed campaign to ‘sow discord’ amongst the American people and interfere in the 2018 U.S. midterm elections. While much of the discussion regarding Russian interference in our democratic process has focused on the 2016 presidential election and Special Counsel Mueller’s probe, this indictment confirms that Russian efforts are not limited to presidential elections; they extend to the upcoming federal, state, and local elections that are just a few weeks away. “According to the indictment, I was one of the elected officials that was targeted by Russia’s ‘Project Lakhta,’ which allegedly used ‘the Twitter account @CovfefeNationUS to repost a Tweet encouraging readers to donate to a political action committee aiming to unseat’ me and other Members of Congress in the 2018 midterm elections. Disturbing as this may be, the efforts of those involved in Project Lakhta and other Kremlin-aligned groups that target U.S. elected officials and peddle falsehoods to the American public are not a new phenomenon. For example, just last year, I revealed that a Kremlin-linked account, @TEN_GOP, was targeting me and tweeting lies about my district. In February 2018, the @TEN_GOP account was explicitly mentioned in Special Counsel Mueller’s indictments as one of the many examples of foreign operated accounts existing solely to sow discord in the United States political system. My fear was then, and is today, that Russia will continue to attack my congressional colleagues and congressional candidates heading into the 2018 elections and beyond. Unfortunately, the latest indictment has proven this to be true. “With the 2018 elections a few weeks away, it is shameful that the current president of the United States and his Republican allies have continued to dismiss, deflect, and outright deny the real and present threat that Russian interference poses to our democracy. Instead, this president has sold out our democracy time and time again with his disgraceful embrace of Russian President Vladimir Putin. At every turn, he and his allies have undermined or obstructed federal and congressional investigations into Russian election meddling efforts in the United States. In the absence of real leadership from the commander-in-chief and the Republican-controlled Congress, it is imperative that elected officials at all levels of government act on the information that has been revealed so far, and work to ensure that our constituents fully understand the clear and immediate threat that Russia poses to our democratic process, national security, and most sacred traditions.” ###
10.19.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on GOP Plan to Cut Social Security, Medicare & Medicaid WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on GOP efforts to slash Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid due to the exploding federal deficit that was created by Donald Trump’s tax scam law: “Like so many Americans across this country, I was utterly appalled to learn that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is once again proposing devastating cuts to Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. It is a testament to their moral depravity and endless greed that the Republicans and Donald Trump would once again attempt to break the social safety net to pay for their GOP Tax Scam law. Through their actions and words, the Republicans and Trump have made it abundantly clear that they are willing to break the backs of working families and America's seniors to serve and enrich powerful corporations and Wall Street banks. “Social Security is a bedrock of American society. Signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1935, the Social Security Act has provided economic stability and retirement security to millions of hard working Americans. Prior to the passage of this landmark law, many American seniors were forced to live in abject poverty, and many slept on the streets. Social Security is financed by the payroll taxes seniors paid during their working years, and it provides financial security to more than 50 million seniors and disabled workers. Social Security keeps a roof over their heads and food on their tables. “Like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid are landmark programs that changed millions of lives since they were created by legislation signed into law by President Lyndon Johnson in 1965. Today, Medicare serves more than 55 million seniors and disabled workers, ensuring that they can see a doctor and pay for prescription drugs and costly medical procedures. Medicaid serves more than 70 million Americans, including more than 5 million low-income seniors, 10 million people with disabilities, and 28 million children. Medicare and Medicaid save lives, help people live longer, and provide the peace of mind that comes with affordable health care that is there when you need it. “Republicans have tried cutting Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid before, and the American people have always stood up to oppose them. In 2005, President George W. Bush proposed to privatize Social Security and allow Social Security funds to be invested in the stock market. If this plan had succeeded, seniors would have lost millions in the stock market crash a few years later. One would think by now that Republicans would have learned that the American people will not tolerate cuts to these essential programs. Yet most Republicans still care more about their wealthy friends and campaign donors than the middle class families that depend upon the benefits they have earned. “Last year, Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans slashed taxes for the wealthiest one percent and large corporations knowing full well that doing so would explode the federal deficit, cause millions of Americans to lose their health insurance, and jeopardize the economic well-being of hard working Americans. After the tax scam became the law of the land, Trump and his allies paraded around the country peddling false promises of more jobs that have not been created, raises that have not materialized, and tax cuts for working families that are modest at best and were temporary from the onset of this scheme. “Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell even had the audacity to predict that the tax cuts did not need to be paid for because they would pay for themselves. However, ten months later, the federal deficit has skyrocketed 17 percent to an astonishing $779 billion – due in large part to the GOP tax scam – and Majority Leader McConnell has stated that the rising federal debt is ‘very disturbing,’ but is ‘driven by the three biggest entitlement programs that are very popular: Medicare, Social Security and Medicaid,’ implying a need for sharp budget cuts to these vital programs. “This is a shameful and unconscionable proposition from one of the so-called leaders of a Republican-controlled Congress that has repeatedly sold out working families to do the bidding of Donald Trump. “I am outraged by McConnell’s announcement, and I intend to fight with every breath I have to protect seniors, veterans, children, and working families across our country. When the President of the United States, Mitch McConnell, and their Republican allies decide to risk the lives, health, and well-being of millions of hard working Americans and their families in order to subsidize the extravagant lifestyles of millionaires, billionaires, and powerful corporations with a tax scam, they must be held accountable.” # # #
10.17.2018	Congresswoman Waters Applauds Students’ Victory in Borrower Defense Ruling WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after a federal judge ruled that an Obama-era set of consumer protections for defrauded students, known as the Borrower Defense Rule, will go into effect immediately, after repeated attempts by the Trump Administration and the for-profit college sector to delay the regulation: “Students and student loan borrowers just won a monumental victory in federal court. For almost two years, Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and the Trump Administration have done everything they possibly could to block the 2016 Borrower Defense Rule—a set of regulations which allow students who have been defrauded by predatory schools to have their loans forgiven, and prevent schools from forcing students into binding arbitration. In defense of students nationwide, attorneys general from 19 states, including Attorney General Xavier Becerra from California, sued the Department of Education and Betsy DeVos.[1] I am extremely pleased that their efforts prevailed, and that tens of thousands of students who were taken advantage of by for-profit colleges will once again be able to receive the student loan debt relief they so desperately need and deserve. “The Borrower Defense ruling follows another recent court victory for students. In September 2018, Federal District Court Judge Randolph Moss ruled that Betsy DeVos’ attempts to get rid of the Borrower Defense Rule were without merit and illegal. Following this ruling, and fearing that the Borrower Defense Rule would go into effect, the for-profit college industry – in lock step with the Trump Administration -- sued to prevent the regulation from becoming law. Students and advocates were forced to wait for debt relief as the implementation of the 2016 pro-student Borrower Defense Rule was once again put on hold. However, the wait is now over. Donald Trump and Betsy DeVos’ shameful efforts to enrich private companies at the expense of students -- many of whom were veterans, people of color, and the most vulnerable in our society -- failed. Students and the American people won. This victory is just one of many to come. “This court ruling effectively made the Borrower Defense Rule the law of the land, and the Department of Education must begin implementing the rule without delay. Make no mistake, I will continue to hold Betsy DeVos and the Trump Administration accountable, and ensure that they do just that.” # # # [1] https://www.forbes.com/sites/zackfriedman/2018/09/17/student-loans-lawsuit-devos/#1482ac036323
10.09.2018	Congresswoman Waters Discusses Support for Local Businesses at Moog Aircraft Group Military Aircraft Support Center LOS ANGELES – As a continuation of her support for businesses in her district, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) visited Moog Aircraft Group’s Military Aircraft Customer Support Center in Torrance, CA. During the visit, Congresswoman Waters met with members of the center’s more than 500-person workforce -- many of whom are residents of the 43rd Congressional District -- and discussed her legislative efforts and advocacy for local import-export businesses, aerospace companies, and other industries located within her district. Moog Aircraft Group was founded in 1951 by William C. Moog Jr., the inventor of the electro-hydraulic servovalve -- a device that revolutionized aircraft and missile flight control systems. The company expanded to Torrance in the mid-1990s, and has emerged as a national leader in producing advanced flight controls for commercial and military aircraft. During the tour, Congresswoman Waters was briefed on the Torrance Support Center’s repair and overhaul services, as well as Moog Aircraft Group’s partnerships with the U. S. Department of Defense (DoD) and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which support advancements in critical military systems and safety measures for commercial air transport. “I am so pleased and proud that a company located in Torrance is making such significant strides, and creating jobs and economic opportunities for the talented men and women of the 43rd Congressional District,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “I applaud Moog Aircraft Group for developing new technologies that enhance the safety of aircraft around the world, and for continuing the great tradition of innovation from companies right here in our community." # # #
10.04.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Capitol Police ‘Doxing’ Arrest & Fraudulent Allegations Made by Right-Wing Trolls WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on the arrest of a suspect who was charged with “publicizing restricted personal information, witness tampering, second-degree burglary, threatening interstate communications, unauthorized use of a government computer, identity theft, and unlawful entry” following the doxing of United States Senators: “I want to thank the U.S. Capitol Police for their efforts to investigate, charge, and arrest the perpetrator behind the doxing of U.S. Senators. My office has been in contact with Capitol Police agents for many days since a member of my staff was falsely accused of this crime. I welcome yesterday's news regarding the arrest of a person unaffiliated with my office as vindication of my office and my staff. “However, I demand an apology and full retraction of all articles that falsely accused or implicated a member of my staff in the doxing of U.S. Senators. The irresponsible conduct of the right-wing pundits, websites, and blogs who spread this fraudulent claim resulted in targeted threats and cyberbullying of one of my staffers. As a result, my staffer’s home address, email, and telephone numbers were posted online, and the staffer sustained a deluge of vile and vicious phone calls and emails. The staffer was even forced to relocate due to safety concerns. I also urge the various social media sites, particularly Twitter, where this fraudulent claim was spread, to immediately remove all posts containing the personal information of my staffer and other reprehensible examples of cyberbullying against this innocent public servant that remain on their platforms. “There are several other instances where my office has informed the FBI, U.S. Capitol Police, and the Office of the General Counsel of the U.S. House of Representatives about the lies, defamation, and dirty tricks being levied on my staff and me – including an illegally forged document purporting to be from my office on congressional letterhead. I will work to ensure that any and all who are responsible for these tricks and illegal acts are identified and prosecuted.” # # #
10.01.2018	Congresswoman Maxine Waters Attends Behavioral Health Services Community Fair in Gardena Annual Fair for Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood, Los Angeles & Torrance Residents LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) joined Behavioral Health Services, Inc. (BHS) at the 7th Annual Art & Community Fair on Saturday, September 29 in Gardena. The event brought together hundreds of families from the 43rd Congressional District cities of Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood, Los Angeles, and Torrance for a day of health screenings, performances, and family-friendly activities. BHS is a non-profit community-based health care organization that provides substance abuse treatment, mental health treatment, drug-free transitional living, senior services, HIV/AIDS education and prevention, and other related health services in Southern California. Congresswoman Waters has been a strong supporter of BHS for over 20 years, and has advocated for, and secured, robust funding for federal grant programs through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that directly benefit BHS programs and services. “I am a longtime supporter of BHS, and I am proud to have worked closely with them for many years to educate, inform, and assist members of our community – particularly those who lack access to the quality and affordable health care they need and deserve,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “BHS is saving lives and doing excellent work, and I am pleased to be their champion in the U.S. Congress.” BHS was founded in 1973 with the mission of transforming lives by offering hope and opportunities for recovery, wellness, and independence. Since its founding, BHS has expanded to 21 sites, which include two chemical dependency recovery centers, three residential treatment facilities, twelve outpatient facilities, and four transitional living facilities. During BHS’ 2018 Arts & Community Fair, attendees received free health screenings, learned about health care services throughout Los Angeles County, and enjoyed family-friendly activities and live performances by local groups. Additionally, students in attendance received backpacks, school supplies, and prom dresses for the 2018 school year. # # # Photo Caption: Congresswoman Maxine Waters and BHS Chief Executive Officer, Shirley Summers, at the 2018 Behavioral Health Services Community Fair on Saturday, September 29. (Photo courtesy of Behavioral Health Services)
09.29.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on False Allegations Regarding the Leak of the Personal Information of U.S. Senators WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), issued the following statement today: “Lies, lies, and more despicable lies. I am utterly disgusted by the spread of the completely false, absurd, and dangerous lies and conspiracy theories that are being peddled by ultra-right wing pundits, outlets, and websites who are promoting a fraudulent claim that a member of my staff was responsible for the release of the personal information of Members of the United States Senate on Wikipedia. This unfounded allegation is completely false and an absolute lie. “The United States Capitol Police and our internal IT specialist have determined that the IP address in question does not belong to my office or anyone on my staff. The member of my staff – whose identity, personal information, and safety have been compromised as a result of these fraudulent and false allegations – was in no way responsible for the leak of this information. My office has alerted the appropriate authorities and law enforcement entities of these fraudulent claims. We will ensure that the perpetrators will be revealed, and that they will be held legally liable for all of their actions that are destructive and dangerous to any and all members of my staff.” # # #
08.22.2018	Rep. Maxine Waters Statement on Paul Manafort Guilty Verdict & Michael Cohen Guilty Plea WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Donald Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, who was found guilty by a federal jury on 8 counts of bank and tax fraud, and Trump’s personal attorney, Michael Cohen, who pleaded guilty to 8 violations of banking, tax and campaign finance laws: “A federal jury just found Donald Trump’s campaign chairman, Paul Manafort, guilty of eight counts of bank and tax fraud. Simultaneously, his personal attorney and so-called ‘fixer,’ Michael Cohen, appeared in a separate courthouse and pleaded guilty to eight charges, which include violating campaign finance laws at the direction of a ‘federal candidate’ – an unquestionable reference to Donald Trump, who is now also implicated in a federal crime. However, the crimes of Trump, Cohen, and Manafort are only the tip of the iceberg. I believe there is still, clearly, much more to come related to money laundering and other crimes involving an expanding group of Trump allies with questionable connections to Russia, including not only Manafort and Cohen, but also Donald Trump’s former deputy campaign chairman, Rick Gates; Donald Trump’s former National Security Advisor, Michael Flynn; Donald Trump’s former campaign foreign policy advisors George Papadopoulos and Carter Page; and Donald Trump’s Commerce Secretary, Wilbur Ross. When investigators and prosecutors follow the money and the patterns of misconduct, I believe the crimes of Donald Trump’s top aides are going to lead right into collusion and obstruction. “Paul Manafort’s ties to Vladimir Putin and Russia are well known. Manafort worked for years for pro-Russian interests; this work included a long business relationship with Russian billionaire and close Putin ally, Oleg Deripaska, as well as work for pro-Russia politician and former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych. Furthermore, despite being deeply in debt, Manafort volunteered his services to the Trump campaign free of charge,[1] and offered to provide briefings on the campaign to Oleg Deripaska[2] -- who we’ve also learned was owed millions of dollars by Manafort.[3] While he was found guilty in a Virginia court, Manafort still faces a second trial in a Washington, DC federal court on charges of lying to the FBI, money laundering and failing to register as a foreign lobbyist. “Similarly, let’s not forget about Michael Cohen’s close relationship with Felix Sater – a Russian-born real estate developer, convicted felon, and Trump ally with ties to organized crime. Cohen and Sater worked to reach a deal to build a Trump Tower in Moscow in the midst of the presidential election, which would, in Sater’s own words, ‘get Donald elected.’[4] In addition, it has also been reported that a shell company created by Cohen, Essential Consultants, received $500,000 in payments from a company controlled by a Russian oligarch, Viktor Vekselberg, who was sanctioned by the U.S. government for meddling in the 2016 U.S. election.[5] “Why is it that all of these aides, allies and associates of the president are connected in so many ways to Russia and Vladimir Putin, whom we know interfered in the 2016 presidential election on behalf of Donald Trump? It’s clear to me that Putin would like nothing more than for the Trump Administration to lift U.S. sanctions so that Russia can drill in the Arctic, and that Putin found in Michael Cohen, Felix Sater, Michael Flynn, and other members of Trump’s inner circle partners who were more than willing to oblige in exchange for support for Trump and the ability to compete in a new money playground in Russia. “Don’t be misled by the ridiculous lies and conspiracy theories being pedaled by this president or his attorney, Rudy Giuliani. This is not a witch hunt or fake news. These are real charges of criminal behavior. These are based on real facts, real evidence, and real testimony, and in the final analysis, all of this will lead to real articles of impeachment.” # # # [1] https://www.nytimes.com/2018/08/03/us/politics/paul-manafort-trump-campaign.html [2] https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/manafort-offered-to-give-russian-billionaire-private-briefings-on-2016-campaign/2017/09/20/399bba1a-9d48-11e7-8ea1-ed975285475e_story.html?utm_term=.afbe82727a73 [3] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/07/19/us/politics/paul-manafort-russia-trump.html [4] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/08/28/us/politics/trump-tower-putin-felix-sater.html [5] https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-russia-sanctions-renova/u-s-sanctions-on-vekselberg-have-1-5-2-billion-assets-frozen-sources-idUSKBN1HS0FB
08.13.2018	Congresswoman Waters: The Trump Administration Must Face Consequences for Violating Court Orders to Reunify Families WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement on the Trump administration’s failure to meet the court-ordered deadlines to reunite children with their parents. As of August 10, 500 children remain separated from their parents. “Donald Trump was ordered by a federal judge to reunify each of the more than 2,500 children that his administration recklessly separated from their parents by July 26. More than two weeks have passed since the deadline, and this president – a man who has proven that he has no respect for families or the rule of law – has failed to fully comply with the federal judge’s ruling. Furthermore, due to this administration’s gross incompetence, many of the remaining children in the Trump administration’s custody may now be permanently orphaned, as nearly 400 of their parents have already been deported. Enough is enough. The federal courts need to hold Donald Trump and his administration accountable. “Despite the federal judge’s ruling, the Trump administration argued that it didn’t need to reunify every family because some of the children were ‘ineligible’ for reunification with their parents. When the U.S. District Court Judge Dana Sabraw challenged this shameful excuse, the Trump administration had the audacity to argue that it was not their job to reunite separated families, and told the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) that if they have the resources then they should find the deported parents and clean up Donald Trump’s mess. However, this president and his administration cannot outsource their responsibilities to any other group or individual. Donald Trump and his administration created this heinous family separation crisis, and it’s Donald Trump and his administration’s responsibility to resolve it. “The federal judge has given the Trump administration ample time to reunite these innocent children with their parents. However, their failure to meet the court-ordered deadlines prove that this administration cannot be trusted to fully comply with the federal judge’s order on its own volition. Therefore, I believe any Trump administration officials -- including Attorney General Jeff Sessions and Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen -- who are directly overseeing the government’s family reunification efforts are in violation of a federal court order, and should be made to answer for that violation before a federal judge. If necessary, the federal judge should hold these officials in contempt of court. There must be consequences for failing to comply with federal court orders, and being held accountable before a federal judge is a necessary first step.” # # #
08.07.2018	Waters Statement on the Mendocino Complex Wildfire in Northern California LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on two wildfires, the Ranch and River fires, that make up the Mendocino Complex fire in Northern California. The Mendocino Complex fire is now the largest wildfire in modern California history. “I am alarmed by the Mendocino Complex wildfire in Northern California, which has destroyed 283,000 acres of land and left many homes and businesses in ruin, particularly in Mendocino, Lake and Colusa counties. It is now being reported that the Mendocino Complex fire has surpassed last year’s Thomas Fire, and now is the largest wildfire in modern California history. My thoughts and prayers are with all those who have been affected by these devastating wildfires. “Wildfires of this magnitude are traumatic events that have the potential to destroy whole communities and put many lives at risk. I commend and support the emergency personnel, first responders, volunteers and other unsung heroes who have, at the risk of their own lives and safety, worked tirelessly to contain the fires and assist those who have been impacted. “This year’s fire season has already proven to be one of the most destructive in modern history, with 18 wildfires blazing a destructive path across the state of California. I encourage all residents to heed the advice of local authorities related to evacuation and emergency preparedness. In the event of an emergency, please dial 911. For other information about California wildfires, please visit the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection’s (Cal Fire) website, www.calfire.ca.gov.” # # #
07.31.2018	Waters Mourns the Passing of Former U.S. Congressman Ron Dellums LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the death of former U.S. Congressman and former Mayor of Oakland, California, Ronald V. Dellums: “Yesterday, we lost yet another icon – my dear friend and former colleague, former Congressman Ron Dellums. Ron Dellums was an unabashed, progressive champion with an unwavering commitment to peace, equality, and justice. I extend my deepest sympathies to his wife, children, grandchildren, great-grandchildren, friends, and loved ones during this difficult time. “First elected to represent California’s 7th district in 1970, Ron Dellums was a strong advocate for people of color, the LGBTQ community, organized labor, women, and other vulnerable communities during his 13-term tenure in the U.S. Congress. “In 1971, Ron Dellums joined with 12 Members of Congress – including Louis Stokes, Bill Clay, Sr., and Shirley Chisholm – to found the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). Understanding the unique problems facing our community, these civil rights giants had the fortitude and wisdom to create a caucus that would provide the advocacy and leadership required in order to ensure that African Americans and other marginalized communities have the opportunity to achieve the American dream. True to its creed, the CBC remains the ‘Conscience of the Congress' today, and has grown to a historic 48 members. “Ron Dellums, a Marine Corps veteran, was one of the most outspoken opponents of the Vietnam War in Congress, and was at the forefront of the effort to educate the American public of war crimes that were committed during the Vietnam War[1]. Ron Dellums was also the first Member of Congress to call for the integration of gay and lesbian Americans in the U.S. military[2]. As a result of his leadership and expertise on issues related to the military and defense policy, Ron Dellums made history by becoming the first African American Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee. He was also the recipient of numerous awards, including a Lifetime Achievement Award from Peace Action, the nation’s largest grassroots peace network, and the U.S. Department of Defense’s Medal for Distinguished Public Service. “However, one of Ron Dellum’s greatest achievements is one that is also dear to my heart: ending apartheid in South Africa. As a member of the California State Assembly and a national board member of TransAfrica, one of the most prominent anti-apartheid advocacy groups in the United States, I had the privilege of working with Ron Dellums to fight for legislation at the state and federal level that forced the United States to divest from the apartheid regime in South Africa. As I fought for the 1986 passage of my bill, Assembly Bill 134, which made California the first state to divest its $12 billion in state pension funds tied to the apartheid regime in South Africa, Ron Dellums was simultaneously championing similar legislation in the U.S. Congress. As a result of a 14-year battle, his historic bill, the Comprehensive Anti-Apartheid Act of 1986, gained enough support to not only pass in both chambers of Congress, but to also override President Ronald Reagan’s veto. “Though he retired from Congress after 27 years of service, Ron Dellums maintained his dedication to his community and was elected mayor of his hometown, Oakland, California, in 2007. During his tenure, Ron Dellums focused heavily on educational initiatives, public safety, and economic growth in the City of Oakland. He is still celebrated for securing $23 million in federal stimulus funds for the City of Oakland through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act under President Barack Obama – second only to Chicago, Illinois, the president’s hometown.[3] “The incomparable Ron Dellums -- a passionate drum major for peace, inspiring community leader, effective politician, and lifelong public servant -- left an indelible mark on the City of Oakland and in the hearts of so many people across this country who also love him. Though our hearts are heavy, I join the Congressional Black Caucus and the entire U.S. Congress in celebrating his life and legacy. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones during their time of grief.” # # # [1] https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/obituaries/ronald-dellums-who-entered-congress-a-firebrand-and-left-a-statesman-dies-at-82/2018/07/30/cbc41d76-941c-11e8-810c-5fa705927d54_story.html?utm_term=.285466f97e24 [2] http://abc7news.com/politics/former-oakland-mayor-ron-dellums-dies/3848533/ [3] https://oaklandnorth.net/2009/12/10/mayor-and-staff-bask-in-the-glow-of-the-stimulus/
07.27.2018	Waters Introduces Bill to Ensure Student Civil Rights are Protected by Betsy DeVos WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced H.R. 6537, the Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act, which will increase transparency in investigations conducted by the Department of Education’s Office for Civil Rights in order to ensure that students’ civil rights are protected. “We have watched in horror as Education Secretary Betsy DeVos has launched a full-on assault on civil rights protections for students -- particularly students of color, students with disabilities, transgender students, and survivors of sexual assault -- all in the name of greater efficiency. However, a Department of Education that ignores its mandate to enforce federal civil rights laws isn’t efficient, it’s delinquent. Betsy DeVos’ failure to properly enforce civil rights laws necessitated my introduction of the Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act, which requires that the Education Department publish its civil rights related activities so we can better hold the Secretary accountable,” said Congresswoman Waters. Pursuant to 20 U.S. Code § 3413, the Education Department’s Office for Civil Rights (OCR) is responsible for ensuring federal civil rights laws are followed by our nation’s academic institutions. However, under Education Secretary Betsy DeVos, the Department is failing to do so. The Department revealed changes to OCR’s Case Processing Manual, which will eliminate an appeals process for students who reported civil rights violations and limit the time in which complainants can offer OCR investigators evidence. The Department also announced that it would begin reviewing civil rights cases in isolation of one another, reversing the prior practice of investigating whether civil rights violations are widespread or systemic; rescinded guidance that helped ensure that schools do not discriminate against transgender students; and, rescinded guidance which protects students from sexual assault and harassment on school campuses, among other disturbing actions. As a remedy, the Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act would require the Department to publicly disclose: The academic institutions that have been accused of violating students’ civil rights, as well as information on any complaints the Department declined to pursue and an explanation as to why they were declined; Any resolution agreement entered into between the Department and an academic institution, including the effectiveness of any corrective actions undertaken; Instances in which the Department determines a complaint does not allege a civil rights violation over which it has jurisdiction—for instance, if a student alleges discrimination based on gender identity and the Department does not consider that allegation to be a civil rights issue; Any changes made, in the preceding year, to the manual used by the Department's Office for Civil Rights (OCR) to investigate complaints of civil rights violations; and Any complaints dismissed for administrative or procedural reasons, and for such complaints, whether the Department offered the complainant the opportunity to correct the administrative or procedural error(s). The Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act is cosponsored by 21 Members of Congress. It is endorsed by the NAACP Legal Defense Fund (LDF), American Association of University Woman (AAUW), Human Rights Campaign, Futures Without Violence, Feminist Majority Foundation, End Rape on Campus, and Know Your IX. NAACP Legal Defense Fund “The Department of Education’s recent rollback of key civil rights measures, as well as its attacks on enforcement of laws designed to protect equal educational opportunities for our nation’s students, demonstrate the urgent need for oversight by the Department’s Office for Civil Rights. Congress and the public must have the information they need to provide oversight and hold OCR accountable to protect the civil rights of our country’s students.” Human Rights Campaign “From the earliest days of the Trump-Pence Administration, political appointees at the U.S. Department of Education have sought to cruelly and callously undermine the civil rights of transgender students, young people with disabilities and survivors of sexual assault throughout America’s schools,” said David Stacy, HRC’s Director of Government Affairs. “The public has a right to know whether the U.S. Department of Education is fulfilling its legal and moral responsibilities to investigate complaints and protect the civil rights of all students. As the nation’s largest LGBTQ civil rights organization, we support the Education Department Civil Rights Transparency Act and we thank Representative Waters for her leadership on this critical issue.” Know Your IX "Secretary DeVos has proven to us time and time again that she is not interested in doing her job. By quickly dismissing cases and refusing to investigate cases from transgender students DeVos has shown that she does not care to uphold students’ civil rights. It is essential that we hold the Trump Department of Education accountable by creating further transparency for students and their families. Know Your IX is thrilled to see Representative Waters taking action to shine a light on the DOE." # # #
07.23.2018	ICYMI – Congresswoman Waters on MSNBC: I Think Trump is Putin’s Apprentice WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, discussed Donald Trump’s meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Helsinki, Finland Sunday on MSNBC. Did Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin discuss the lifting of U.S. sanctions against Russia, and the upcoming U.S. elections? Rep. Maxine Waters joins Joy Reid on these allegations. “I think Trump is Putin's apprentice…. It’s about the sanctions.” Click Here to Watch the Video # # #
07.21.2018	Rep. Waters Statement Regarding Los Angeles Protests at Her District Office WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today: “I must once again reiterate that non-violent and peaceful protest is a right we are all entitled to under the Constitution. This is even true for a group as repugnant as the OathKeepers, an antigovernment militia known for its intimidation tactics and for protesting in military-style clothing while carrying assault weapons. Although I was very concerned about their planned protest at my office because of the group’s reputation for being armed, I honored their right to do so anyway. This is precisely why I implored the community through a widely distributed written statement to not engage the Oath Keepers and to refrain from staging a counter-protest in response to their militant tactics and racist rhetoric. “Many people from within the community heeded my advice and steered clear of the event, but there were groups of individuals who felt compelled to participate and show their support for me despite my request. While most of those counter-protesters remained peaceful, I have learned that there were others in attendance who were not necessarily from the 43rd District, but who nevertheless participated as counter-protesters not so much in support of me, but to seek press attention in furtherance of their own agendas. Unfortunately, this group’s actions with respect to the American flag, and their passing physical contact with other protestors, has created fodder for partisan media outlets to exploit and overshadowed the majority of counter-protesters who engaged in peaceful demonstrations. “While I do not agree with torching the flag as a form of protest, I understand the Constitution guarantees everyone the right to this form of free expression. However, physical violence, or even the perceived threat of violence, is not an acceptable way to protest injustice today and can never be tolerated. “I am thankful to those who did not take the Oath Keepers’ bait and further the group’s efforts to inflame, divide, and disrupt our community. I am also appreciative of those from within the community who remained peaceful. “I continue to support peaceful protest and disavow all forms of violence against others who may not share our community’s values. Furthermore, I do not take a backseat to anyone on patriotism and my respect for the Constitution. As a Member of Congress, I will always honor and respect the law and encourage everyone to do the same.” # # #
07.20.2018	Waters Introduces Resolution in Honor of National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a leading advocate in Congress for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment, introduced a resolution (H.Res. 1004) in the House of Representatives yesterday in honor of National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, which is celebrated every year on July 21st. The resolution is cosponsored by 23 Members of Congress. “I am proud to have supported National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day since its founding in 2008,” said Congresswoman Waters. “This important day is an opportunity to highlight the critical role that doctors, nurses, dentists, and other clinicians play in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, and treatment efforts. It is also an opportunity to encourage clinicians to promote HIV testing among their patients.” H.Res. 1004 urges physicians, nurses, dentists, and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. “More than 1.1 million people are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and about 14 percent do not know they are infected. By encouraging their patients to be tested for HIV, doctors and nurses can enable infected individuals to access appropriate medical care and begin taking action to avoid spreading the virus to others,” said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is a leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998. On March 19th of this year, she sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2019, which was signed by 85 other Members of Congress. Furthermore, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1882), a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons; H.R. 1882 is cosponsored by 37 of her colleagues. ###
07.18.2018	Rep. Waters Pays Tribute to Nelson Mandela WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, gave a speech on the House Floor to pay tribute to the late South African President Nelson Mandela on what would have been his 100th birthday. Her remarks, as prepared for delivery, are below. A video can be found here. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to honor the life and legacy of South African President Nelson Mandela on what would have been his 100th birthday. President Mandela, or ‘Mandiba’ as he was affectionately called, was a revolutionary and transformative leader who forever changed the world through his steadfast dedication to freedom, equality, and human rights. After spending 27 years in prison, Nelson Mandela became the first black South African to be elected President in what was also the first free, multi-racial, democratic election in South African history. While President Mandela used his administration to dismantle apartheid, combat institutional racism, and begin the process of racial reconciliation in his country, his efforts also taught the world the power of one man having the fortitude to sacrifice his own ideals for a cause greater than himself. To me, Nelson Mandela is more than a world-renowned hero. I had the distinct honor and privilege of calling him a friend. His leadership of the international anti-apartheid movement encouraged me to take action here in the United States where I served as the Los Angeles Chair of the Free South Africa Movement, organized countless anti-apartheid rallies in Los Angeles, led a sit-in at the South African Consulate General Office in Los Angeles, and was even arrested during a protest at the South African Embassy in Washington, DC. I was also a board member of, and worked nationally with, TransAfrica, one of the most prominent anti-apartheid advocacy groups in the United States. As a member of the California State Assembly, I fought for the passage of Assembly Bill 134 which forced California to divest $12 billion in state pension funds tied to the apartheid regime in South Africa. In 1990, I chaired the committee in Los Angles that brought over 90,000 people together in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to welcome Nelson Mandela into the United States, and I also traveled with the official United States delegation to South Africa in 1994 to attend his inauguration as President of South Africa. In 1998, I was honored to welcome President Mandela to the United States once again, this time to receive the U.S. Congressional Gold Medal. In honor of his 95th birthday in 2013, I organized an event called the “Celebration of the Life, Legacy and Values of Nelson R. Mandela” in Emancipation Hall of the United States Capitol Visitor's Center. The celebration was attended by my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus, leaders from both the United States House and the Senate, and representatives of national and international civil right and humanitarian groups. As we reflect on Nelson Mandela’s memory today, let us remember when he once said, ‘What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead.' Few embody this quote better than Nelson Mandela himself, and it is my sincere hope that my own career in public service lives up to his extraordinary example. # # #
07.18.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on Oath Keepers Protest WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today: “I have been notified that the Oath Keepers, an antigovernment militia that has staged armed protests in cities across the country, is planning to protest my district office in Los Angeles tomorrow afternoon. I am requesting those individuals and groups planning a counter-protest to not be baited into confronting the Oath Keepers with any demonstrations in opposition – such an occurrence would only exacerbate tensions and increase the potential for conflict. The Oath Keepers have a history of engaging in violent and provocative behavior. The group is known to protest in military-style clothing while carrying various assault weapons. The Oath Keepers would like nothing more than to inflame racial tensions and create an explosive conflict in our community. In order to ensure the peace and security of our community, it is best and preferable if no other demonstrations are scheduled on the same date and time as the Oath Keepers’ planned protest. “As I have stated many times, peaceful protest and civil dissent is the foundation of our democracy. All groups and individuals have the right to assemble and express their opposition to public officials and public policies – regardless of whether or not it is a group that shares our values. Nevertheless, because of the Oath Keepers’ history of promoting violence and intimidation, my primary concern is to maintain the safety and security of the protestors, staff, and constituents of California’s 43rd Congressional District – a task that would be exceedingly complicated by large crowds of protestors and counter-protestors. “The Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) will have officers and personnel on site tomorrow to ensure safety and security.” ###
07.11.2018	Waters Calls for the Immediate Reunification of Children with their Parents WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services, issued the following statement on the Trump administration’s failure to meet the first court-ordered deadline to reunite migrant children with their parents: “Due either to complete incompetence, deliberate indifference, or both, Donald Trump and his administration failed to fully comply with one of the first court ordered deadlines to reunite the innocent children who they viciously separated from their parents. Despite the president’s attempts to divert attention from the crisis, the fact remains that thousands of children have not been returned to their families. These children were separated from their parents, sent hundreds of miles away, and housed in literal cages by the Trump administration. This is a national disgrace and a stain on our democracy. “Donald Trump is responsible for this despicable humanitarian crisis at the Southern border, and now he has demonstrated that he lacks the ability to develop a comprehensive and verifiable plan to solve the problem he created. The Trump administration failed to implement an effective system for identifying and reconnecting children with their parents before executing their ‘zero tolerance’ policy. As a result, they have been unable to accurately report the number of children in their custody, the location of each child, and the immigration status of their parents – many of whom have already been deported. Adding insult to injury, it was also revealed that one of the detained children under age 5 is actually an American citizen. Such a mistake should never happen, and should shock every American to their core. After failing to meet the court’s July 10 deadline to simply reunite all the children in their custody under the age of 5 with their parents, the Trump administration requested a deadline extension from the court, citing a litany of excuses. This administration’s lack of a plan to promptly reunite the younger children with their families is compounded by the fact that they still have no plan to reunite the remainder of the children – more than 2000 children over the age of 5 – who also remain in their custody. “Because of their lack of caring and competence, Donald Trump and his attorney general, Jeff Sessions, have traumatized thousands of children and families – many of whom are seeking refuge from the very type of mistreatment in which they are now confronted with upon arrival to the greatest democracy in the world. Every parent cannot help but think about the pain and heartbreak they would experience if the government took their children away from them in this fashion, and every patriotic American should be appalled by the harm that this president has inflicted on children. We must all exercise our First Amendment right to speak out against this unconscionable family separation crisis. I reiterate my call for this administration to repair the damage it recklessly caused and reunify every family immediately. I urge my colleagues in Congress to make every effort to ensure that these children are reconnected with their parents, and if the crisis proves impossible to fully solve, Congress must hold those who are responsible accountable.” # # #
06.28.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on Annapolis Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement following the tragic shooting this afternoon at the Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Maryland, in which at least five people were killed: “I am deeply saddened to learn of yet another mass shooting this afternoon, this time targeting the Capital Gazette newspaper in Annapolis, Maryland. This is yet another horrific and reprehensible incident that has resulted in the tragic loss of at least five innocent lives, and injuries to others. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families. “My heart aches for those who were lost and wounded, their loved ones, the staff of the Capital Gazette, and the people of Annapolis. It is my sincere hope that we find a way to end the constant threat posed by guns in the hands of violent people in our society. Let us stand together and overcome fear with strength, respect, and pride in the face of unconscionable violence.” ###
06.28.2018	Congresswoman Waters Statement on Death Threats WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement today: “I have in recent months observed an increase in death threats, from men around the country, because of my opposition to the Trump Administration’s policies. Most recently, Anthony Scott Lloyd, a Trump supporter in California, pleaded guilty to threatening me in a voicemail he left on my office line in October 2017. Mr. Lloyd acknowledged that, as a ‘pro-president supporter,’ his animosity towards me was fueled by a radio program discussing public comments I made about the President last year. Mr. Lloyd wrote: ‘What you said at your little faggot conference, if you continue to make these threats towards the President, you’re going to wind up dead, Maxine, because we will kill you…You can call the FBI, you can call the NSA, you can call whoever the fuck you want and report this and try to get a surge or some kind of fucking phone number. Bitch, you do it again, you’re dead. You’re a fucking dead ass nigger.’ “Now, because of my support for the American people’s Constitutional right to protest the Administration’s current practice of locking up immigrant children in cages, the President has amplified his attacks against me at his rallies and on a social media. As the President has continued to lie and falsely claim that I encouraged people to assault his supporters, while also offering a veiled threat that I should ‘be careful’, even more individuals are leaving threating messages and sending hostile mail to my office. There was one very serious death threat made against me on Monday from an individual in Texas which is why my planned speaking engagements in Texas and Alabama were cancelled this weekend. This is just one of several very serious threats the United States Capitol Police are investigating in which individuals threatened to shoot, lynch, or cause me serious bodily harm.” # # #
06.27.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Supreme Court Decision on Public Sector Unions WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the Supreme Court issued a ruling in the Janus v. American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) on the collection of public sector union fees: “I am deeply disappointed by the Supreme Court’s decision in the Janus case to prevent public sector unions from collecting ‘fair share fees’ for legally required services. This decision changes a 40-year-old precedent which previously allowed unions to collect these ‘fair share fees’ from non-member employees who benefit from collective bargaining. Billionaires, corporations, and other interests have spent millions of dollars on court cases challenging unions. These court cases have been nothing more than political attacks on the freedom of employees across the country to come together and be heard. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court has sided against workers and in favor of wealthy and powerful corporate interests. The Supreme Court got it wrong. “Unions have been a frequent target of Donald Trump’s administration and Republicans across the country, but nothing will stop them from remaining a powerful voice for working families in this country. Today's decision only underscores how important it is that we fully support unions as they fight for better wages, retirement benefits, and a higher standard of living for working families. I will continue to support unions in their efforts to fight for workers’ rights and freedoms.” # # #
06.20.2018	Waters on the House Republican FY 2019 Budget Proposal The House GOP Budget Prioritizes One Constituency: the Wealthiest 1% WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after the House Republican Conference revealed its fiscal year 2019 budget proposal: “Budget proposals are a statement of the federal government’s values and priorities. As such, House Republicans’ fiscal year 2019 proposal sends an unambiguously clear message to the American people: their top priority is advancing the interests of the wealthiest one percent over the needs of working families, seniors, veterans, and the most vulnerable among us. “After selling out the middle class with a shameful tax scam law that adds more than $2 trillion to the federal deficit, House Republicans have set their sights on destroying the federal safety net in order to make up for their devious giveaway to the rich. Their outrageous and immoral fiscal year 2019 budget proposal would cut $537 billion from Medicare, $1.5 trillion from Medicaid, and $2.6 trillion from other anti-poverty programs that provide housing, nutrition, health services, and education to Americans throughout the country. Furthermore, the Republican proposal lays the groundwork for another cruel attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), which would strip health coverage from millions of Americans.[1] “For nearly 18 months, Republicans, who have control of both the legislative and executive branches of government, have proven time and time again that their party is both unable to govern and unwilling to do what is in the best interest of the American people. I not only oppose this budget, but I condemn any and all efforts by the president and Congressional Republicans to line the pockets of the rich while denying seniors, veterans, working families, and the poor the quality of life they deserve.” # # # [1] http://thehill.com/policy/finance/393028-house-gop-2019-budget-calls-for-deep-medicare-medicaid-spending-cuts
06.20.2018	Waters Condemns Donald Trump’s Policy of Separating Children from their Parents at the Border Co-Sponsors Bi-cameral Legislation to End Family Separation WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, joined more than 190 House Democrats in introducing the Keep Families Together Act, H.R. 6135, which would end the Trump Administration’s family separation policy at the U.S. border. The legislation was spearheaded by Congressman Jerrold Nadler (NY-10), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee, and is the House companion to legislation introduced by California’s senior U.S. Senator Diane Feinstein (D-CA), Senate Judiciary Committee Ranking Member. “When one hears disturbing news reports that children are being ripped out of the arms of their parents only to be held in detention centers where they are locked in cages, are forced to sleep on cement floors, and are only allowed to go outdoors for limited periods of time, one would think that those reports are describing conditions under the rule of a callous dictator – not the President of the United States. Unfortunately, Donald Trump and his racist, Jim Crow-era throwback Jeff Sessions have unleashed the full power of the executive branch to target, terrorize, and traumatize children and families – many of whom are seeking refuge from the very type of mistreatment in which they are now confronted with upon arrival to the greatest democracy in the world. This is a national disgrace. “It should come as no surprise that, when confronted with bipartisan backlash from critics of his inhumane policy to separate children from their parents at the U.S. border, Donald Trump – a man who has been caught in more than 3000 times documented lies since taking the oath of office – and members of his administration, have repeatedly lied to the American people. Trump has blamed the Democrats, and Jeff Sessions even scapegoated the Bible, in a wicked and insulting attempt to cover the truth: it is Donald Trump’s policy to separate children from their parents; it is Donald Trump’s Department of Justice that is enforcing his policy; and it is Donald Trump, Jeff Sessions, and their ultra-right wing allies on Capitol Hill that refuse to end these evil, unjust, and inhumane intimidation tactics at the border. “Do not be misled by the lies from the president and his allies. This is Donald Trump’s immoral and inhumane family separation policy, which he could end with a simple phone call or the stroke of a pen. Furthermore, Congressional Republicans have failed to support commonsense legislative solutions. Instead, they are debating two proposals, H.R. 6136 the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act of 2018 (the ‘Ryan bill’) and H.R. 4760 the Securing America’s Future Act (the ‘Goodlatte bill’), that fail to that fail to adequately fix the problem. In the absence of moral leadership from the Republican party, I am proud to join my Democratic colleagues in both chambers of the U.S. Congress in supporting the Keep Families Together Act,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. The full text of the legislation can be found here. The Keep Families Together Act would: · Keep Families Together: The bill promotes family unity by prohibiting Department of Homeland Security (DHS) officials from separating children from their parents, except in extraordinary circumstances. In these limited circumstances, separation could not occur unless parental rights have been terminated, a child welfare agency has issued a best interest determination, or the Port Director or the Chief Border Patrol agent of Customs and Border Protection (CBP) have approved separation due to trafficking indicators or other concerns of risk to the child. It requires an independent child welfare official to review any such separation and return the child if no harm to the child is present. It imposes financial penalties on officials who violate the prohibition on family separation. · Limit Criminal Prosecutions for Asylum Seekers: The majority of the parents separated at the border are being criminally prosecuted for illegal entry or re-entry. This bill restricts the prosecution of parents who are asylum seekers by adopting the recommendation of the DHS Office of Inspector General. The bill delays prosecutions for illegal entry or re-entry for asylum seekers and creates an affirmative defense for asylum seekers. It also codifies our commitment to the Refugee protocol prohibiting the criminal punishment of those seeking protection from persecution. · Increase Child Welfare Training: The bill requires all CBP officers and agents to complete child welfare training on an annual basis. Port Directors and Chief Border Agents, those who are authorized to make decisions on family separations, must complete an additional 90 minutes of annual child-welfare training. · Establish Public Policy Preference for Family Reunification: The bill establishes a preference for family unity, discourages the separation of siblings, and creates a presumption that detention is not in the best interests of families and children. · Add Procedures for Separated Families: The bill requires DHS to develop policies and procedures allowing parents and children to locate each other and reunite if they have been separated. Such procedures must be public and made available in a language that parents can understand. In cases of separation, it requires DHS to provide parents with a weekly report containing information about a child, and weekly phone communication. · Establish Other Required Measures: In order to inform Congressional oversight and promote public understanding of the use family separation, the bill requires a report on the separation of families every six months. # # #
06.20.2018	Waters Offers Amendments to Provide Treatment for all Substance Abuse Disorders – Rather than only Opioid Addiction Three Amendments Would Expand Access to Medicaid & Conduct Research for Comprehensive Substance Abuse Treatment WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, offered amendments to two bills, H.R. 5797 and H.R. 6, which are aimed at addressing the opioid epidemic. Rep. Waters’ amendments would expand access to Medicaid for the treatment of all substance abuse disorders – rather than only the treatment of opioid abuse -- and would direct the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to develop a comprehensive and evidence-based plan for the treatment of all substance abuse disorders. “For far too long, many communities throughout the United States have been devastated by substance abuse. However, despite the widespread suffering that millions of people – particularly African Americans during the crack cocaine epidemic – endured and still endure today, our federal, state, and local governments, in many instances, have pursued punitive measures in lieu of compassionate, common-sense, and comprehensive substance abuse disorder treatment. As the U.S. Congress debates a number of proposals that are narrowly focused on addressing the opioid epidemic, I believe it is imperative that we examine and confront the full range of substance abuse disorders in this country – including alcohol, cocaine, heroin, and methamphetamines – in order to ensure that all communities can adequately heal from the impacts of addiction. I am proud to have offered three amendments that will conduct the research required for the development of a concrete, evidence-based plan to address all types of substance abuse disorders, and in the interim, will provide the resources needed to meet the health and rehabilitative care needs of individuals suffering from these devastating disorders,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. Congresswoman Waters’ first two amendments were made to H.R. 5797 – The Individuals in Medicaid Deserve Care that is Appropriate and Responsible in its Execution Act: An Amendment to Treat All Substance Abuse Disorders: The amendment expands the option for states to use Medicaid funds for treatment in Institutions for Mental Disease (IMDs) to include treatment for all types of substance abuse disorders, rather than only treatment for opioid abuse disorders. An Amendment to Promote Medicaid Expansion: The amendment requires states to expand Medicaid pursuant to the Affordable Care Act as a condition for using Medicaid funds to treat people with opioid abuse disorders in an IMD facility. Expanding access to Medicaid will benefit patients with substance abuse disorders, regardless of the type of addiction from which they suffer and ensure that treatment services are not limited to patients with opioid abuse disorders. It will also ensure that treatment options are not restricted to inpatient treatment in an IMD-style institution, but are also available in the form of outpatient services in the local community. Congresswoman Waters’ third amendment was made to H.R. 6 – SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act: Survey on Unmet Substance Abuse Treatment Needs: The amendment would direct the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to conduct a nationwide survey of the organizations, government agencies, and other entities that provide substance use disorder treatment services. Furthermore, based on the results of that survey, the amendment directs HHS to develop, and submit to Congress, a plan to direct appropriate resources to address the inadequacies in services or funding identified through the survey. This survey is intended to complement the existing efforts of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to examine those services in order to develop a concrete plan to address unmet needs in treatment services nationwide. # # #
06.15.2018	Waters & 100 Members of Congress Urge United Nations to Fulfill its Obligation to Support Victims of the Cholera Epidemic in Haiti WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee and a strong advocate for Haiti in the U.S. Congress, led a total of 101 Members of Congress in a bipartisan letter to the Honorable António Guterres, Secretary-General of the United Nations (UN), urging him to ensure that the UN meets its obligations and effectively repairs the harms caused by the cholera epidemic in Haiti. “We write as friends of Haiti in the United States Congress to urge you to ensure that the United Nations complies with its legal and moral obligations to provide appropriate remedies to victims of Haiti’s devastating cholera epidemic. As you know, cholera was introduced into Haiti in 2010 by United Nations peacekeepers as a result of the improper disposal of human waste, which contaminated a local river. The resulting epidemic has killed approximately 10,000 Haitians and infected several hundred thousand people in total…. Despite the progress since 2016, we are increasingly concerned that the UN is failing to fulfill its important promises and appears unwilling to engage in meaningful consultations with victims about their perspectives on compensation.... After so much progress, it would be a tragedy if the United Nations were to break its promises…. We urge you to personally lead efforts to ensure that the UN’s new spirit of partnership with Haiti meets its obligations and effectively repairs the harms caused by cholera,” wrote the Members. The full text of the letter follows. A pdf version can be found here. June 14, 2018 The Honorable António Guterres Secretary-General The United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Secretary-General Guterres: We write as friends of Haiti in the United States Congress to urge you to ensure that the United Nations complies with its legal and moral obligations to provide appropriate remedies to victims of Haiti’s devastating cholera epidemic. As you know, cholera was introduced into Haiti in 2010 by United Nations peacekeepers as a result of the improper disposal of human waste, which contaminated a local river. The resulting epidemic has killed approximately 10,000 Haitians and infected several hundred thousand people in total. We are concerned that the UN’s 2016 plan – the “New Approach to Cholera in Haiti” (New Approach) – to eliminate cholera and provide redress for victims is not meeting victims’ rights and needs, despite the UN’s promises to place victims “at the centre” of its work.[1] In particular, we are concerned that, although you have expressed your personal commitments to a “new spirit of partnership” with the Haitian people and “meaningful community and individual consultations with victims of cholera,”[2] the UN appears unwilling to provide compensatory payments to cholera victims or engage directly with those affected about their needs and priorities for compensation. The UN’s acceptance of moral responsibility for the cholera epidemic in 2016 was a welcome development. Then Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon apologized to the Haitian people, and the UN launched the New Approach to Cholera in Haiti. The New Approach is a significant commitment not only to cholera elimination efforts, but also to addressing victims’ right to redress by delivering a “package of material assistance and support to those Haitians most directly affected by the cholera epidemic.” The New Approach also represents a significant commitment to developing that package in consultation with victims and local communities.[3] We applaud your personal commitment to delivering on the promises of the New Approach, and we commend your pledge to do so through genuine consultation and dialogue with victims, as you articulated in your 2017 op-ed in the Miami Herald. Furthermore, we are proud that the United States Congress recently appropriated $10 million to support the material assistance package promised in the New Approach. Despite the progress since 2016, we are increasingly concerned that the UN is failing to fulfill its important promises and appears unwilling to engage in meaningful consultations with victims about their perspectives on compensation. The UN also seems determined to assist victims through charity-based community development projects only, despite pledging in the New Approach to consult victims about their needs and consider the possibility of providing direct payments to the most affected households. The UN’s unwillingness to follow through with its commitment to consider compensating victims directly is particularly concerning given the economic devastation that cholera has wrought on Haitian households. Cholera deaths and illnesses have grave ripple effects, especially for the poor. Families borrow money to pay for funerals and cannot repay their debts; families who lose breadwinners plunge deeper into poverty; and children are pulled out of school. The Haitian government estimates that thousands of children have been orphaned and thus may become another generation condemned to poverty. We question whether community projects alone will redress the harms to affected families and allow them to recover. We are also troubled that it appears that the UN is, once again, dismissing legitimate calls from cholera victims and their advocates for compensation, and ignoring its legal obligations to provide effective remedies. After so much progress, it would be a tragedy if the United Nations were to break its promises. We respectfully request that you explain the steps the UN has taken to explore providing direct payments to cholera-affected households and to meaningfully consult victims about the development of the promised material assistance package. We urge you to personally lead efforts to ensure that the UN’s new spirit of partnership with Haiti meets its obligations and effectively repairs the harms caused by cholera. We look forward to working with you to ensure that the promises made to Haiti are kept. Sincerely, Members of Congress [1] “A new approach to cholera in Haiti: Report by the Secretary-General” (A/71/620) (paragraph 26) (online at https://reliefweb.int/sites/reliefweb.int/files/resources/N1639267.pdf). [2] António Guterres, “Op-Ed: U.N. is committed to partnership with Haiti that works,” Miami Herald (Nov. 1, 2017) (online at www.miamiherald.com/opinion/op-ed/article182199506.html). [3] “New UN System Approach on Cholera in Haiti” (online at http://www.un.org/News/dh/infocus/haiti/Haiti_UN_System_Cholera_Dec16.pdf).
06.14.2018	Waters: Trump’s Decision to Strip Coverage for Preexisting Conditions is Especially Harmful for African Americans WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the announcement that the Trump Administration filed a legal brief in a Texas federal court that urges the court to strike down the Affordable Care Act’s provisions preventing insurance companies from denying insurance coverage or charging consumers more if they have pre-existing conditions: “For more than a year, we have witnessed Donald Trump’s failed attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and strip health coverage from millions of Americans. After suffering numerous embarrassing defeats in Congress, the president, in lockstep with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, has set his sights on sabotaging Obamacare through the judicial system. Their latest act of desperation entails a heartless argument that federal judges should eliminate parts of the law that protect approximately 52 million Americans from being denied coverage or charged higher premiums for their insurance merely because of a preexisting condition. “For African Americans, who are disproportionately affected by cancer, heart disease, HIV, asthma, diabetes, obesity, and sickle cell disease, the impacts of Trump’s decision to strip such protections would be devastating. Prior to the passage of Obamacare, millions of men, women, and children from our communities lacked access to affordable healthcare and died from preventable illnesses. However, under the current law, insurance companies have been unable to refuse to cover consumers, raise the cost of insurance premiums because of a prior illness, place cruel lifetime limits on insurance coverage, or simply drop consumers if they become sick. The Trump Administration’s decision to urge the courts to strip such protections from the American people proves that Donald Trump, Jeff Sessions, and their conservative allies are more concerned with lining the pockets of insurance company executives than ensuring that working families are protected from being denied coverage because of preexisting conditions, which could include diseases like Alzheimer’s, diabetes, cancer, or even pregnancy. “Obamacare is by no means a perfect law, and I have always been an advocate for reaching a bipartisan agreement that ensures every American has access to the quality and affordable health care they deserve. However, Donald Trump and his administration have proven that they are not only disinterested in expanding health coverage and protections for the American people, but that they are willing to take extreme measures to undermine Obamacare regardless of the devastating impact upon people of color, the poor, disabled Americans, children, veterans, seniors, and people with preexisting conditions.” # # #
06.14.2018	Waters Statement on Trump’s Use of the Courts to Deny Americans Healthcare Coverage for Preexisting Conditions WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the announcement that the Trump Administration filed a legal brief in a Texas federal court that urges the court to strike down the Affordable Care Act’s provisions preventing insurance companies from denying insurance coverage or charging consumers more if they have pre-existing conditions: “For more than a year, we have witnessed Donald Trump’s failed attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) and strip health coverage from millions of Americans. After suffering numerous embarrassing defeats in Congress, the president, in lockstep with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, has set his sights on sabotaging Obamacare through the judicial system. Their latest act of desperation entails a heartless argument that federal judges should eliminate parts of the law that protect approximately 52 million Americans from being denied coverage or charged higher premiums for their insurance merely because of a preexisting condition. “Since its passage, Obamacare has protected millions of Americans by denying insurance companies the ability to refuse to cover consumers because of a prior illness. Under the current law, insurance companies have also been unable to place cruel lifetime limits on insurance coverage or simply drop consumers if they become sick. The Trump Administration’s decision to urge the courts to strip such protections from the American people proves that Donald Trump, Jeff Sessions, and their conservative allies are more concerned with lining the pockets of insurance company executives than ensuring that working families are protected from being denied coverage because of preexisting conditions, which could include diseases like Alzheimer’s, diabetes, cancer, or even pregnancy. “Obamacare is by no means a perfect law, and I have always been an advocate for reaching a bipartisan agreement that ensures every American has access to the quality and affordable health care they deserve. However, Donald Trump and his administration have proven that they are not only disinterested in expanding health coverage and protections for the American people, but that they are willing to take extreme measures to undermine Obamacare regardless of the devastating impact upon working families, disabled Americans, children, veterans, seniors, and people with preexisting conditions.” # # #
06.13.2018	Waters Statement on Donald Trump's Embrace of our Enemies & Hostility Toward our Allies WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement at the conclusion of Donald Trump’s summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un in Singapore, his visit to the Group of Seven Summit in Canada, and his administration’s announcement of steel and aluminum tariffs on the European Union, Canada, and Mexico: “Donald Trump loves to refer to himself as a ‘deal-maker,’ but in reality, his bluster on the world stage over the past week has only isolated the United States from our allies and played right into the hands of two of our most dangerous enemies, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and Russian President Vladimir Putin. “In a reckless departure from protocols established by previous administrations and an arrogant defiance of recommendations from national security experts and Members of the U.S. Congress, Donald Trump convened the Singapore Summit with North Korean leader Kim Jong Un without adequate preparation, a thorough understanding of history, or a clear objective for securing North Korea’s nuclear disarmament. As a result, Donald Trump naively entered into a weak denuclearization agreement, absent of a timetable, verification plan, or shared definition of the term, and announced the end of military exercises at the expense of our military and South Korea. Notwithstanding the president’s laughable assertion that North Korea is ‘no longer a threat’ following his ill-conceived summit, the consensus is that the real winner was not the United States, it was Kim Jong Un -- a murderous autocrat who was legitimized by the president of the United States despite ordering the execution of his brother, his uncle, and more than 300 political adversaries since assuming power in 2011; leaving more than 100,000 political prisoners to languish in jail under inhumane conditions; and continuing the unconscionable human rights abuses that persist under his leadership of North Korea[1]. “Furthermore, Donald Trump recently announced steep steel and aluminum tariffs on three of our most important democratic allies – the European Union, Canada, and Mexico – citing unfounded national security concerns as his rationale. During the Group of Seven (G7) Summit with the leaders of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, and the United Kingdom, Donald Trump displayed a complete lack of respect and disregard for protocol, arriving late for a morning meeting and leaving the summit early. Following his departure from what was reported as an unusually tense meeting of allies, Trump mocked Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Twitter. In addition, White House trade adviser Peter Navarro and chief economic advisor Larry Kudlow were so emboldened by the president’s disrespect that they levied their own insults at Prime Minister Trudeau, using language – ‘betrayal’ and ‘there's a special place in hell’ – that any other administration would have reserved for our enemies, not our allies. “Most appalling of all was Trump’s unsolicited call for Russia to be invited to return to the G7 despite the fact that Russia not only attacked our democracy during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, but was previously removed from what was then referred to as the G8 for using military force to illegally invade Ukraine and annex Crimea. “I have always maintained that Donald Trump’s embrace of autocratic leaders such as Vladimir Putin and now Kim Jong Un was not only questionable, but a cause for grave concern. Both of these dictators have a vested interest in having the economic sanctions on their countries lifted, and it appears that there is currently a man in the White House who might be willing to oblige them without significant, appropriate and verifiable concessions in return – regardless of the dangers that such a move would pose to the United States, our allies, and the world. “Unfortunately, the Republican-controlled Congress of the United States has not upheld its responsibility to provide effective oversight over Donald Trump. It is now abundantly clear that Congress must reign in this president. We have a duty to use our legislative authority as provided by the United States Constitution to intervene immediately and prevent the president from taking unilateral actions that will weaken our relationships with our allies, strengthen our adversaries, and imperil our standing in the world.” # # # [1] https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/11/world/asia/north-korea-human-rights.html
05.18.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Santa Fe High School Shooting WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement following the tragic shooting at Santa Fe High School in Santa Fe, Texas: “I am heartbroken to learn of the tragic shooting that took place at Santa Fe High School, where at least 10 innocent lives were lost and many others were injured. I extend my deepest sympathies to the victims, their families, and the entire Santa Fe High School community whose lives have forever been changed by this senseless act of violence. “This tragic episode is the latest in a string of mass shootings in our country. In fact, it has been reported that the Santa Fe High School shooting is the 22nd instance of a shooting on the grounds of a school in 2018. This is not only deeply disturbing, it’s a national disgrace. “Members of Congress have a responsibility to resist the pressures of the special interest gun lobby and pass the reforms that are so desperately needed to curtail gun violence and mass shootings in our country. To sit idly by and do nothing is a shameful dereliction of duty. Our children, our communities, and our nation all demand and deserve better.” ### Congresswoman Maxine Waters is a member of the Congressional Gun Violence Prevention Task Force and has co-sponsored legislation in the 115th Session of the U.S. Congress to establish a Select Committee on Gun Violence Prevention (H.Res.367); to protect Second Amendment rights, ensure that all individuals who should be prohibited from buying a firearm are listed in the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, and provide a responsible and consistent background check process (H.R.4240); to prohibit the manufacture, possession, sale or transfer of devices designed to convert a semi-automatic weapon into the near equivalent of a fully automatic machine gun (H.R.3947); and, to regulate the importation, manufacture, possession, sale or transfer of assault weapons (H.R.5087).
04.27.2018	House Adopts Waters’ Amendment Requiring Report on Aircraft Diversions from LAX to Hawthorne Municipal Airport FAA Bill includes one of three Waters Amendments addressing Noise at Hawthorne and Torrance Airports WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, offered an amendment to require the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to report on diversions of aircraft from Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) to Hawthorne Municipal Airport, which was adopted by the House of Representatives on April 26th. The amendment, one of three amendments proposed by the Congresswoman to address community concerns about airport noise at airports in her district, was offered on H.R. 4, the FAA Reauthorization Act, which was subsequently passed by the House on April 27th. “Diversions of aircraft from LAX to Hawthorne Airport are one possible source of airport noise for the community surrounding Hawthorne Airport,” said Congresswoman Waters. “This community has reported increasing amounts of airport noise over the past year. My amendment is a first step towards understanding the causes of this disruptive noise.” Congresswoman Waters’ amendment requires the FAA to include in its report the total number of aircraft diversions from LAX to Hawthorne Airport, the average number of diversions per day, the types of aircraft diverted, and the reasons for the diversions. Congresswoman Waters proposed an additional amendment that would have required the FAA to issue regulations for aircraft operations at Hawthorne Municipal Airport in order to increase safety and reduce airport noise. She proposed a similar amendment for Torrance Municipal Airport. The amendments required the FAA to consult with the local community and local aircraft operators in developing the regulations. However, the Republican-dominated House Rules Committee did not allow her to offer these two amendments on the House floor. “Airport noise is an urgent problem in the communities surrounding both the Torrance and Hawthorne airports,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Airplane and helicopter takeoffs and landings can interrupt school children who are trying to learn, businesspeople who are trying to work, and residents who are trying to sleep in their homes at night. I will continue to look for ways to reduce airport noise and address the concerns of families in these communities.” ###
04.19.2018	CONGRESSWOMAN MAXINE WATERS NAMED TO TIME'S 100 MOST INFLUENTIAL PEOPLE OF 2018 WASHINGTON -- TIME named Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, to the 2018 TIME 100, its annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world. The list, now in its fifteenth year, recognizes the activism, innovation and achievement of the world’s most influential individuals. The TIME tribute to Congresswoman Waters, written by Yara Shahidi, is below: Congresswoman Maxine Waters of the 43rd District of California, a.k.a. Auntie Maxine, has made my generation proud to be nieces and nephews. She is adored and admired by people who care about social justice and is oh so eloquent in letting the world, particularly the white men of Congress who dare test her acumen, know that she is not here for any nonsense. From “reclaiming my time” to leading a movement to “impeach him,” she says what many of us are thinking. And she reminds us that we are worthy of any space we occupy. You would think that 41 years of public service would make Congresswoman Waters tired, but her laser focus is unmatched. When other policymakers criminalize protests, she is there, verbalizing our pain. She fights for funding to support neglected communities. And she takes to Twitter to raise her voice on our behalf, whether or not Congress is in session. In this time of sociopolitical unrest, Congresswoman Waters has been the brilliant, tenacious representative of the people that we all need. She’s not new to it, she’s true to it. ###
04.17.2018	Rep. Maxine Waters Statement on Tax Day WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the deadline to submit individual tax returns to the federal government, which is commonly referred to as “Tax Day”: “In November 2017, Donald Trump stood before a crowd of hard working Americans and falsely stated that the GOP tax scam bill, ‘would cost [him] a fortune.’[1] One month later, Donald Trump signed a tax scam bill into law that would reportedly help him earn more than $20 billion a year and line the pockets of the wealthiest one percent of Americans. On this Tax Day, don’t be misled. This was never a tax plan for the middle class; it was a tax scam for Donald Trump and his billionaire allies. “The GOP tax scam law is another iteration of the failed Republican trickledown economic policies of the past. They didn’t work under President Reagan, they didn’t work under President Bush, and they aren’t working now. Predictably, the Republican corporate tax cuts are going straight to CEOs and shareholders. Because the richest 10 percent of Americans own 80 percent of stock, corporate tax cuts do next to nothing for the middle class. Companies are not hiring more workers and they are not investing more in research and development. Instead, multinational companies are doing what they have always done when given tax breaks: they are sticking to their business plan and pocketing any extra money that comes their way. “Furthermore, as the GOP tax scam law adds trillions of dollars to the federal deficit, Congressional Republicans have begun to discuss ‘entitlement reform’ in order to clean up the economic disaster they have created. However, their so-called ‘reforms’ are actually heartless and mean-spirited funding cuts to programs like Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and Obamacare, all of which provide a safety net for children, veterans, seniors, Americans with disabilities, and other vulnerable communities. “It should come as no surprise that Donald Trump -- who is the first president in modern history to refuse to release his federal tax returns and who also has a history of defrauding contractors and consumers -- would have signed such shameful tax scam legislation into law. The GOP tax scam law is yet another conscious decision by the president and his Republican allies to rig the system in favor of large corporations, GOP donors, special interest groups, and wealthy individuals like Donald Trump himself. However, make no mistake, I will continue to fight against Republican efforts to sell out working families in favor of the rich.” ### [1] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/11/29/us/politics/a-main-street-tax-speech-becomes-a-trump-riff-on-the-rich.html
04.12.2018	Waters Introduces Resolution to Honor Vietnam Veterans & Memorials to their Service WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) introduced a resolution, H. Res. 821, recognizing the importance of the iconic Vietnam Veterans Memorial, its extraordinary replica which travels in The Wall That Heals exhibit, and the distinguished veterans of the Vietnam War which the memorials honor and commemorate. “The Vietnam War often separated friends and families, both physically and politically, and created divisions which have taken years to heal. Many veterans have spoken about how difficult this was, and how much harder this made the healing process,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “I believe that this country has a responsibility to fully acknowledge and express appreciation for the sacrifices of Vietnam veterans and their families. I am so pleased that we now have The Vietnam Veterans Memorial, The Wall That Heals exhibit, and the many local museums and memorials that allow us to pay homage to the courage, sacrifice, and devotion of the more than 8.7 million veterans of the Vietnam War.” In 1980, the U.S. Congress authorized the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund to construct a national memorial to commemorate and honor Vietnam War servicemembers. The Vietnam Veterans Memorial was dedicated on November 13, 1982, in Washington, D.C., and is visited by more than 5.6 million people each year. Soon thereafter, it became clear that families across the country, not just those visiting Washington, D.C., greatly desired the opportunity to honor those who were lost, and to pay their respects to the approximately 7.3 million Vietnam War veterans living today. Thus, the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund built an iconic replica of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, which travels across the country as part of The Wall That Heals exhibit, and has been displayed at almost 600 communities nationwide since its creation in 1996. Last week, The Wall That Heals made its inaugural visit to the 43rd Congressional District in the City of Gardena. As the Honorary Chairperson of the Host Committee for The Wall That Heals, Congresswoman Waters worked with the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund and City of Gardena officials for nearly two years to bring the exhibit to the South Bay where hundreds of local veterans, military families, elected officials, and residents gathered to view the exhibit from Wednesday, April 4 to Sunday, April 8, 2018 at the Mas Fukai Park. “I am proud to have introduced a resolution in the 115th Congress in recognition of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, The Wall That Heals exhibit, and Vietnam veterans for their devotion to neighbor, community, and country. I want all of the Vietnam veterans to know, even if you’ve never been told before, that this country appreciates you, we respect you, and we love you,” said Congresswoman Waters. The resolution, H. Res. 821, recognizes the importance of both memorials and the distinguished servicemembers the memorials honor and commemorate. Upon its introduction, Congresswoman Waters also delivered a speech on the House Floor to discuss the resolution and her support for veterans and military families. The full text of the resolution can be found here. ###
04.09.2018	Rep. Waters Welcomes Vietnam War Memorial “Wall That Heals” to the South Bay LOS ANGELES – Hundreds of South Bay residents joined Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), the City of Gardena, and the Gardena Veteran’s Association to welcome the remarkable and iconic Vietnam Veterans Memorial Replica and Mobile Education Center’s “The Wall That Heals” exhibit to Gardena on Saturday, April 7, 2018 at Mas Fukai Park. As the Honorary Chairperson of the Host Committee for “The Wall That Heals,” Congresswoman Waters worked with the Vietnam Veterans Memorial Fund and local officials for nearly two years to bring the beautiful traveling replica of the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington, DC to the South Bay for the first time in its history. “It is with great pride that I welcome 'The Wall That Heals,' an extraordinary traveling replica of the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington, D.C. to the South Bay,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “The Vietnam War Memorial is a symbol of honor, recognition, and remembrance of the soldiers who sacrificed their lives in service to our democracy. I firmly believe that the residents of this community, and this state, deserve the opportunity to say thank you to some of the bravest Americans who have ever lived. With the help of Gardena Mayor Tasha Cerda, the City Council, City Manager Ed Medrano, the Gardena Police Department, Director of Parks and Human Services Kelly Fujio, and other talented volunteers, I am extremely pleased to celebrate the historic arrival of this memorial to the 43rd Congressional District.” “The Wall That Heals” is a 375-foot-wide, 7.5-foot-tall memorial that lists the names of more than 58,000 brave service men and women who lost their lives during the Vietnam War. The memorial also includes a mobile education center that features interactive displays such as Hometown Heroes, In Memory of Honor Roll, and the Wall of Faces, which house photographs, artifacts, and memorabilia that provide visitors with a deeper understanding of the legacy and sacrifice of Vietnam War veterans. The Host Committee was honored to be joined by Judge Vincent Okamoto, a retired United States Army Captain and former Gardena City Councilmember, who delivered a moving and inspirational keynote address. As the highest-decorated Japanese American veteran of the Vietnam War, Judge Okamoto is the recipient of a Purple Heart, Distinguished Service Cross, Silver Star, Bronze Star, and the Vietnamese Cross of Gallantry. Local leaders, veterans service organizations, including the American Legion, the California Veterans of Foreign Wars District 4, and Gardena’s Nisei Memorial VFW Post 1961, and representatives from the Gardena and Torrance Police Departments were also participants in the Welcome Event. During her remarks as the Honorary Chair of the Host Committee, Congresswoman Waters discussed the importance of “paying tribute to local Vietnam veterans in a meaningful and powerful way” throughout the 13-year 50th Anniversary Commemorative period, which extends through Veterans Day 2025. “In my opinion, full and appropriate recognition of our Vietnam Veterans is long overdue,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Our service men and women often returned home to communities conflicted about the reasons for that war, in a country so far away. Many veterans have spoken about how difficult this was, and how much harder the feeling of being ignored and isolated by their home communities made the healing process. I want all of the Vietnam Veterans to know, even if you’ve never been told before, that this country appreciates you, we respect you, and we love you.” As a symbol of her gratitude and support, Congresswoman Waters presented nearly 40 Vietnam War veterans with an official 50th Anniversary Commemorative Lapel Pin from the U.S. Department of Defense (DOD) during the Welcome Event. They will also receive certificates of recognition for their service to our country from her Los Angeles Office. Congresswoman Waters also obtained the American flag that flew over the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. on March 15, 2018 in order to commemorate the “The Wall That Heals” visit. The flag, which flew on the South Side of Mas Fukai Park, was dedicated with the quote “in honor of ‘The Wall That Heals’ visit to the City of Gardena, April 2018.” The City of Gardena was one of only 38 cities in the nation selected to host “The Wall That Heals” in 2018, which was open and free to the public 24 hours a day from Wednesday, April 4 to Sunday, April 8, 2018. For more information on “The Wall That Heals,” visit: http://www.vvmf.org/twth. ###
04.09.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Chemical Weapons Attack in Douma, Syria WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement in response to reports of a chemical weapons attack carried out by forces under Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in the city of Douma, in the Eastern Ghouta region, near the capitol Damascus, this past Saturday night. The attack reportedly killed at least 40 people, many of whom were choking and foaming at the mouth. The Syrian American Medical Society reported that more than 500 people were brought to local medical centers with symptoms indicative of exposure to a chemical agent. Rescue workers said the smell of chlorine was almost overpowering. The Congresswoman’s statement follows: “I am appalled to learn that forces under Syrian President Bashar al-Assad carried out a chemical weapons attack on the city of Douma. This merciless attack is further evidence of President Assad’s willingness to deliberately target civilians and his blatant disregard for international law and basic standards of human decency. “My thoughts and prayers are with those who have suffered as well as all of the people of Syria, who continue to fear for their lives in the face of unimaginable violence and brutality. I join my colleagues in the U.S. Congress to demand that Syria, which is supported by Russia and Iran, immediately cease these heartless and immoral attacks on the people of Syria. Furthermore, I call for an immediate and verifiable ceasefire by the Syrian government and its allies. “It is imperative that the international community develops an appropriate response to this latest attack and the continuing violence in Syria. It is especially important that the United Nations work together with the world’s leading democratic nations to determine a coordinated strategy towards Syria, provide urgently needed humanitarian aid to the Syrian people, and hold all those who are responsible for these atrocities accountable.” ###
04.04.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on the 50th Anniversary of the Assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the 50th anniversary of the death of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr, who was assassinated on April 4, 1968 on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, Tennessee: “On this day, 50 years ago, the world lost one of its most impassioned freedom fighters, prolific preachers of nonviolence, and audacious ‘drum majors for justice’: Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. With his powerful, dignified, and transformative leadership of the Civil Rights Movement, his soul-stirring sermons and speeches, and his prophetic ‘dream’ of a day when men and women would 'not be judged by the color of their skin, but by the content of their character,’ Dr. King dedicated his life to making our democracy one that was more equal and more just. “Our nation will forever be indebted to Dr. King and other civil rights giants such as Rosa Parks, Rev. Jesse Jackson, former U.S. Ambassador Andrew Young, Medgar Evers, Fannie Lou Hamer, and my colleague U.S. Congressman John Lewis, who fought, struggled, and sacrificed in order to end the demoralizing discrimination, unconscionable violence, and debilitating poverty facing Africans Americans. Though they were harassed, beaten, jailed, and lived under the constant threat of death, these courageous leaders remained steadfast in their mission to force America to live up to its most sacred ideals. Their fortitude and resilience led to the historic passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and also laid the foundation for the progress and unprecedented opportunities that we enjoy today. “However, as we honor Dr. King’s life and legacy, we cannot help but be reminded of how much further we have to go before his ‘dream’ is fully realized. Voting rights are once again being undermined; many communities are still suffering from economic inequality; millions of Americans are being denied access to quality and affordable health care; public education is under attack; and unarmed men and women are being targeted and killed by law enforcement. Such injustices in our society are a reminder of our responsibility to continue Dr. King’s work of perfecting our union. “50 years after Dr. King’s tragic assassination, let us reflect upon the famous letter from a Birmingham jail in which he wrote, ‘Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere,’ and honor his rich legacy by recommitting ourselves to the ongoing struggle for peace, equality, and justice for all.” ###
04.02.2018	Waters Mourns the Passing of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement on the death of the former wife of Nelson Mandela and anti-apartheid activist and icon, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela: “I am deeply saddened by the passing of the former wife of Nelson Mandela and anti-apartheid activist and icon, Winnie Mandela. Winnie Mandela is world renown for her efforts to shine a light on the plight of Nelson Mandela, who was unjustly imprisoned for 27 years. In conjunction with the African National Congress and leaders around the world, she courageously led the efforts to fight for his freedom and end apartheid in South Africa. “In addition to her activism that inspired and motivated the international community to join the struggle to end apartheid, Winnie Mandela especially empowered and galvanized women to rise up and speak out against the abuses of the apartheid regime in South Africa. Winnie Mandela popularized the statement, ‘When you strike a woman, you strike a rock,’ which indicated that women were firmly planted in their efforts to end apartheid and became an international slogan for the strength and fortitude of women who could not, and would not, be moved. “When I reflect upon my own career in public service, I am among the generation of anti-apartheid activists who were inspired by Winnie Mandela’s courage, dedication and wisdom. I was one of the national leaders in the Free South Africa Movement, and I still consider my work in the California State Assembly, where I authored the legislation that divested California state pension funds from South African businesses, as one of the defining moments of my life and career. “I will forever cherish the time that I spent with Winnie Mandela, both in South Africa and in the United States. In 1990, when Winnie Mandela accompanied her then-husband Nelson Mandela to Los Angeles following his release from prison, I chaired the Los Angeles welcome committee, and I helped organize a concert and rally that filled the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to capacity. I will never forget the roar of the more than 90,000 people gathered when Nelson and Winnie Mandela appeared on stage. “Despite controversies surrounding her life and career, Winnie Mandela’s unwavering commitment to ending apartheid and securing Nelson Mandela’s freedom is recorded in history. She will forever be remembered as one of the world’s most courageous leaders and heroes. I join the world in offering my sincere condolences to her two daughters, Zenani and Zindziswa Mandela, her relatives, friends, and the people of South Africa.” ###
03.28.2018	Rep. Waters Announces FY2018 Appropriations Letters & Omnibus Accomplishments WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the passage of the Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which provides substantial federal funding increases to many of her legislative priorities through September 30, 2018, the end of the current fiscal year: “After intense, months-long negotiations by Congressional leaders, I am pleased that the U.S. Congress reached a bipartisan agreement on the FY 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act, which was signed into law by the president ahead of the government funding deadline. “While the FY 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act is not perfect, this $1.3 trillion omnibus package increases domestic spending by $52 billion in sharp contrast to the Trump Administration’s morally bankrupt fiscal year 2018 budget request. The omnibus bill makes substantial federal investments in Alzheimer’s care and research, community health centers, infrastructure improvements, job training, public education, and housing programs – all of which were priorities for which I strongly advocated during the appropriations process. The budget also includes an increase in defense and veterans’ spending, which will support veterans, military families, and local defense contractors in the 43rd Congressional District. “However, I am deeply disappointed that this omnibus does not provide a permanent solution for the nearly 800,000 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program recipients. Throughout this process, Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans failed to support, or give sincere consideration to, the DACA proposals put forth by Democratic negotiators. Instead of prioritizing young people who were brought to America as children, innocent of any wrongdoing, and have since registered with the government, undergone background checks, and paid taxes, Donald Trump and the Republican majority were more concerned with building a ridiculous wall along our southern border and with their ongoing pursuit of a bigoted and anti-immigrant agenda. “Though this bill is far from perfect, I applaud my Democratic colleagues for all of their hard work, and I will continue to work with them to fight for programs that improve the lives of working families, seniors, veterans, and other vulnerable communities.” During the fiscal year 2018 appropriations process, Congresswoman Waters drafted and led her colleagues in submitting letters to the House Appropriations Committee requesting increases in funding for the TIGER transportation grants program, Federal Pell Grants, Alzheimer’s research, affordable housing, and Six-Day Mail Delivery. Many of the requests led by Congresswoman Waters received bipartisan support in the U.S. Congress. She also signed requests to the House Appropriations Committee requesting funding for several priorities, including job creation, job training, education, infrastructure, health care, and veterans’ benefits. A list of Congresswoman Waters’ fiscal year 2018 appropriations requests that were included in the FY 2018 Omnibus Appropriations Act is below: Infrastructure TIGER GRANTS PROGRAM: Rep. Waters led 139 other Members of Congress in requesting that FY 2018 funding for TIGER grants, which fund investments in transportation infrastructure by states and local transit agencies (e.g. Metro), be more than doubled over the FY 2017 funding level of $500 million. The Omnibus includes $1.5 billion for TIGER. Job Training YOUTHBUILD: Rep. Waters requested that the YouthBuild program, which offers career development, job skills training, and mentoring to youth from underserved communities, have at least the same funding, or more, as the prior fiscal year. The Omnibus increased YouthBuild funding by $5 million, to a total of $89.5 million Education PELL GRANTS: Rep. Waters led 89 other Members of Congress in requesting an expansion of the Pell Grant program, the largest education grant in the country. She also previously introduced legislation to prevent cuts to the Pell Grant Surplus, an account which ensures that Pell Grants continue for future generations. The Omnibus increased the Pell Grant award by $175 per student, and added $1.3 billion dollars into the Pell Grant Surplus account. HEAD START: Rep. Waters requested that the Head Start program, which provides early childhood education, health, nutrition, and other services to low-income youth, have at least the same funding, or more, as the prior fiscal year. The Omnibus does just that, increasing Head Start funding by $610 million, to a total of $9.9 billion. Health ALZHEIMER’S RESEARCH: Rep. Waters led 103 other Members of Congress in requesting a $414 million increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), for a total of $1.828 billion on FY 2018, and the Omnibus includes exactly $1.828 for this purpose. COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS: Rep. Waters requested continued support for Community Health Centers in FY 2018, and the Omnibus includes $1.6 billion in discretionary funding for Community Health Centers, which is $135 million more than the FY 2017 level. Combined with $3.8 billion in mandatory funding, total funding for Community Health Centers is $5.4 billion, which is $335 million more than the FY 2017 level. NURSING EDUCATION: Rep. Waters requested robust funding for the Nursing Workforce Development Program, and the Omnibus provides an increase of $20 million for nursing education and training in FY 2018. RYAN WHITE HIV/AIDS CARE: Rep. Waters requested continued strong funding for the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, and the Omnibus includes $2.3 billion in FY 2018, which is the same as the FY 2017 level. FAMILY PLANNING: Rep. Waters requested continued strong funding for the Title X Family Planning program, and the Omnibus includes $286 million in FY 2018, which is the same as the FY 2017 level. KEVIN AND AVONTE’S LAW: Rep. Waters is a leading co-author of Kevin and Avonte’s Law (H.R. 4221), a bipartisan bill to help local communities and law enforcement officials locate missing Americans, especially seniors affected by Alzheimer’s disease and children affected by autism, Down syndrome, and other developmental disabilities. This bill was included in the Omnibus and is now law. Housing PUBLIC HOUSING – Rep. Waters requested robust funding to cover 100 percent of needs for the public housing program, a program that provides housing for 1.1 million low-income families, including seniors, veterans, persons with disabilities, and families with children. While the omnibus did not include funding for the full estimate of annual needs for the program, it did include an $808 million increase for the Public Housing Capital Fund compared to FY17 enacted levels in order to address major repairs of public housing units. SECTION 8 TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE – Rep. Waters requested full funding to address 100 percent of needs for the Section 8 Tenant-Based Rental Assistance (TBRA) program, also known as the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program. Similar to the public housing program, the Section 8 HCV and PBRA programs provide much needed housing assistance to a total of 3.6 million low-income households, over half of whom are elderly or persons with disabilities. The omnibus included this funding, though did not markedly increase the Administrative Fees necessary for public housing authorities, as requested. SECTION 8 PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE – Rep. Waters requested full funding to cover all existing Project-Based Rental Assistance (PBRA) contracts. Similar to the public housing program, the Section 8 HCV and PBRA programs provide much needed housing assistance to a total of 3.6 million low-income households, over half of whom are elderly or persons with disabilities. The omnibus included this funding. 202 HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY – Rep. Waters requested full funding to cover all existing contracts for the 202 Housing for the Elderly program, plus an additional $25 million to create new units of deeply affordable housing for this population. The omnibus included a $176 million increase in this account, a large portion of which will go to construct new units, as requested. 811 HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES – Rep. Waters requested full funding to cover all existing contracts for the Section 811 Housing for Persons with Disabilities program, plus an additional $25 million to create new units of deeply affordable housing for this population. The omnibus included an $85 million increase in this account, a large portion of which will go to construct new units, as requested. HOMELESS ASSISTANCE GRANTS – Rep. Waters requested full funding to cover all existing contracts for HUD’s Homeless Assistance grants, plus an additional $5 billion in emergency funding pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 as amended. Rep. Waters requested this additional emergency relief funding to begin to address the over 550,000 Americans who are homeless in this country. While the omnibus did include enough funding to cover all existing homeless assistance contracts, it did not include any emergency funding above that. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT – Rep. Waters requested at least $3.3 billion for the Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) program, a successful program that provides communities with resources to address a wide range of unique community development needs. The omnibus included $3.365 billion for CDBG, an increase of over $300 million from the FY17 enacted level. NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION – Rep. Waters requested $135 million for the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (also known as Neighborworks America), a network of more than 245 independent, nonprofit organizations that help individuals, families and communities thrive through comprehensive approaches to affordable housing and community development. The omnibus funding this program at $140 million. RURAL DEVELOPMENT VOUCHER PROGRAM – Rep. Waters requested a minimum of $25.7 million for the Rural Development Voucher Program, a program within the U.S. Department of Agriculture that a rental subsidy program that offers protection to eligible housing tenants in multi-family properties financed through Rural Development Section 515 Rural Rental Housing Program who may face hardship through the prepayment or foreclosure of the mortgage loan on the property. The omnibus funded the program at $25 million, just below what was requested. RURAL HOUSING SECTION 514 and 515 PROGRAMS, AND THE MULTIFAMILY PRESERVATION AND REVITALIZATION DEMO - The Section 515 and 514 programs are used to rehabilitate aging properties in rural communities but have been subject to substantial cuts over the years. The Multifamily Preservation & Revitalization Demonstration (MPR) also helps preserve and improve Section 515 and 514 properties through loan restructuring, grants for non-profits, no interest loans, and debt deferral. Rep. Waters requested $40 million for the Section 515 program, $23.8 million for the Section 514 program, and $25 million for the MPR demonstration program. The omnibus included her request of $40 million for the 515 program, $23 million for the 514 program (just below what was requested), and $22 million for the MPR demonstration (just below what was requested). International Programs INTERNATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING: Rep. Waters requested continued strong funding for international family planning and reproductive health, and the Omnibus includes $575 million in FY 2018, which is the same as the FY 2017 level. CARIBBEAN: As a Co-Chair of the Congressional Caribbean Caucus, Rep. Waters requested continued strong funding for the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative, and the Omnibus includes $58 million in FY 2018, which is the same as the FY 2017 level. HAITI: As a long-time friend of the people of Haiti, Rep. Waters advocated for an international response to the cholera epidemic that United Nations peacekeepers introduced into Haiti in 2010. The Omnibus includes $10 million in FY 2018 to assist communities in Haiti affected by cholera. Criminal Justice JUSTICE REINVESTMENT INITIATIVE: Rep. Waters requested continued support and funding for the Justice Reinvestment Initiative, which supports states in developing targeted, data-driven criminal justice policies to realign resources, maximize their impact, and promote cost savings and safer communities. The Omnibus includes $25,000,000 in continued funding for that program. Business MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY: Rep. Waters requested continued support and funding for the Minority Business Development Agency, which works to advance the growth of minority business through activities such as helping them access capital, contracts and new markets through public-private engagement. The agency has helped clients access nearly $36 billion in capital and contracts and create or retain over 124,000 jobs. Although Donald Trump proposed eliminating the agency, the FY 2018 Omnibus included $39,000,000 for that agency's continued operation. U.S. Postal Service SIX-DAY MAIL DELIVERY: Rep. Waters led 54 Members of Congress to request that 6-day mail delivery continue. In 2012, the Postmaster General sought to revise the USPS’s delivery to eliminate one day of mail delivery by ending Saturday mail service. The Omnibus directed that “6-day delivery and rural delivery of mail shall continue.” Labor & Worker Protection WAGE AND HOUR PROTECTION: Rep. Waters requested that the division of the Wage and Hour Division of the Department of Labor, which enforces federal minimum wage, overtime pay, and child labor requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as well as the Family and Medical Leave Act, among other employment standards, be fully funded with $340,070,000, in order to ensure this agency has the resources it need to update overtime laws, go after wage-theft violations, and enforce minimum wage laws, among its many other responsibilities. Although, not fully funded, the Omnibus included $227,500,000 for that division to, at least, maintain funding at the previous fiscal year level. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SECURITY: Rep. Waters requested that the Employee Benefits Security Administration, which assures the security of the retirement, health and other workplace related benefits of America's workers and their families, be fully funded at a level of $269,968,000 to support this agency in safeguarding the benefits of millions of Americans and retirees. Although, that agency was not fully funded, the Omnibus included $181,000,000 for that agency to, at least, maintain funding at the previous fiscal year level. WORKERS’ COMPENSATION: Rep. Waters requested that the Department of Labor Office of Workers' Compensation, which administers disability compensation programs that provide wage replacement benefits, medical treatment, vocational rehabilitation and other benefits to workers or their dependents who experience work-related injury or occupational disease, be fully funded at a level of $171,527,000 in order to help protect the interests of workers who are injured or become ill on the job and, where possible, help them get back to work when they are able. Although, the Office of Workers' Compensation was not fully funded in the Omnibus, the bill that was enacted included $115,424,000, which was an increase over previous years’ funding levels. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN FEDERAL CONTRACTS: Rep. Waters requested $156,611,000 in funding for the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, which enforces the contractual promise of affirmative action and equal employment opportunity required of those who do business with the Federal government. Despite the president’s request that that offices funding be substantially reduced to $88 million from its previous fiscal year 2016 and 2017 level of approximately $105 million, the fiscal year 2018 Omnibus included $103,476,000 to maintain funding close to its previous level. LABOR MANAGEMENT STANDARDS: Rep. Waters requested that the Office of Labor Management Standards, which promotes labor union and labor-management transparency through reporting and disclosure requirements for labor unions and their officials, employers, labor relations consultants, and surety companies, be fully funded at $61,153,000, so that properly enforce labor-management. Although that office was not fully funded, the Omnibus, included $40,187,000 to, at least, maintain that office’s funding near its fiscal year 2016 and 2017 levels. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH: Rep. Waters requested $824,819,000 to protect workers’ rights and fully fund the Administration (OSHA), which sets and enforces protective workplace safety and health standards and also provides information, training and assistance to workers and employers. Despite the president’s proposal to cut the funding for that office by roughly $8.4 million in fiscal year 2018, the Omnibus included $552,787,000 to increase funding by roughly a $1 million over fiscal year 2017 levels and restore that office’s funding to what it fiscal year 2016. MINE SAFETY: Rep. Waters requested $560,817,000 to keep miners safe by funding for the Mine Safety and Health Administration, which operates to prevent death, disease, and injury from mining and to promote safe and healthful workplaces for the nation's miners. However, the Omnibus only included $373,816,000, which is a decrease of roughly $1.3 million from the fiscal year 2017 funding level.
03.16.2018	Congresswoman Waters Mourns the Passing of Congresswoman Louise Slaughter WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement on the passing of Congresswoman Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY-25): “I am heartbroken by the passing of my dear friend and colleague, Congresswoman Louise Slaughter. Louise Slaughter was a phenomenal woman of impeccable integrity who tirelessly and successfully fought for policies to improve the lives of her constituents in New York’s 25th Congressional District as well as working families all across this country. I extend my deepest sympathies to her children, grandchildren, relatives, friends, staff, and constituents during this difficult time. “For nearly 30 years, I had the privilege of working closely with Louise Slaughter in the U.S. Congress, and I witnessed her remarkable leadership and her historic legislative achievements firsthand. As one of the longest serving women in the U.S. House of Representatives, Louise Slaughter was a vocal champion for women’s issues. She is credited with establishing the Office of Research on Women’s Health (ORWH) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), allocating the first $500 million in federal funding for breast cancer research at the NIH, and co-authoring the Violence Against Women Act. Louise Slaughter also made history as the first woman to serve as Chair of the powerful House Rules Committee. She played a pivotal role in the passage of landmark legislation such as the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), which extended health care coverage to 20 million Americans who were previously uninsured, and the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, which restored a woman’s right to fight pay discrimination. During the 115th Congress, Louise Slaughter continued her service as Ranking Member of the Rules Committee where she fiercely defended important public policy priorities. As Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, I regularly testified before her committee in opposition to efforts to roll-back the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and safeguards we put in place to protect consumers in the aftermath of the Great Recession of 2008. When these, and many other financial services issues, came before the Rules Committee, Louise Slaughter consistently demonstrated her deep knowledge of the issues, command of legislative procedure, and fearless advocacy for working families. “Louise Slaughter is a cherished colleague whose outstanding legislative achievements blazed a path for women in this country. Though our hearts are heavy, I join the entire U.S. Congress in celebrating the life and legacy of this outstanding woman who truly embodied all of our country’s most sacred ideals. My thoughts and prayers are with her family and loved ones during their time of grief.” ###
03.08.2018	Congresswoman Waters Celebrates International Women’s Day WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in recognition of International Women's Day: "I am proud to join women all across the world in celebration of International Women's Day, which is an annual recognition of our progress and a reminder of our responsibility in the ongoing struggle for equality, justice, and peace. “Today, as we reflect on the great strides women have made over the past century, we must honor the countless examples of courageous trailblazers who refused to be shut up or shut down in their efforts to fight for the equal treatment of women in our society, such as Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Sojourner Truth who fought for women's suffrage despite public ridicule and rejection; Gloria Steinem, Eleanor Smeal, and Patsy Mink, with whom I worked closely to highlight issues affecting working women and to fight for public policies that provide equal treatment for women; Congresswoman Bella Abzug, a progressive trailblazer who famously declared that women did belong in the house – the House of Representatives; Dr. Dorothy Height, the great educator, champion of civil rights, and leader of the National Council of Negro Women; and Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, the first African American woman elected to the U.S. Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic Party’s nomination for president of the United States, who demonstrated what it meant to be unbought and unbossed. “On this International Women’s Day, let us all embody the spirit and ideals of these fearless women, and countless others in the United States and across the world, who are rising up and uniting to confront the challenges women still face today.” ###
03.01.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Civilian Attacks in Eastern Ghouta WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to reports that more than 500 people were killed and hundreds more were injured in ongoing attacks by forces under Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in Eastern Ghouta, Syria: “I am shocked and appalled to learn that more that 500 people were killed and hundreds more were injured at the hands of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime in Eastern Ghouta, Syria. My thoughts and prayers are with those who have suffered as well as all of the people of Syria who continue to fear for their lives in the face of these unconscionable bombings, many of which have targeted hospitals. These horrific attacks are among the deadliest in the history of the Syrian Civil War. “Such heinous attacks on innocent men, women and children by President Assad are an international disgrace. I join my colleagues in the U.S. Congress in unequivocally condemning these heartless and immoral actions. Furthermore, I call for an immediate and verifiable ceasefire by the Syrian government and its allies. “Unfortunately, the ongoing attacks on Eastern Ghouta are not occurring in a vacuum. They are consistent with what we have always known about the Assad regime and its blatant disregard for human decency and international law. In light of such a devastating and widespread humanitarian crisis, it is imperative that the international community develop a coherent strategy on Syria, provide urgently needed humanitarian aid to the people of Syria, and hold all those who are responsible for these atrocities accountable.” ###
03.01.2018	Rep. Maxine Waters Applauds SpaceX for Successful Falcon Heavy Rocket Launch WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, congratulated Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX), the world's fastest growing launch services provider, on the successful launch of the Falcon Heavy Rocket. SpaceX is headquartered in the 43rd Congressional District in the City of Hawthorne. Her remarks, which were delivered on the U.S. House Floor and submitted for the official record of 115th Congress on February 7, are as follows: Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent to address the House for one-minute. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to recognize the extraordinary achievement of Elon Musk and SpaceX for the spectacular and historic launch of its giant Falcon Heavy rocket – now, the world’s most powerful operational rocket –from Cape Canaveral on Tuesday, February 6, 2018. Besides the launch itself, which carried Mr. Musk’s personal Tesla roadster into space, SpaceX also achieved a second amazing feat by guiding two of the Falcon Heavy’s rocket boosters back to Earth for an upright landing. This rocket launch has paved the way for faster, cheaper launches of satellites and cargo into space. As the representative of California’s 43rd Congressional District, this milestone is especially meaningful to me. SpaceX is headquartered in my district in the City of Hawthorne and employs thousands of talented men and women in our community. I congratulate Elon Musk and SpaceX for continuing the great tradition of achievement by aerospace companies in the South Bay. To view a video of her remarks, click here. ###
02.27.2018	Rep. Waters Keynotes Torrance Chamber of Commerce State of the Region Event Discusses Infrastructure Funding, Immigration, and Tax Law Changes in Legislative Update WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered a keynote address during the Torrance Chamber of Commerce “2018 State of the Region Luncheon” at the Doubletree by Hilton Torrance-South Bay. Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) were invited to provide a legislative update on a number of national policy issues and their impacts on the South Bay. Given the vibrancy of businesses and communities within the 43rd Congressional District, which includes the cities of Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood, Lawndale, Lomita, Los Angeles, and Torrance, Congresswoman Waters opened her address by discussing her strong support for local import-export businesses, aerospace companies, and other industries located within her district. “The 43rd Congressional District is a dynamic and thriving region filled with incredible people, brilliant and hard-working entrepreneurs, businesses that innovate, and local leaders who understand the importance of constantly reinvesting in our communities,” said Congresswoman Waters. “As I proudly represent this region in Congress, I am working to support the programs and projects that are important to our communities. At the same time, I have been fighting for public policies that will allow this region to continue to thrive.” Infrastructure and job creation, which are among Congresswoman Waters’ top priorities, were also a large focus of her legislative update. In the first session of the 115th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced a robust infrastructure package, the Transportation Infrastructure for Job Creation Act and Drinking Water Infrastructure for Job Creation Act, which will provide a total of $15 billion over the next six years for job creation through investments in our nation’s infrastructure. Congresswoman Waters also discussed her efforts to secure funding for transportation projects throughout the 43rd Congressional District, including Torrance Transit’s Compressed Natural Gas Fueling Station and Electric Vehicle Charging Stations; Gardena G-Trans’ CNG Fueling Facility and Maintenance Infrastructure Upgrades Project and its Solar Energy Powered Zero Emission Bus Transit System project; and Los Angeles Metro’s replacement of 30 aging diesel buses with new, low-emission, clean fuel buses for uses specifically in the South Bay region. “A safe, efficient, modern, and accessible transportation system and access to safe, clean drinking water is vital for a healthy environment and a vibrant economy. That is true here in the South Bay and in communities throughout the United States. I am working hard to expand federal support for infrastructure in communities nationwide” she said. Congresswoman Waters also provided her analysis on the Trump Administration’s infrastructure proposal. Despite purportedly leveraging $1.5 trillion in infrastructure spending over 10 years, in reality, the Trump proposal requires that state and local governments finance 80 percent of the costs for major infrastructure projects and limits federal investments to $200 billion over 10 years. Congresswoman Waters also critiqued the president’s fiscal year 2019 budget, which reduces transportation and infrastructure funding by $168 billion over 10 years; slashes highway, transit, and highway safety funding by $122 billion over 10 years; and eliminates the U.S. Department of Transportation’s popular “TIGER” grants program, which currently benefits local transit agencies like Torrance Transit, Gardena’s GTrans, and Los Angeles Metro. “I think that there will be a robust conversation in Washington over the upcoming weeks and months about transportation and infrastructure funding, and the appropriate amount of federal investments. I have long advocated for additional federal transportation and infrastructure investments. At the center of the discussion will be an examination of how the federal government can invest in infrastructure without shifting the burden to states and local communities to come up with an unrealistic, or unreasonable, share of the funding,” said Congresswoman Waters. In addition to infrastructure, Congresswoman Waters also discussed several other contentious federal policy issues and their impacts on South Bay residents. Those issues include the Trump Administration’s decision to open up the entire Pacific coastline to offshore oil drilling, which would be devastating for coastal cities in the South Bay, like Manhattan Beach, Redondo Beach, and Hermosa Beach; immigration and the fate of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program recipients; and the new federal tax law, which reduces or eliminates key deductions that are important to Californians. At the conclusion of her remarks, Congresswoman Waters thanked the Torrance Chamber of Commerce for its “continued commitment as a leading business advocate in the South Bay region,” and pledged to continue “working collaboratively with [the Chamber]” and “fighting for this region to ensure that every resident can live the American dream.” A full transcript of her remarks, as prepared for delivery, is below: I am so honored to be here with all of you. This is a vibrant, diverse, dynamic and thriving region filled with incredible people, brilliant and hard-working entrepreneurs, businesses that innovate, and local leaders who understand the importance of constantly reinvesting in our communities. We have aerospace companies, a multitude of service industries, import/export businesses, and even micro-breweries! As I proudly represent this region in Congress, I am working to support the programs and projects that are important to our communities. At the same time, I have been fighting for public policies that will allow this region to continue to thrive. There is a lot going on in Washington, DC, right now, as you might well imagine. It’s hard to know where to start. I know that there is tremendous uncertainty about the state of affairs in Washington D.C. and how it will impact our region. There is uncertainty as to whether there will be resolution to several public policy issues that have been long debated. There is also uncertainty as to the effects of recent changes in the tax laws, and how the government will deal with the national debt. As you know, a great deal of the uncertainty of the past year has been due to a lack of clarity as to the long-term federal funding for programs and projects. It is not only important to federal agencies and federal employees that there be clarity in the long-term funding of programs, it is also important to states and localities as well as individuals and families that depend on those programs and services. Infrastructure A specific area, in which I have advocated for a significant federal investment, is infrastructure. I am working hard to expand federal support for infrastructure in communities nationwide. A few months ago, I introduced a legislative package consisting of two bills, which will provide a total of $15 billion over the next six years for job creation through investments in our nation’s infrastructure. The Transportation Infrastructure for Job Creation Act would provide a supplemental appropriation of $7.5 billion over the next six years for investments in transportation infrastructure through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s popular “TIGER” grants program. This bill would provide additional funding for innovative highway and transit projects by local governments and transit agencies like Torrance Transit and Gardena’s GTrans. The Drinking Water Infrastructure for Job Creation Act would provide a supplemental appropriation of $7.5 billion over the next six years for the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds, which help public water systems finance infrastructure projects in order to replace lead pipes, upgrade water infrastructure, and ensure clean drinking water for American families. A safe, efficient, modern, and accessible transportation system and access to safe, clean drinking water is vital for a healthy environment and a vibrant economy. That is true here in the South Bay and in communities throughout the United States. Torrance Transportation I am especially proud of the City of Torrance, and its commitment to public transportation. Torrance Transit, the city’s municipal transportation agency, has been serving the needs of South Bay residents for over 75 years. Torrance Transit operates eleven different bus routes and connects with several regional transit hubs and services. System-wide, Torrance Transit experiences approximately 3.9 million passenger boardings every year. I have worked closely with Kim Turner, the Director of Torrance Transit, to support Torrance Transit’s work and make certain that Torrance Transit’s priorities receive their fair share of federal, state and local funding. In fiscal year 2014, I helped Torrance Transit obtain $175,000 for the construction of a Compressed Natural Gas Fueling Station. This funding was provided by the Mobile Source Air Pollution Reduction Review Committee, which brings together representatives of several local and regional transit agencies. In fiscal year 2016, I helped Torrance Transit obtain $64,000 for the construction of eight Electric Vehicle Charging Stations. The funding was provided by the Southern California Air Quality Management District, and the electric vehicle charging stations will be located at the Torrance Transit Park and Ride Regional Terminal – a strategically-located, multi-modal transit center that will connect several modes of transportation in the South Bay. Furthermore, as a strong supporter of the Transportation Department’s “TIGER” grants program, I wrote several letters over the past few years supporting Torrance Transit’s efforts to obtain federal TIGER funding to support the construction of the Park and Ride Regional Terminal. The TIGER grants program is a highly competitive federal program that provides financing to local transit agencies for innovative highway and transit projects, and I strongly believe that Torrance Transit’s Park and Ride embodies the type of innovative thinking that TIGER was designed to promote. Unfortunately, Torrance Transit was unsuccessful in obtaining a TIGER grant because of the limited federal funding available. Nevertheless, I am working to expand federal funding for TIGER so that more projects like the Park and Ride will be able to obtain TIGER support in the future. Separately, I have sought support from both the U.S. Department of Transportation and the California Air Resources Board for Torrance Transit’s plans to develop its proposed “Return of the Red Car” trolley service. This zero emission, all electric rubber tire trolley service would start and end at the Park and Ride and further expand access to transit service in the South Bay. While not all of these efforts were successful, Torrance Transit is expected to receive more than $16 million in federal support through transportation formula grants for the period between fiscal year 2014 and fiscal year 2018. Gardena Transportation I am also proud to represent the City of Gardena, which operates GTrans – formerly known as Gardena Bus Lines. Over the past four years, I have written several letters to federal, state, and regional agencies in support of funding for GTrans priorities, including GTrans’ compressed natural gas (CNG) Fueling Facility and Maintenance Infrastructure Upgrades Project and its Solar Energy Powered Zero Emission Bus Transit System project. These projects illustrate the City of Gardena’s commitment to transition to a fleet of low-emission, clean energy buses, while providing efficient bus service to the South Bay region. Metro/South Bay Transportation Finally, I helped Metro obtain a federal Bus and Bus Facilities grant for $10.5 million to replace about 30 aging diesel buses with new, low-emission, clean fuel buses for uses specifically in the South Bay region. Torrance Water Infrastructure Water infrastructure is also critical for the South Bay region. The Torrance Municipal Water Department serves more than 100,000 residents and business customers covering 78 percent of the City.[1] I supported the City’s efforts to serve its municipal water customers by seeking federal funding for the North Torrance Wellfield Project, a comprehensive project to design and construct new water infrastructure.[2] Just two weeks ago, I sought federal funding for the Torrance Airport Storm Water Infiltration Project, which will be installed at the Torrance Municipal Airport,[3] and the Walnut Storm Water Capture and Groundwater Replenishment Basin Project, which will develop infrastructure to divert storm water to an above-ground storage basin and increase local water supplies.[4] These two funding requests are still pending. Inglewood Like many of the other cities in this region, Inglewood is flourishing as well. There is exciting news of development projects in Inglewood that will allow that city and the surrounding area to thrive. Most notably, as you know, Inglewood is poised to become home to three professional sports teams. The Rams and the Chargers are moving into a new football stadium in Inglewood. The project includes a football stadium, retail space, office space, a hotel, and other feature that will make a huge impact on the community. For example, since the Rams announced they were moving to Inglewood, the city’s median home price increased dramatically, from $398,000 in January 2016 to $448,000 in March 2017.[1] The owners of the property where the stadium is being built have estimated that the stadium project could create as many create 40,000 jobs counting construction and ongoing operations. The Clippers are also on the verge of a move to Inglewood. Just this Tuesday, February 20th, we learned new details of the Clippers proposal to build a world-class basketball arena, practice facility and entertainment center complex in Inglewood. This event would host sports events and concerts, and would make a huge impact on the City and the surrounding region. National Infrastructure Discussions I am determined to advocate for additional federal investments our communities and in infrastructure so that additional funding is available for transportation and infrastructure projects in the South Bay and communities across the county. Lately, as you know, there has been a lot of discussion about infrastructure at the national level. Last week, on February 12th, the president released the administration’s fiscal year 2019 budget proposal along with a plan that is purportedly intended to leverage $1.5 trillion in infrastructure spending over 10 years. However, the president’s plan provides only $200 billion in federal infrastructure funding over 10 years, and it relies on states, local governments, and private investors for the rest of the funding. Of that $200 billion, the plan makes $100 billion available as an incentive for states and local governments, which would have to provide an 80 percent match. For comparison purposes, the 1956 law signed by Republican President Eisenhower that built the Interstate Highway System, provided 90 percent of highway construction costs, while the states were required to pay only a 10 percent match.[2] Most states and local governments will not be able to finance 80 percent of the costs of a major infrastructure project, so they will not benefit from the president’s plan. Of the remaining funds made available in the president’s plan, $50 billion would go to rural communities, and would not be accessible by our region. Another $20 billion would be made available for federal loans to attract private investment which could result in private companies building toll roads. The remaining funds would go to other activities. At the same time, the president’s budget reduces transportation and infrastructure funding by $168 billion over 10 years. Highway, transit, and highway safety funding is cut by $122 billion over 10 years. In addition, the budget proposes to eliminate the U.S. Department of Transportation’s popular “TIGER” grants program, which funds investments in transportation infrastructure by states and local transit agencies like Metro, Torrance Transit and Gardena’s GTrans. Overall, the budget proposal released last week would cut fiscal year 2019 transportation funding by 14 percent below the fiscal year 2017 level. I think that there will be a robust conversation in Washington over the upcoming weeks and months about transportation and infrastructure funding, and the appropriate amount of federal investments. I have long advocated for additional federal transportation and infrastructure investments. At the center of the discussion will be an examination of how the federal government can invest in infrastructure without shifting the burden to states and local communities to come up with an unrealistic, or unreasonable, share of the funding. Beach and Coastal Communities: Offshore Oil Drilling The president’s decision to open up the entire Pacific coastline to offshore oil drilling is also causing a robust debate in Washington. I believe this decision would have a devastating impact upon California, especially for coastal cities in the South Bay, like Manhattan Beach, Redondo Beach, and Hermosa Beach. Offshore oil drilling is opposed by overwhelming bipartisan majorities throughout California. California families and small businesses depend upon the health of our oceans for food, commerce, and a thriving tourism industry. An offshore oil disaster like the Deepwater Horizon oil spill would be severely damaging for our state. I strongly oppose the president’s decision, and I am working with my colleagues to protect our coastline from offshore oil drilling. Immigration As you know, aside from the debate on federal spending, infrastructure investments, and offshore oil drilling, one of the most contentious and robust public policy debates in Washington, D.C. is on the topic of immigration. Again, this is an area of uncertainty, in which affected immigrants, businesses, state and local governments, and the various stakeholders on all sides of the debate are desperate for long-term clarity in the law. Recently, much of the discussion has centered on the continuation of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, which the administration announced would be phased out by March 5, 2018. Nationally, there are about 800,000 DACA participants. These participants are people who came to America as children, innocent of any wrongdoing, pay taxes, passed a background check, and are valued and active members of our society and contributors to our economy. About a quarter of those individuals live in California, and roughly 13 percent live in this region. Outside of just DACA – and referring to immigrants in general – there are roughly 2.5 million green card and visa holders living in the state.[3] The American Immigration Council (Council) estimates that nearly 34 percent of California’s entire labor force is foreign-born, as are 40 percent of business owners in the Los Angeles/Long Beach/Anaheim metropolitan area. Immigrants are our neighbors, business owners, employees and taxpayers. It is to everyone’s benefit – immigrant and natural-born citizen alike – to reform our immigration system to, at the very least, establish certainty in the law. Reforming our nation’s immigration laws is not a new endeavor. Over the last several years, and over the last few presidential administrations, there have been attempts at bipartisan agreements on immigration reform. For example, in 2004, during President George W. Bush’s administration, Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) and the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA) introduced the Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act. Among other provisions, that bill offered a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants, increased border security, and addressed hiring practices regarding undocumented immigrants. The Senate passed the bill, but it did not pass the House, despite being supported by President Bush. We then crossed into the Obama Administration, where there was significant discussion, but again no successful legislation. Perhaps the most notable attempt at immigration legislation during that timeframe was in 2013, when the “Gang of Eight,” a bipartisan group of senators introduced a bill that would have made it possible for millions of undocumented immigrants to gain legal status while also putting them on a 13-year path to citizenship. However, at the same time, that bill also included increased border security and repealed the Diversity Visa Lottery program, which gives a limited number of visas to immigrants from underrepresented countries. That bill died in the 113th Congress. Those were some conservative attempts at reaching bipartisan compromise. Many people across the country, on both sides of the aisle, were hopeful that the conversation on immigration, which reached a fever pitch in the last month, would spark legislative action that could resolve the YEARS of lingering uncertainty with respect to our immigration system. However, we appear to have returned to the persistent stalemate that has existing on many of these issues. Last week, the Senate engaged in a debate on the issue of immigration. Although the prospects had seemed promising that a bipartisan compromise bill could pass the Senate, the Senate failed to advance any of the four immigration proposals before it last Thursday. Those proposals included a deal that was spearheaded by Senator Susan Collins (ME), which was considered by many to be the legislation with the best chance of passing. That bill offered a path to citizenship to DACA eligible immigrants, provided as much as $25 billion for border security, and maintained the Diversity Visa Lottery program. While that particular bill, like the other proposals on the table, failed to achieve the 60 votes necessary to advance, that bill had the support of a bipartisan group of at least 54 Senators. Unfortunately, it seems as though we may not be close to a resolution on this issue that will pass both the House and the Senate and become enacted into law. Nevertheless, I, like many of my colleagues, strongly believe that there is a need for urgent action, and I will continue to be engaged on this issue. Tax While immigration and infrastructure are two of the unresolved policy debates in Washington D.C., a great deal of the uncertainty of this past year has related to the debate over the new tax law. California faces unique challenges under the new law, with many economists suggesting it will negatively affect growth and harm the state’s competitiveness. The new law, which was enacted late last year, reduces or eliminates key deductions that are relied on by Californians. It is expected to raise the cost of living for many middle class households. Some of the most important changes in the tax law are alterations to the state and local tax deduction, or SALT, and the mortgage interest rate deduction. These two changes greatly affect California. Before the new tax law, taxpayers could deduct everything they pay in state and local income, property, and sales tax. The new law caps SALT to $10,000 for income, property, and sales tax combined. Approximately 3 million Californians already pay more than $10,000 a year in state taxes.[4] In California, 34 percent of people claim the deduction, including 29 percent of tax filers right here in my congressional district. The average value of the SALT deduction for a California household that claims it is over $18,000. Before the new tax law, if you itemized your deductions you could write off qualifying mortgage interest payments for real estate purchases of up to $1,000,000. This $1,000,000 cap used to apply not only to a primary residence, but also a second home. The new law reduced the mortgage interest rate deduction by 25 percent, which has a particularly significant impact on California, and specifically homeowners in this region and in other high-cost cities. From January to October of 2017, approximately 10 percent of all new home loans in California were over the new $750,000 cap. Notably, the new cap is less than the median home value in Torrance, which is $812,400.[5] In addition to the changes in deductions, the new tax law significantly increases the national deficit. The amount of projected debt added to the deficit is at least $1.5 trillion over the next decade, with some economists estimating that it could be significantly higher than that, even over $2 trillion. Some have argued that those estimates don’t account for economic growth created by the law, but the bipartisan Joint Congressional Committee on Taxation has estimated that the law still adds at least $1 trillion to the deficit even when accounting for economic growth. Adding too much to the deficit, especially this fast, can have severe negative consequences on our economy in the long-term. This type of deficit spending is not sustainable. As the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, I will be monitoring the deficit closely, and I will advocate policies that will help keep the economy stable and support working families. I will also do everything within my power to fight for the people of California and make certain they are not unfairly disadvantaged by the new tax law. Conclusion Many of the issues and problems facing this country require immediate attention. Inaction, or the wrong action, on infrastructure, immigration, public transportation, and the national deficit, among many other issues, is not sustainable. Action and solutions are required. I have fought and will fight for these solutions, and I will not stop until the South Bay region and other communities in our district are better off than they are today. In conclusion, I want to say thank you to the Torrance Area Chamber of Commerce for your continued commitment as a leading business advocate in the South Bay region. I look forward to working collaboratively with you in my capacity as your Representative of California’s 43rd District and in my position as Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. I remain committed to fighting for this region to ensure that every resident can live the American dream. ### [1] https://www.torranceca.gov/our-city/public-works/water-services [2] https://www.torranceca.gov/our-city/public-works/civil-and-traffic-engineering/capital-improvement-projects/north-torrance-well-field-project-phase-iii [3] https://www.casqa.org/asca/optimization-design-and-operation-torrance-airport-storm-water-infiltration-project [4] https://www.torranceca.gov/our-city/public-works/civil-and-traffic-engineering/capital-improvement-projects/walnut-stormwater-capture-and-groundwater-replenishment-basin-project-3144 [1] https://www.kcet.org/shows/town-hall-los-angeles/how-the-rams-stadium-development-could-impact-inglewood [2] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Aid_Highway_Act_of_1956 [3] Public Policy Institute of California. http://www.ppic.org/publication/immigrants-in-california/ [4] https://www.thenation.com/article/the-gop-tax-bill-was-a-deliberate-attack-on-blue-states-and-california-plans-to-fight-back/ [5] https://www.zillow.com/torrance-ca/home-values/
02.17.2018	Rep. Waters’ Statement on the Indictment of 13 Russian Nationals and 3 Russian Entities for Election Interference WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement upon the announcement that 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities were indicted by Special Counsel Robert Mueller for their roles in a plot to interfere in the 2016 presidential election and to support Donald Trump’s presidential campaign: “The indictment, filed by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, III against thirteen Russian nationals and three Russian entities for interfering with United States elections, is another piece of an enormously complex puzzle that outlines the extraordinary steps Russia has taken to undermine our democracy. The indictment details an elaborate, far-reaching and well-financed operation that the perpetrators themselves described as ‘information warfare against the United States of America.’ During any other presidential administration, and during any other time in history, Americans could have confidently expected swift, decisive, and well-justified action from their government, and specifically their commander-in-chief. Unfortunately, in today’s America, Donald Trump and congressional Republicans, in lock-step with the right-wing media, have, to this point, been more focused on running their own elaborate, far-reaching and well-financed public relations campaign to undermine the Special Counsel and his investigation. “Although Congress passed a bill last year requiring the imposition of sanctions ‘on and after’ January 29, 2018 as punishment for Russian meddling in our elections, the Trump Administration has, thus far, failed to impose the sanctions called for under that law. I recently questioned Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin on those sanctions, but he failed to provide an adequate explanation as to the Trump Administration’s inaction. Failure by federal officials to fully support the Special Counsel’s investigation, and to respond appropriately to the information we learn about the methods employed by Russians to interfere in our elections, is at best negligence, and at worst a willful dereliction of our sworn duty to the American people. “While much of discussion regarding Russian influence in our democratic process has focused on the 2016 presidential election, today’s indictment also confirms that Russia’s interference is not limited to merely presidential elections; it extends to every corner of our democracy including federal, state and local elections as well as regulatory rulemaking processes. In October, I revealed that Kremlin-linked accounts were targeting me on social media, and my fear was then, and is today, that Russia will continue to attack my congressional colleagues and congressional candidates heading into the 2018 elections and beyond. One of the primary Russian accounts responsible for attacks on me, @TEN_GOP, masqueraded as the Twitter account for the Tennessee Republican Party and tweeted falsehoods and lies about me and my district. Today, the @TEN_GOP account was explicitly mentioned in Special Counsel Mueller’s indictments as one of the many examples of foreign operated accounts existing solely to sow discord in the United States political system. “With the 2018 elections a few months away, the United States government cannot allow such interference by Russia, or any other foreign entity, to continue. While it is evident that the Special Counsel’s investigation will yield the answers we so desperately need, it is imperative that Members of Congress act on the information that has been revealed so far, and work to ensure that our constituents fully understand the clear and immediate threat that Russia poses to our democratic process, national security and most sacred traditions.” ###
02.15.2018	Waters Statement on South Florida High School Shooting WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement following the tragic shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida: “I am heartbroken to learn of yet another mass shooting, this time on the campus of a high school in Parkland, Florida, where at least 17 innocent lives were lost and 14 others were injured. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and families whose lives have forever been changed by this senseless act of violence. “While the facts are still developing, we know that a young man was able to legally purchase a deadly weapon and open fire in an environment that should have been a safe haven for children, educators, and members of the community. We also know that this was the 18th school shooting in the United States in the first 45 days of 2018. This is not only deeply disturbing, it’s a national disgrace. “As the nation mourns those who were lost and prays for those who were impacted, Members of Congress have a responsibility to resist the pressures of the gun lobby and pass the reforms that are so desperately needed to curtail gun violence and mass shootings in our country. To sit idly by and do nothing is a shameful dereliction of our responsibility to our children, our communities, and our nation.” ###
02.15.2018	Waters Statement on Trump’s Unconscionable, Unreasonable, and Unbalanced 2019 Budget WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon reviewing Donald Trump’s fiscal year 2019 budget proposal: “After signing a $1.5 trillion tax scam into law, Donald Trump has now presented an unconscionable, unreasonable, and unbalanced budget to the U.S. Congress. Donald Trump’s fiscal year 2019 budget proves just how little regard he has for the American people and the well-being of our economy. If this president were a serious leader, or a man with a shred of human decency, he wouldn’t have put forth such a reckless proposal to slash programs like Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid and gamble with the future of education, public housing, health care, and environmental protections in this country. While Donald Trump prioritizes the rich at the expense of the middle-class and the social safety net, I will continue to fight for a budget that protects communities in California’s 43rd Congressional District as well as children, seniors, veterans, people with disabilities, and working families all across this country.” The following programs and services would face extreme cuts under the Trump proposal: SOCIAL SECURITY: Donald Trump’s budget cuts $10.3 billion in Social Security disability benefits over 10 years. MEDICARE: Donald Trump’s budget cuts $500 billion from Medicare over 10 years. MEDICAID: Donald Trump’s budget cuts an astonishing $1.4 trillion from Medicaid over 10 years. HEALTH: Donald Trump’s budget repeals the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), thereby cutting $675 billion over 10 years and taking health insurance away from millions of Americans. It also cuts more than $1 billion from the Centers for Disease Control, $310 million from substance abuse and mental health programs, $145 million from the Nursing Workforce Development Program, and $43 million from the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program. EDUCATION: Trump’s budget makes college more expensive by cutting $203 billion over 10 years in student loan assistance, while cutting funding for the Department of Education by 5.6 percent ($3.8 billion) in fiscal year 2019. NUTRITION: Donald Trump’s budget cuts food stamps, formally known as the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), by $17 billion in 2019 and more than $213 billion over the next decade. It also proposes to change the way SNAP works by providing part of the benefits in the form of a box of food assembled by a new government bureaucracy. TRANSPORTATION: Donald Trump’s budget cuts funding for the Department of Transportation by 14 percent in fiscal year 2019, despite Trump’s promise to invest in infrastructure. It slashes highway, transit, and highway safety funding by $122 billion over 10 years and completely eliminates the TIGER grant program, which funds investments in transportation infrastructure by states and local transit agencies (e.g. Metro). HOUSING: Donald Trump’s budget cuts funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development by more than 24 percent (over $9 billion) in fiscal year 2019. It completely eliminates the Housing Trust Fund, the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative, and the Community Development Block Grant program, and it severely underfunds Section 8 Housing Choice Vouchers, Section 811 Housing for Persons with Disabilities, the Housing Counseling program, the Lead Hazard Reduction program, and the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS program. ENVIRONMENT: Donald Trump’s budget cuts funding for the Environmental Protection Agency by 26 percent in fiscal year 2019. It cuts clean air programs by 46 percent and cuts $1.3 billion from energy efficiency and renewable energy, while simultaneously increasing fossil fuel energy research and development by more than $80 million. It also completely eliminates the Chemical Safety Board, which investigates serious chemical accidents and is currently investigating an explosion at the Torrance Refinery in my congressional district. LABOR: Donald Trump’s budget cuts funding for the Department of Labor by almost $1.2 billion in fiscal year 2019. It cuts $407 million from Job Corps, $24 million from the National Labor Relations Board, $11 million from the Office of Disability Employment Policy, and $1 million from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. ###
02.03.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on the Release of One-Sided Republican Intelligence Committee Memo WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after a memo prepared by the staff of House Intelligence Committee Chairman Devin Nunes was released, with the consent of the President Donald Trump, over the objection of the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI): “Donald Trump, Devin Nunes, and congressional Republicans have reached a new and pathetic level of desperation in their efforts to distract from, and discredit, the Justice Department’s Russia investigation. For this president and Republican Members of Congress to deliberately defy protocols, process, and norms to selectively use highly classified information to mislead the American public is beyond irresponsible. “The Nunes memo cherry picks the details of how the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) established probable cause to conduct surveillance of Donald Trump’s campaign advisor, Carter Page, without offering the American people the full story. It implausibly suggests that the dossier prepared by Christopher Steele was the essential support for establishing probable cause against Page, and it fails to acknowledge that Carter Page has been of interest to the FBI for his contact with Russian spies since 2013.[1] This is a play right out of Vladimir Putin’s propaganda playbook for distorting public opinion and hiding the truth. Furthermore, it only begs the question: what are Donald Trump and his Republican allies so afraid of being revealed that they would make such a reckless and foolishly transparent attempt to distort the facts and undermine a federal investigation? “Abusing the Constitutional authority granted to the executive and legislative branches for personal and political gain is reprehensible. I stand with my colleagues who are calling for the immediate removal of Devin Nunes from the chairmanship of the House Intelligence Committee. “As we continue to see more reports in the media that Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III is getting closer to uncovering evidence of collusion and obstruction of justice, I remain confident that in the end, justice will prevail and this president will be impeached.” ### [1] https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/memo-points-to-fbis-ongoing-interest-in-trump-adviser-carter-page/2018/02/02/89bfdee2-077c-11e8-8777-2a059f168dd2_story.html?utm_term=.7f79f229e785
01.31.2018	Rep. Maxine Waters to Deliver State of the Union Response on BET WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, will deliver a televised response to Donald Trump’s State of the Union address, which will air on Wednesday, January 31 on BET at 10pm ET. Congresswoman Waters’ response is an exclusive for the BET News special, “Angela Rye’s State of the Union,” which will explore the first year of Donald Trump’s presidency and its impact on communities of color, particularly African Americans. “Donald Trump stood before the American people and delivered a speech filled with the same lies, reckless policies, and divisive rhetoric that the American people have, unfortunately, grown so accustomed to hearing from this president,” said Congresswoman Waters. “My response will discuss the true state of our union after one year of the dangerous, unprincipled, and chaotic presidency of Donald Trump.” For more information, please visit http://www.bet.com/angelaryessotu. ###
01.30.2018	Rep. Maxine Waters Announces Local Veteran as 2018 State of the Union Guest WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, announced today that U.S. Army Veteran Sherrod N. Conyers, Senior Vice Commander for the 4th District of California’s Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), will be her guest at the 2018 State of the Union on Tuesday, January 30. Sherrod Conyers is a resident of Gardena, CA and is a former U. S. Army officer who was deployed twice during his nearly five years of active military service to Jordan (2003) and Iraq (2005). In addition to his role as Senior Vice Commander of the 4th District VFW, Mr. Conyers also serves as the Post Surgeon of the Inglewood VFW (Post 2122) and Assistant Sargent-At-Arms of the National VFW. He is also a member of American Legion Post #188. Congresswoman Waters has worked closely with Mr. Conyers on a number of issues including securing federal funding for the Westside Residence Hall II, which houses nearly 200 Los Angeles County veterans, handling constituent services and casework through her Los Angeles office for veterans residing in the 43rd Congressional District, and an ongoing effort to relocate the Inglewood VFW. “Sherrod Conyers is a young man who fought for our country abroad and has displayed outstanding leadership in our community, and though I will not be attending the State of the Union, I am more than willing to accommodate any veteran from the 43rd Congressional District who would like to attend using my guest ticket,” said Congresswoman Waters. “At a time when so many of our nation’s service men and women are struggling to find good paying jobs, to identify affordable housing, and to secure full disability benefits and timely access to healthcare, Sherrod will represent thousands of veterans and military families in my District who are concerned about the future and the direction of this country under Donald Trump – a president who thus far has failed to display the type of leadership, compassion, and respect that is expected of the commander-in-chief.” “I am truly honored to be Congresswoman Maxine Waters’ guest at this year’s State of the Union,” said Mr. Conyers. “For more than a decade, I have worked closely with Congresswoman Waters, and I have witnessed firsthand how she has always made veterans a priority. Whether it is fighting to strengthen the Post 9/11 G.I. Bill, procuring federal funds to provide housing to homeless veterans, or helping local military families, Congresswoman Waters, in my opinion, embodies our VFW motto ‘No One Does More for Veterans’. I am so grateful that she is giving me an opportunity to represent the more than 300,000 veterans in Los Angeles County at the State of the Union.” As an advocate for veterans and military families, Congresswoman Waters has a long and strong history of working with a number of local and national veterans’ organizations including New Directions for Veterans, which honored her with their 2017 Legacy Award, the American Legion, and the United States Veterans Initiative (U.S. Vets). Congresswoman Waters is also the architect of the legislation that created the Department of Veteran’s Affairs (VA) Center for Women Veterans, a special bureau within the VA that advocates for women veterans by ensuring healthcare benefits and other programs are effectively meeting women's needs. In the 115th Congress, she has also introduced legislation to protect the Department of Veterans Affairs’ Individual Unemployability program, which assists disabled veterans who are unable to work, to curtail the predatory lending practices of for-profit colleges that target veterans, and to address the homelessness crisis, which is particularly acute for veterans and military families. ###
01.29.2018	Rep. Maxine Waters to Host SOTU Millennial Media Row on Capitol Hill WASHINGTON -- On Tuesday, January 30, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, will host a State of the Union (SOTU) Millennial Media Row for millennial media outlets and journalists to interview and engage with members of the House Democratic Caucus. The press event will provide a unique opportunity for Members of Congress to discuss what is at stake for millennials under the Trump Administration agenda and why young people should be involved in the democratic process. “To my utter surprise and delight I have been adopted by the millennial community, which has affectionately named me ‘Auntie Maxine’, and I have gained an understanding of the valuable ways in which these young people are using social media and the internet to voice their concerns about public policy, our government, and world events,” said Congresswoman Waters. “To that end, I am committed to being an enabler and a catalyst for millennials, ensuring that they have access to other elected officials and the legislative process, and that they also have an opportunity to be at the table to advise and develop public policy in the federal, state, and local government.” The SOTU Millennial Media row is the first event held exclusively for millennial media outlets to engage with Members of Congress on Capitol Hill in advance of a presidential State of the Union address. It is also the first in a series of press events that Congresswoman Waters will host to ensure that these outlets have a consistent presence on Capitol Hill. Tuesday’s event will include representatives from The Grio, Mic, Vibe, Elle, Glamour, Cheddar, Mass Appeal, Teen Vogue, and NowThis. ###
01.23.2018	Congresswoman Maxine Waters Statement on the Trump Shutdown WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon the passage of a continuing resolution which ended the Trump Shutdown: “The Trump Shutdown was nothing more than a political shake down by a morally bankrupt, inexperienced, and untrustworthy president, who has been enabled by Congressional Republicans and believes that the bullying and intimidation tactics he employed in his real-estate deals will work in the United States government. “A responsible and experienced legislator would realize that even a temporary shutdown could have a devastating impact on the economy, federal agencies, and federal employees and contractors across the country who become immediately and indefinitely furloughed. Instead, we have Donald Trump: a political amateur who rejected a compromise deal that was presented to him by a bipartisan group of Senators, thus ensuring the Trump Shutdown. Such irresponsibility cannot be overstated. “Despite the attempts by Donald Trump and Congressional Republicans to lie and distort the facts, the American people know the truth. This Trump Shutdown was caused by Donald Trump, for the sole benefit of Donald Trump and his dangerous agenda. “I continue to stand with my Democratic colleagues who voted no on the government funding bill. We will continue to fight for a budget that is reflective of our values and priorities which include providing disaster relief from hurricanes, floods, and wildfires such as those which impacted my home state of California; funding for our veterans and the military; protection for the DREAMers; reauthorization of community health center funding; and pension protection for American workers.” ###
01.19.2018	Waters Introduces Legislation to Increase Federal Funding for Obamacare Outreach Provides $1.2 Billion for Navigator Programs and Promotional Activities WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), introduced legislation to increase federal funding for outreach activities by the federal health insurance marketplaces, state-run health insurance marketplaces, and local advocacy organizations to encourage health coverage enrollment, particularly among minority, rural, and underserved communities; people with disabilities; and young adults. The bill, H.R. 4784 Affordable Care Act (ACA) Outreach for the Uninsured, Transformative Recruitment, and Enrollment Action for Compassionate Healthcare (OUTREACH) Act, is cosponsored by 36 Members of Congress and makes a $1.2 billion investment over a four-year period in order to address severe cuts by the Trump Administration, which slashed outreach activity funding by more than 90% in Fiscal Year 2017. “Our health care system is under attack by a president, administration, and Republican-controlled Congress that – after numerous failed attempts to repeal Obamacare – are sabotaging it for political gain. My legislation seeks to reverse their vindictive efforts to undermine and de-stabilize our health care system by ensuring that all consumers are provided with the information they need to make timely and well-informed decisions when purchasing health coverage through the federal and state-run marketplaces,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. The ACA OUTREACH Act would appropriate $300 million per year for ACA navigator grants and outreach and promotional activities for the next four fiscal years. Specifically, it provides: $100 million for grants to navigator programs, which provide funding to organizations that educate consumers and facilitate enrollment during the Annual Open Enrollment Periods; $100 million for outreach and promotional activities by the federal government in states with a federally-facilitated health insurance marketplace; and $100 million for grants to states with a state-based marketplace to enhance outreach activities. The bill also requires that outreach and promotional activities target individuals who are most likely to be uninsured, such as young adults, African Americans, Hispanics, and low-income Americans who, according to a Gallup-Sharecare Well-Being Index, represent the majority of the 3.2 million Americans that were uninsured in 2017. According to a recent Covered California report, marketing and outreach investments are essential to increasing overall enrollment in the health insurance market, attracting a healthier risk pool, lowering premiums, and encouraging health insurance companies to participate in the market with more certainty and potential returns. Covered California estimated that every dollar invested in marketing yields a more than three-to-one return on investment. “My home state of California has demonstrated outstanding leadership by aggressively investing in health care outreach and navigator programs. I am proud to introduce legislation that not only increases funding for promotional activities in our state but also takes steps to increase enrollment in underserved communities, lower health care premiums, and ensure a stable health insurance marketplace nationwide,” said Congresswoman Waters. The full text of H.R. 4784 can be found here. ###
01.12.2018	Rep. Waters’ Statement on Trump’s Vulgar Lies about Haitians LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement in response to Donald Trump’s comments about immigrants from Haiti. Haiti is one of the countries Trump referred to as “shithole countries” in an Oval Office meeting yesterday, during which he also said, “Why do we need more Haitians?” and “Take them out.” During a previous Oval Office meeting last June, Trump complained that 15,000 immigrants had come from Haiti, and they “all have AIDS.” The Congresswoman’s statement follows: “Donald Trump has proven that there is no limit to his hatred, bigotry, and vulgarity. As a longtime friend of Haiti who has traveled to the country numerous times, I am especially appalled by Trump’s racist and ignorant comments about Haiti. It is most unfortunate that these hateful comments came on the eve of the eighth anniversary of the tragic January 12, 2010, earthquake in Haiti, which killed between 220,000 and 300,000 people and displaced 1.5 million people from their homes. “Just thirteen days after the 2010 earthquake, I traveled to Haiti and witnessed the determination of the Haitian people to help one another survive the disaster and rebuild their nation in the wake of seemingly insurmountable odds. I returned to the United States determined to help them and promptly introduced H.R. 4573, the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act of 2010, to free Haiti from the burden of international debts and allow the country to focus its limited resources on its recovery efforts. This bill was passed by the House and Senate with strong, bipartisan support and signed into law by President Barack Obama on April 26, 2010. “An island nation in the Caribbean, Haiti is at extreme risk from hurricanes, and has survived numerous severe storms, including Hurricane Matthew in 2016, which washed away crops and caused millions of dollars in damages. Haiti is also struggling to recover from the introduction of cholera as a result of poor sanitation by United Nations peacekeepers in 2010. Approximately 10,000 Haitians have died, and nearly a million have been infected with cholera since then. “Over the last decade, Haiti has been devastated by an unrelenting series of natural disasters. Haitians have responded to each of these with humbling courage and tremendous resourcefulness, and I have worked hard to mobilize the support of my colleagues in Congress to assist them however and whenever we can. “I have also worked with my congressional colleagues, State Department officials, Haitian political leaders, and Haitian civil society to promote effective governance, democracy, and respect for human rights in Haiti, which has an unfortunate history of repressive dictatorships under corrupt, autocratic leaders. In 1994, I worked with then-President Bill Clinton and my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus to support the restoration of democracy in Haiti and allow democratically-elected President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was ousted by the brutal 1991 coup d’état, to return to Haiti and complete his term in office. “Following a second coup d’état in 2004, when President Aristide was taken by force to the Central African Republic, I traveled to that country, negotiated his release, and accompanied him to Jamaica. He then traveled to South Africa, where he remained until he was able to return safely to Haiti. I then worked with my colleagues in Congress to advocate for free, fair, and inclusive elections in Haiti, which resulted in the election of President René Préval in 2006. “Haiti has faced unyielding challenges throughout its history, and yet its people continue to resolutely face each and every obstacle they encounter. It is the only country to have achieved its independence as the result of a successful slave rebellion. It is a proud country of hard-working people, who continue to work to improve their lives and create a better future for themselves, their families, and their fellow citizens. “Donald Trump’s vulgar comments about Haitians illustrate his complete ignorance of Haitian history and what the country has endured. If Trump were not blinded by his own bigotry, he might be able to see the people of Haiti as the honorable and courageous people they are. “There is no hope for Donald Trump. He is a disgrace to the United States of America, and he should be impeached. But there is hope for the Haitians, and I stand by them.” ###
01.12.2018	Rep. Waters: Trump’s offshore oil drilling plan is heartless and cruel LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-California), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the Trump Administration’s decision to open up the entire Atlantic and Pacific coasts to offshore oil drilling: “Trump’s decision to open up the entire Atlantic and Pacific coasts to offshore oil drilling is an appalling giveaway to Trump’s wealthy friends in the oil and gas industry. This dangerous decision, made purely for political reasons and with no regard for the environmental cost of this policy, will put our ocean ecosystems at risk of devastating water pollution and catastrophic oil spills. “Offshore oil drilling is opposed by overwhelming bipartisan majorities throughout California, where families and small businesses depend upon the health of our oceans for food, commerce, and a thriving tourism industry. Trump’s blatant disregard for California’s coastal communities is heartless and cruel. “The arbitrary and capricious nature of Trump’s decision is further illustrated by Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke’s announcement that Florida will be exempted from expanded offshore oil drilling – in response to a request from that state’s Republican governor. Had Trump bothered to think the policy through, he would have realized the damage offshore oil drilling has not just on Democratic-leaning coastal states like California, but on states governed by his Republican allies. Offshore oil drilling is opposed by both Republicans and Democrats in coastal states that do not want a disaster like the Deepwater Horizon oil spill to mar their shores. “Trump’s offshore oil giveaway comes on top of numerous other policy decisions reflecting this administration’s hostile attitude towards environmental protection. His June 1st decision to withdraw the United States from the Paris agreement on climate change was an abdication of America’s global leadership. That decision weakened the ability of this landmark agreement to protect us from climate change and its impacts on human communities, impacts which include deadly hurricanes, severe droughts, raging wildfires, and rising sea levels. “Trump’s budget request for fiscal year 2018 reduces the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget by an astonishing 31 percent and eliminates 3,200 jobs, which is almost a quarter of the agency’s workforce. The budget eliminates the Clean Power Plan, which reduces carbon dioxide emissions; eliminates the Great Lakes and Chesapeake Bay regional cleanup programs; and cuts funding for environmental protection in California by more than $30 million. “Trump’s latest decision is just another example of his contempt for our environment.” ###
01.12.2018	Rep. Waters Statement on Donald Trump’s Racist Slurs About Immigrants LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to Donald Trump’s comments on immigrants from what he referred to as “shithole countries” during an Oval Office meeting: “Donald Trump is a racist and indecent man with no good values who is woefully unfit and undeserving of the office in which he serves. That this president, a deeply flawed human being with no understanding of public policy, would make such ill-informed and deplorable comments about Haitians, Salvadorans, and immigrants from African countries, merely underscores everything we already know about him: he is a hopeless and ignorant bigot. “Donald Trump dog-whistled his way into the White House, running a campaign based on hate, bigotry, and fear. Upon taking his oath of office, he surrounded himself with alt-right white nationalists, such as Steve Bannon, Stephen Miller, and Sebastian Gorka, and nominated a well-known racist, Jeff Sessions, to lead his Department of Justice. One of his first actions as president was to institute a prejudicial and potentially unconstitutional ‘Muslim ban’, and since then, his administration has significantly increased its efforts to target minority communities and increase deportations. Furthermore, when the KKK, neo-Nazis, and white nationalist groups rallied and ultimately murdered an innocent woman in Charlottesville, he refused to rebuke them. While he won’t denounce white nationalists from our nation’s highest office, he has leveled attacks on journalists, athletes, private citizens, and even Members of Congress – many of whom, not coincidentally, are people of color. “Donald Trump is crumbling under pressure from the ultra-right-wing conservatives. These radical conservatives elected Trump expecting him to use his presidential authority to deport thousands of innocent young people, many of whom were brought to this country as children and have since made positive contributions to our society. In true Trump-fashion, to compensate for his deficiencies and failure to grasp immigration policy, he has resorted to using an ignorant racial slur to denigrate people and countries about whom he knows nothing and for whom he has no care. Perhaps if these countries had white majorities, he might actually care about them. But they do not, and therefore he does not. “What's even worse than his racist comment and divisive tactics, he is a hopeless liar who believes that he can make these comments in the presence of others -- as he has done in this recent meeting with Members of Congress involved in negotiations about DACA – and then deny them, which only adds to the 2,000 lies that he has already told since taking office that have been documented by the media. “Donald Trump is an embarrassment and a national disgrace. Members of Congress have a responsibility to the American people and our democracy to impeach him. “Justification for impeachment of this president includes the obvious obstruction of justice; continuing revelations about his associates and members of his family who have questionable contacts and connections to Russia; the alienation of our allies abroad; the attacks on the media and the 1st Amendment of the Constitution; the name-calling and attacks on his political opponents; the disrespect of women, including a U.S. Senator who he implied would do anything for a political contribution; and all of the disgraceful, untruthful, and disturbing actions by this president that continue to prove that he has no respect for our country’s most sacred values and traditions. “No longer can Members of Congress, particularly Republicans, stand with such a dangerous, disturbed, and deceitful man who is a threat to everything for which America, the greatest democracy on earth, stands. Congress has a constitutional responsibility to impeach him without delay.” ###
01.12.2018	Congresswoman Maxine Waters Hails Opening of New Inglewood Senior Center LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement hailing the grand opening of the Inglewood Senior Center on Friday, January 12, in Inglewood, California: “I am pleased and overjoyed to join with the mayor, members of the city council, and citizens of the City of Inglewood for the Grand Open House of the Inglewood Senior Center.” Congresswoman Maxine Waters is proud to have secured federal grants totaling $4.5 million for the development of the new Inglewood Senior Center. Congresswoman Waters worked very hard over a seven-year period -- from 1999 through Fiscal Year 2005 – to support the City of Inglewood and the senior center. She is extremely proud that the center has finally come to fruition. The City of Inglewood is experiencing great economic development and considerable growth, and our seniors will not be left out. Our seniors will have an opportunity to access a safe, secure, and beautiful facility because of the vision of Congresswoman Maxine Waters and city council members past and present, including former Mayor Roosevelt Dorn and Mayor James Butts. “I consider the attention that we all afford our senior citizens in Inglewood to be a top priority as we continue to work hard toward providing them with the services they need and deserve. In addition to my support for senior services, I will continue to work on behalf of all the citizens of Inglewood. My office works closely with block clubs and other organizations throughout the City of Inglewood to respond to the concerns of the community. As a result, I have been successful in obtaining tens of millions of dollars in federal funds for the City of Inglewood to address noise mitigation, transportation and infrastructure, and other projects, in addition to the senior center, that improve the quality of life for the residents of Inglewood. I consider the realization of the Inglewood Senior Center one of the many high marks of my career, and I am dedicated to continuing my best efforts on behalf of all the citizens of the 43rd Congressional District.” ###
12.29.2017	Congresswoman Maxine Waters Honors Legacy of Della Reese LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), released the following statement honoring the late Della Reese whose life and legacy will be celebrated in a memorial service on Saturday, December 30, 2017 in Los Angeles: “I was deeply saddened to learn of my dear friend Della Reese’s passing last month. Della was a living legend and a woman of extraordinary talent, blessed with one of the most iconic voices of our time and a career that spanned several decades. While of course it was that powerful and distinct voice that earned her acclaim very early in her career, it was Della’s dynamic acting ability in various film and television projects, most notably the successful primetime series, ‘Touched by an Angel,’ that endeared her to millions of new fans who saw in Della’s character their own loving mother, friend, or guiding mentor helping to navigate them through life’s many trials and tribulations. Della’s work on that series was very much aligned with her personal life and work as an ordained minister in my district at the Understanding Principles for Better Living ‘UP’ Church in Inglewood, California – a ministry she steadfastly maintained by taking frequent flights between Inglewood and Salt Lake City, Utah where ‘Touched by an Angel’ was filmed. “I am very proud to have had the opportunity to know Della and experience firsthand her devotion to the church, her ministry, and ensuring our community’s young people understood their place and history. Della was the beneficiary of strong women role models from her mother to Mahalia Jackson who mentored and gave Della her first big break when she was just 13 years old. Della therefore always understood the importance of mentorship and passing on knowledge to the next generation, and on that account, she was a profoundly engrossing storyteller. The lessons and pain she experienced were fundamental components of her ministry and testimony. To those who truly knew Della, her soaring voice and commanding persona onscreen was only eclipsed by her heart and sincere compassion for mankind. “As we lay to rest the legendary Della Reese, it is my hope that we all reflect on her legacy this holiday season in sharing with one another the same love and compassion Della showed everyone she encountered. My sincere condolences are with Della’s husband, Frank, her children, family, and loved ones in Los Angeles and across the country.” ###
12.21.2017	Waters Leads 171 Dems in Letter of Support for Special Counsel Robert Mueller WASHINGTON – Today, 171 Members of Congress, led by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to the Deputy Attorney General of the United States, Rod J. Rosenstein, to express their support for the investigation being conducted by Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller, III. Special Counsel Mueller was appointed by Mr. Rosenstein on May 17, 2017 to lead an investigation into important matters arising out of the 2016 elections, including “any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump.” However, despite Mr. Mueller’s record of integrity, established through his previous service as the FBI Director during two presidential administrations, and despite the clear progress that Mr. Mueller is making in his investigation, the right-wing media, Republican Members of Congress and President Donald Trump, himself, have attempted to undermine Mr. Mueller’s investigation by advancing a false narrative that Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation is biased. “We write to express our support for the work of Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and to urge you to ensure that he be allowed to continue his investigation – unfettered by political influence or threats to his authority – to its natural and appropriate conclusion based on the law, the facts, and the evidence,” the Members wrote. The full text of the letter can be found below: The Honorable Rod J. Rosenstein Deputy Attorney General U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Deputy Attorney General, We write to express our support for the work of Special Counsel Robert S. Mueller III, and to urge you to ensure that he be allowed to continue his investigation – unfettered by political influence or threats to his authority – to its natural and appropriate conclusion based on the law, the facts, and the evidence. The Special Counsel is Conducting a Methodical Investigation, Yielding Results It is unimaginable that Republicans would seek to intervene, discredit, obstruct, or terminate the Special Counsel’s investigation. Thus far, from every public indication, it appears that Mr. Mueller is conducting a thorough and methodical investigation. He and his investigators have not sought, and instead avoided, the public spotlight. His team has not leaked, or hinted at, criminal allegations for which they have yet to develop charges. Furthermore, the charges that have been filed to date have been sufficiently strong, and well founded, as to elicit guilty pleas from President Donald Trump’s former National Security Advisor, Lieutenant General Michael Flynn, and a former foreign policy adviser to Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, George Papadopoulos.[1] The Appointment of a Special Counsel was Necessary and Proper As you know, pursuant to U.S. Department of Justice Order Number 3915-2017, which you issued on May 17, 2017, Mr. Mueller was appointed to serve as Special Counsel and authorized to conduct an investigation into matters “including: (i) any links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump; and (ii) any matters that arose or may arise directly from the investigation; and (iii) any other matters within the scope of 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a),”[2] which includes “authority to investigate and prosecute federal crimes committed in the course of, and with intent to interfere with, the Special Counsel’s investigation, such as perjury, obstruction of justice, destruction of evidence, and intimidation of witnesses.”[3] Your decision to appoint a Special Counsel to conduct such investigation was necessary and proper given: (1) the U.S. Intelligence Community’s assessment that “Russian President Vladimir Putin ordered an influence campaign in 2016 aimed at the US presidential election, the consistent goals of which were to undermine public faith in the US democratic process” and that “Putin and the Russian Government developed a clear preference for [President] Trump;” [4] (2) the obvious potential that individuals, who had served on President Donald J. Trump’s campaign, as well as individuals currently serving as political appointees in the Trump administration, could be targets of, or witnesses in, any such investigation; and (3) Attorney General Jeff Sessions’ recusal from “any matters related in any way to the campaigns for President of the United States.”[5] The Selection of Robert S. Mueller III to Serve as Special Counsel was Appropriate Under the circumstances described above, your selection of Robert Mueller to serve as the Special Counsel to conduct the investigation was an appropriate and commendable decision. Mr. Mueller has earned a reputation as a non-partisan professional investigator, making him an ideal choice to lead the investigation into the highly important, complex, and sensitive matters to which he has been charged. Mr. Mueller’s record demonstrates that he would not allow bias, influence, or other extraneous considerations to impact his investigation, and any suggestion otherwise is not credible. Mr. Mueller is a former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI), who was originally appointed by a Republican President. He was vetted and, twice, unanimously confirmed by the Senate. Specifically, when appointed in 2001 by President George W. Bush, Mueller was confirmed as FBI Director by a vote of 98 to 0 in the Senate,[6] and when Mueller was nominated for a second term, in 2011, during President Barack Obama’s administration, he was again unanimously confirmed in the Senate by a vote of 100 to 0. Mr. Mueller has earned bipartisan support. Republican members of the Senate attested to Mr. Mueller’s integrity and professionalism during Mr. Mueller’s confirmation hearings, which took place on July 30 and 31, 2001. For example, with regard to Mr. Mueller’s nomination to serve as FBI director, then Senator, now Attorney General, Jeff Sessions stated: “[I]t is great to see Mr. Mueller, nominated to take one of the most important positions in our country. It is a position that requires, in my view, serious experience, great integrity, and a proven record of accomplishment. And you have all of those things, [Robert Mueller]. When I was in the Department of Justice, ... [Robert] Mueller’s reputation was known throughout the Department of Justice, and he was known not for any political reason, but because he was recognized as a professional’s professional, a man whose skill at doing the job assigned to him was second to none…., there is no doubt in my mind, that there is no more professional prosecutor, no more professional person in America with experience in the Department of Justice, ready to handle the job of FBI Director than [Robert] Mueller.”[7] Likewise, Senator Mitch McConnell stated: “I believe Mr. Mueller will provide strong and effective leadership. Mr. Mueller has both impressive management and law enforcement experience. … [H]e is well-schooled in avoiding the problems and pitfalls inherent in criminal investigations and prosecutions. ...Mr. Mueller is not ‘of’ the FBI, and therefore I believe institutional loyalty will not blind him to making the hard decisions when he needs to.”[8] Senator McConnell also expressed his belief in Mr. Mueller’s commitment “to vigorously enforcing the law without regard to politics or partisanship.”[9] Speaker of the House Paul Ryan has also commented on Mr. Mueller’s lack of partisan bias. As reported in a July 24, 2017 Washington Examiner article, Speaker Ryan stated: “I don't think many people are saying [Robert] Mueller is a biased partisan. He's really, sort of, anything but.”[10] On October 11, 2017, Kenneth Starr, who was appointed in 1994 as the independent counsel who was tasked with investigations involving President Bill Clinton and then First Lady Hillary Clinton, commented on Robert Mueller and the manner in which his investigation is proceeding.[11] Mr. Starr stated that Mr. Mueller is conducting his investigation “aggressively and professionally.”[12] Mr. Starr also stated: “We’re not seeing ‘leaks’ out of the investigation as far as we know, and what we know of Bob Mueller and his background is that he is someone of total, rock-ribbed integrity.”[13] Regulations Limiting the Removal of a Special Counsel Must Be Followed Mr. Mueller must be allowed to complete his investigation, and should not be threatened with removal. However, a few Republicans have indicated their support for Mr. Mueller’s ouster. Notwithstanding the overwhelming reasons for Mr. Mueller to be allowed to continue and complete his investigation, the rule of law demands that the Trump administration follow Executive Branch regulations, which restrict the circumstances under which a special counsel can be removed. Specifically, 28 CFR § 600.7(d) regarding the removal or discipline of a special counsel provides: “The Special Counsel may be disciplined or removed from office only by the personal action of the Attorney General. The Attorney General may remove a Special Counsel for misconduct, dereliction of duty, incapacity, conflict of interest, or for other good cause, including violation of Departmental policies. The Attorney General shall inform the Special Counsel in writing of the specific reason for his or her removal.” Since Attorney General Sessions is recused, you, in your capacity as acting Attorney General regarding Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation, are the only individual empowered to remove Mr. Mueller under regulation. Furthermore, the regulation clearly states that Mr. Mueller may only be removed for good cause, which has not been demonstrated. The administration is required to follow its own regulations and not remove Mr. Mueller from his investigation. Politically Motivated Challenges of Special Counsel Mueller and His Investigation Must Not Be Allowed to Threaten the Investigation Despite Special Counsel Mueller’s record of integrity, as attested to by these Republican leaders, and despite the clear progress that Mr. Mueller is making in his investigation, the right-wing media, some Republican Members of Congress and Donald Trump, himself, have attempted to advance a false narrative that Special Counsel Mueller’s investigation is biased, and some have advocated for Mr. Mueller’s removal. On June 15, 2017, referring in general terms to the Russia investigation, President Trump stated on social media: “You are witnessing the single greatest WITCH HUNT in American political history — led by some very bad and conflicted people!”[14] In Congress, four Republican Members, led by Rep. Matt Gaetz and including former Rep. Trent Franks, who has now resigned amidst an Ethics Committee investigation into his own conduct, have cosponsored a resolution calling for Mueller to step down. Those members have attempted to advance baseless claims of the existence of a conflict due to Mr. Mueller’s previous service as FBI Director. Those arguments do not have merit, and appear intended, at best, to redirect the public’s focus toward matters that are wholly unrelated to the investigation to which Mr. Mueller has been tasked. At worst, those arguments are intended to stop or preemptively tarnish the perception of the Special Counsel’s work. The issues referenced in that Republican resolution pertain to allegations against former President Bill Clinton and former presidential candidate Hillary Clinton related to a 2009-2010 matter, which has nothing to do with Mr. Mueller’s directive to investigate “links and/or coordination between the Russian government and individuals associated with the campaign of President Donald Trump.”[15] As quoted in a December 12, 2017 Politico article, Rep. Matt Gaetz stated that he told President Trump that he was “concerned” that Mr. Mueller’s investigation “was infected with bias.”[16] Rep. Gaetz said the president responded: “That’s why you guys have got to do your job.”[17] Rep. Gaetz further stated that he informed the president that you would be testifying before the House Judiciary Committee on December 13, 2017, in response to which Rep. Gaetz said President Trump “encouraged us to exercise our oversight responsibilities.”[18] This conversation, as described by Rep. Gaetz, suggests that President Trump is encouraging the ring leaders of the recent criticisms against Mr. Mueller in order to pressure you to affect the investigation through the congressional oversight process. That is unacceptable. Some have alleged that Mr. Mueller’s removal of a member of his team, Peter Strzok, over text messages sent by Mr. Strzok that were critical of President Trump suggests bias or a lack of objectivity on the Special Counsel’s team. However, upon learning of the text messages, Mr. Mueller immediately removed Mr. Strzok from the investigation.[19] In reality, this incident and Mr. Mueller’s swift response demonstrates Mr. Mueller’s integrity as well as his desire and commitment to conduct an investigation that is beyond reproach. You must not allow the targets of the investigation, or issues being investigated, to escape thorough independent inquiry through the removal, or hindrance, of the Special Counsel. We thank you for your careful attention to this letter, and we stand ready to support you in upholding the rule of law. Sincerely, Rep. Maxine Waters Rep. Brenda Lawrence Rep. Alma Adams Rep. Alfred Lawson Jr. Rep. Pete Aguilar Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Nanette Barragan Rep. Sandy Levin Rep. Karen Bass Rep. John Lewis Rep. Joyce Beatty Rep. Ted Lieu Rep. Ami Bera Rep. Daniel W. Lipinski Rep. Don Beyer Rep. Dave Loebsack Rep. Sanford Bishop Rep. Zoe Lofgren Rep. Earl Blumenauer Rep. Alan Lowenthal Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester Rep. Nita M. Lowey Rep. Suzanne Bonamici Rep. Ben Ray Luján Rep. Brendan F. Boyle Rep. Michelle Lujan Grisham Rep. Robert Brady Rep. Stephen F. Lynch Rep. Anthony Brown Rep. Carolyn B. Maloney Rep. Julia Brownley Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney Rep. G. K. Butterfield Rep. Doris Matsui Rep. Michael E. Capuano Rep. Betty McCullum Rep. Salud Carbajal Rep. Donald McEachin Rep. Tony Cárdenas Rep. James P. McGovern Rep. Andre D. Carson Rep. Jerry McNerney Rep. Matt Cartwright Rep. Gregory Meeks Rep. Judy Chu Rep. Grace Meng Rep. David Cicilline Rep. Gwen Moore Rep. Katherine Clark Rep. Seth Moulton Rep. Yvette D. Clarke Rep. Jerrold Nadler Rep. Wm. Lacy Clay Rep. Grace Napolitano Rep. Emmanuel Cleaver Rep. Richard E. Neal Rep. James Clyburn Rep. Richard Nolan Rep. Steve Cohen Rep. Donald Norcross Rep. Gerry Connolly Del. Eleanor Holmes Norton Rep. Jim Cooper Rep. Tom O’Halleran Rep. J. Luis Correa Rep. Beto O’Rourke Rep. Joe Courtney Rep. Frank Pallone, Jr. Rep. Charlie Crist Rep. Jimmy Panetta Rep. Joseph Crowley Rep. Bill Pascrell, Jr. Rep. Henry Cuellar Rep. Donald Payne Jr. Rep. Elijah Cummings Rep. Ed Perlmutter Rep. Danny Davis Rep. Scott Peters Rep. Susan Davis Rep. Chellie Pingree Rep. Peter DeFazio Del. Stacey Plaskett Rep. Diana DeGette Rep. Mark Pocan Rep. John Delaney Rep. Jared Polis Rep. Rosa DeLauro Rep. David Price Rep. Suzan K. DelBene Rep. Mike Quigley Rep. Val Demings Rep. Jamie Raskin Rep. Mark DeSaulnier Rep. Cedric Richmond Rep. Theodore E. Deutch Rep. Jacky Rosen Rep. Debbie Dingell Rep. Lucille Roybal-Allard Rep. Lloyd Doggett Rep. Raul Ruiz Rep. Mike Doyle Rep. Bobby L. Rush Rep. Keith Ellison Rep. Tim Ryan Rep. Eliot L. Engel Rep. Linda T. Sánchez Rep. Anna Eshoo Rep. John Sarbanes Rep. Adriano Espaillat Rep. Jan Schakowsky Rep. Dwight Evans Rep. Bobby Scott Rep. Lois Frankel Rep. David Scott Rep. Marcia Fudge Rep. Jose Seranno Rep. Ruben Gallego Rep. Terri Sewell Rep. John Garamendi Rep. Carol Shea-Porter Rep. Jimmy Gomez Rep. Brad Sherman Rep. Al Green Rep. Albio Sires Rep. Gene Green Rep. Louise Slaughter Rep. Raúl M. Grijalva Rep. Adam Smith Rep. Luis Guiterrez Rep. Darren Soto Rep. Colleen Hanabusa Rep. Jackie Speier Rep. Alcee L. Hastings Rep. Thomas Suozzi Rep. Danny Heck Rep. Eric Swalwell Rep. Brian Higgins Rep. Mark Takano Rep. Steny Hoyer Rep. Bennie G Thompson Rep. Jared Huffman Rep. Mike Thompson Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee Rep. Dina Titus Rep. Pramila Jayapal Rep. Paul Tonko Rep. Hakeem Jeffries Rep. Niki Tsongas Rep. Hank Johnson Rep. Juan Vargas Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson Rep. Marc Veasey Rep. Marcy Kaptur Rep. Filemon Vela Rep. Robin Kelly Rep. Nydia Velazquez Rep. Joseph P. Kennedy, III Rep. Tim Walz Rep. Ro Khanna Rep. Debbie Wasserman Shultz Rep. Dan Kildee Rep. Bonnie Watson Coleman Rep. Derek Kilmer Rep. Peter Welch Rep. Raja Krishnamoothi Rep. Frederica Wilson Rep. Ann McLane Kuster Rep. John Yarmuth Rep. James Langevin Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. John B. Larson ### [1]Statement of the Office, U.S. v. George Papadopoulos, Case 1:17-cr-00182-RDM (Oct. 5, 2017) (online at https://www.justice.gov/file/1007346/download); Statement of the Offense, U.S. v. Michael T. Flynn, Case 1:17-cr-00232-RC (Dec. 1, 2017) (online at https://www.justice.gov/file/1015126/download). [2] U.S. Department of Justice, Order Number 3915-2017 (May 17, 2017) (online athttps://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/967231/download). [3] 28 C.F.R. § 600.4(a) (online at https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/28/600.4). [4] Office of the Director of National Intelligence, Background to “Assessing Russian Activities and Intentions in Recent US Elections”: The Analytic Process and Cyber Incident Attribution (Jan. 6 2017). (https://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3254235/ICreport010616.pdf). [5] U.S. Department of Justice, Attorney General Sessions Statement on Recusal (Mar. 2, 2017) (online athttps://assets.documentcloud.org/documents/3480076/Read-the-full-DOJ-statement-on-the-recusal-of.pdf). [6] Congressional Research Service, FBI Director: Appointment and Tenure (Feb. 19 2014) (online athttps://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41850.pdf). [7] U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary, Confirmation Hearing on the Nomination of Robert S. Mueller, III to be Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (July 30 and 31, 2001) (online athttps://www.congress.gov/107/chrg/shrg80335/CHRG-107shrg80335.htm). [8] Id. [9] Id. [10] Paul Ryan to Trump: Robert Mueller is 'anything but' a partisan, Washington Examiner (July 24, 2017) (online at https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/paul-ryan-tells-trump-robert-mueller-is-anything-but-a-partisan/article/2629477). [11] Congressional Research Service, Special Counsels, Independent Counsels, and Special Prosecutors: Options for Independent Executive Investigations (June 1, 2017) (online at https://fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R44857.pdf). [12] Ken Starr praises Mueller’s Trump-Russia probe, The Hill (October 11, 2017) (online athttp://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/354868-ken-starr-praises-muellers-trump-russia-probe). [13] Id. [14] Trump: 'You are witnessing the single greatest WITCH HUNT in American political history', The Hill (June 15, 2017) (online at http://thehill.com/homenews/administration/337901-trump-you-are-witnessing-the-single-greatest-witch-hunt-in-american). [15] U.S. Department of Justice, Order Number 3915-2017 (May 17, 2017) (online athttps://www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/967231/download). [16] GOP congressman to Trump: Mueller probe 'infected with bias', Politico (Dec. 12, 2017) (online athttps://www.politico.com/story/2017/12/12/matt-gaetz-trump-mueller-russia-investigation-292731). [17] Id. [18] Id. [19] FBI agent removed from Mueller investigation over anti-Trump messages, CNN (Dec. 4, 2017) (online athttp://www.cnn.com/2017/12/02/politics/fbi-agent-removed-trump-investigation/index.html).
12.20.2017	The Republican Tax Scam Takes from the Poor and Gives to the Rich WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after Congress passed the Republican tax bill: “The Republican Tax Scam takes from the poor and gives to the rich.” ###
12.19.2017	Rep. Waters: Tax and Spend Republicans Just Sold Out Middle America WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the U.S. House passed the GOP tax bill: “Today an unpopular Speaker, historically unpopular President, and dreadfully unpopular Republican-led Congress are celebrating the passage of a wildly unpopular bill that no one wanted. The Republican tax bill is a scam. It is a giveaway to corporations and the top 1% of wealthy Americans. The bill raises taxes on the hard-working middle class, borrows against the future by adding trillions to the deficit, forces millennials to fix our deficit crisis years from now, and rapidly accelerates the concentration of wealth toward the top 1%. This is yet another conscious decision by the Trump Administration to ignore the needs of millions of Americans who have worked hard to provide for themselves and their families, and, instead, prioritize the profits of large corporations, GOP donors, special interest groups, and Donald Trump himself. “I have long advocated for tax policies that support working families and small businesses. The tax code can be used to help Americans obtain an education, recover from a natural disaster, care for a sick loved one, save for the future, and start a business. These are the policies for which I have advocated my entire career. These should be the goals of any tax plan. Instead, this bill creates tax brackets that disproportionately benefit the very wealthy. It caps the state and local income, property, and sales tax deduction (SALT) to $10,000; California taxpayers claiming a SALT deduction received, on average, $18,000 last year. The Republican tax bill also repeals parts of Obamacare, which will result in 13 million people losing health insurance, and premiums rising by an average of 10 percent. Because the tax cuts for large corporations are permanent, unlike tax cuts for middle class individuals, the bill adds trillions to the deficit. These trillions will trigger automatic cuts to programs like Medicare, federal student loans, and agriculture subsidies. This tax bill was written to benefit only the richest among us. In the bill’s first year, 2018, almost two-thirds of the benefits will go to the richest fifth of Americans. By 2027, more than half of Americans — 53 percent — will pay more in taxes under this bill than they would under current law. In that same year, 83 percent of the bill’s benefits will go to the top 1 percent and every single income group earning below $75,000 will see a tax increase. “The GOP tax scam gives pennies to the middle class — which Republicans claim is proof their tax scam works — while Trump and his donors line their pockets with hundred dollar bills. Even the slight benefit Americans see in the first few years of the tax bill will expire. Americans are not so easily fooled. I’ve heard from my constituents, who have urged me to fight against the Republican plan to further enrich the rich, and I will continue to do so by working for an America that supports all of us, and not just a few of us.” ###
12.14.2017	Rep. Waters on FCC Vote to End Net Neutrality: The Fight is Not Over WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) passage of Chairman Pai’s plan to repeal net neutrality: “Today’s FCC vote in favor of Chairman Pai’s plan to repeal net neutrality, which will allow internet service providers (ISPs) like Comcast, AT&T and Verizon to restrict their customers’ access to certain websites, slow download and streaming speeds, raise prices for use of various applications and devices, or worse, rob American citizens of our 1st Amendment right to share our views freely online, is shameful. This is yet another decision by the Trump Administration to ignore millions of Americans who have raised their voices in support a free and open internet, and, instead, prioritize the profits of large corporations and powerful special interest groups. “As a champion of net neutrality, I have fought to ensure that all consumers have equal access to internet content and the ability to express their views freely online. In 2010, I wrote to the FCC in support of net neutrality rules that better considered the needs of minority communities. In 2011, I raised concerns about how the rapid concentration of the media industry might result in the promotion of some content over others, in violation of net neutrality and at the expense of minority-owned and minority-produced programming. In 2015, I urged the agency to commit to reclassifying ISPs as Title II ‘common carriers,’ a designation that allowed for the regulatory framework to create robust net neutrality rules. The FCC listened then, creating the most comprehensive net neutrality regulations to date. In the wake of Chairman Pai’s repeal of those rules, I am extremely disappointed that I am again forced to defend a concept, which all three branches of government have debated and vetted over the better part of the last decade. “A free and open internet is a necessity in the 21st century. It allows entrepreneurs to start and grow new businesses, individuals to express their creativity and views online, and diverse communities all across the country to communicate, organize and even mobilize. My constituents have consistently urged me to support net neutrality, and I stand with them in saying this fight is not over. I will continue to work in support of an internet that allows every American to freely communicate and access information.” ###
12.14.2017	Congresswoman Waters Leads Dems in Fight for Infrastructure Funding WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced landmark legislation to create jobs in the 43rd Congressional District and other communities throughout our nation by funding investments in transportation and water infrastructure. The legislative package consists of two bills, the Transportation Infrastructure for Job Creation Act (H.R. 3858) and the Drinking Water Infrastructure for Job Creation Act (H.R. 3859), which together will provide emergency supplemental appropriations totaling $15 billion over the next six years for job creation through investments in our nation’s infrastructure. Her two bills were cosponsored by 69 and 60 of her colleagues, respectively. “My legislation will provide important funding to improve roads, bridges, transit, and drinking water infrastructure in my district and throughout the United States,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “It will also create jobs and economic growth for working families in cities like Los Angeles, Inglewood, Torrance, and Gardena.” Congresswoman Waters played a critical role in obtaining federal support for Metro’s Crenshaw LAX Corridor, which will improve transit access in the 43rd Congressional District. It includes stations serving Inglewood, Westchester, and LAX airport. Construction is on schedule for completion by October 2019. “I was proud to help Metro obtain federal support for the Crenshaw LAX Corridor, but I know we must do more to invest in infrastructure for the 21st Century,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “My legislation could provide funding for critical improvements to local highways, reduce traffic congestion, and assist local transit agencies, such as Torrance Transit and the Gardena GTrans system.” Infrastructure investments have a track-record of success for creating good paying jobs for hard-working Americans regardless of educational attainment. According to the Brookings Institute, infrastructure jobs usually represent long-term, well-paid opportunities for the two-thirds of U.S. workers who lack four-year college degrees.[1] The Transportation Infrastructure for Job Creation Act provides an emergency supplemental appropriation totaling $7.5 billion dollars over the next six years for investments in transportation infrastructure through the successful “TIGER” program, which provides competitive grants to local governments and transit agencies to fund innovative highway, bridge, and transit projects. The Drinking Water Infrastructure for Job Creation Act provides an emergency supplemental appropriation totaling $7.5 billion dollars over the next six years for the Drinking Water State Revolving Funds, which help public water systems finance infrastructure projects in order to replace lead pipes, upgrade water infrastructure, and ensure clean drinking water for families. “A safe, efficient, modern, and accessible transportation system and access to safe, clean drinking water is vital for a healthy environment and a vibrant economy,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I urge my colleagues in the Republican-controlled House to join me in fighting for good paying jobs and the infrastructure repairs our country so desperately needs through the Transportation and Drinking Water Infrastructure for Job Creation legislative package.” ### [1] https://www.brookings.edu/research/expanding-opportunity-through-infrastructure-jobs/.
12.08.2017	Waters Statement on Southern California Wildfires LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on the wildfires that continue to rage across many counties in Southern California, including Los Angeles County: “I am alarmed by the wildfires that are blazing a path of destruction across Southern California, leaving thousands of families displaced and hundreds of homes and businesses in ruin, particularly in Los Angeles, Ventura, and San Diego counties, which were declared as being in a state of emergency this week. My thoughts and prayers are with all those who have been affected by the fires. “Wildfires of this magnitude are traumatic events that have the potential to destroy whole communities and put many lives at risk. I commend and support the emergency personnel, first responders, and other unsung heroes who have, at the risk of their own lives and safety, worked tirelessly to contain the fires and assist those who have been impacted. “I encourage all residents to heed the advice of local authorities related to evacuation and emergency preparedness. In the event of an emergency, please dial 911. For other information or assistance related to the fires, please contact the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection’s (Cal Fire) information line at (323) 881-2412 or visit www.calfire.ca.gov.” ###
12.07.2017	Rep. Waters Commends Colleagues for Introducing Senate Companion to her Alzheimer’s Stamp Bill Calls for Robust Funding of Alzheimer’s Research WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-California), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, urged robust funding for Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) during a press conference on Capitol Hill, which highlighted the availability of Alzheimer’s research fundraising postal stamps. The Congresswoman also urged passage of her bill (H.R. 2973), which would make the Alzheimer’s stamps available for six years. Her remarks as prepared for delivery follow: “I want to thank my colleagues, Congressman Elijah Cummings [D-Maryland] and Senators Ed Markey [D-Massachusetts]; Chris Van Hollen [D-Maryland]; and Shelley Moore Capito [R-West Virginia] for their leadership on Alzheimer’s disease, and I especially want to thank Senator Markey for being at the forefront of Alzheimer’s advocacy throughout his career in both the House and the Senate. I also want to thank Kathy Siggins, whose tireless advocacy has helped make the Alzheimer’s stamp a reality. “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, I have been an advocate for an Alzheimer’s research fundraising stamp for years. Last year, I wrote a letter urging the U.S. Postal Service to issue an Alzheimer’s stamp, and my letter was signed by 41 Members of Congress. Earlier this year, I reintroduced the Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 2973) to establish an Alzheimer’s stamp and make it available to the public for six years. That bill is supported by 130 Members of Congress. “Alzheimer’s is a tragic disease affecting more than five million Americans. There is no effective treatment, no means of prevention, and no method for slowing the progression of the disease. “I am so proud that the Postal Service has heeded our call and established an Alzheimer’s stamp. I am also proud that my Senate colleagues are introducing a Senate companion to my bill, in order to make this stamp available for six years instead of two. “Nevertheless, while the creation of this stamp is an important victory, it cannot replace congressionally-appropriated funding for Alzheimer’s research. Unfortunately, we are approaching the end of the year without a plan to keep the government open and fund critical agencies like the National Institutes of Health. “I call upon my colleagues to pass our legislation and make the Alzheimer’s stamp available for six years, and I call upon my colleagues to keep the government open and provide robust funding for urgent national priorities like Alzheimer’s research.” ###
12.01.2017	U.S. Postal Service Agrees to Rep. Waters’ Request for a New Alzheimer’s Stamp Stamp Will Promote Public Awareness and Raise Funds for Research WASHINGTON — In response to a request and advocacy by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, the U.S. Postal Service held a ceremony yesterday to dedicate a new Alzheimer’s Semipostal Fundraising Stamp. “I am pleased that the Postal Service has responded to my request to adopt a new Alzheimer’s Semipostal Fundraising Stamp,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The new stamp will promote public awareness and raise funds for medical research for this tragic disease, which affects more than five million Americans and has no effective treatment.” Congresswoman Waters introduced the Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 2973) on June 21, 2017, to require the Postal Service to issue a semipostal stamp promoting Alzheimer’s awareness and research. The bill is supported by 130 Members of Congress representing both political parties. Semipostal stamps cost slightly more than traditional stamps in order to allow the public to donate to worthwhile causes. On July 1, 2016, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter urging the Postal Service to issue an Alzheimer’s stamp as the first stamp under its discretionary authority. This letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 41 Members of Congress under the leadership of Rep. Waters; Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease; and Task Force Member John Garamendi (D-CA). The Alzheimer’s stamp is now the first stamp issued under the Postal Service’s discretionary program, just as the Congresswoman had requested in her letter. The price of the Alzheimer’s stamp includes the First-Class Mail single-piece postage rate in effect at the time of purchase plus an additional amount to fund Alzheimer’s research. The additional funds raised will be distributed to the National Institutes of Health, where they will be used by medical researchers who are working to find a cure. ###
12.01.2017	Congresswoman Waters Commemorates World AIDS Day Urges robust funding for HIV/AIDS programs and health coverage for Americans living with HIV/AIDS WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a congressional leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS, issued a statement in recognition of World AIDS Day, which is celebrated every year on December 1st. Her statement follows: “Today, as we commemorate World AIDS Day 2017, we face unprecedented challenges in our struggle against HIV/AIDS. Republicans in Congress are debating proposals to slash funding for HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment efforts and take health insurance away from millions of Americans, including those who are living with HIV/AIDS. “Donald Trump’s proposed budget for 2018 slashes funding for the entire Department of Health and Human Services by $12.6 billion. It cuts funding for the National Institutes of Health by more than $7 billion, and it cuts funding for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention by $1.2 billion. This would devastate HIV/AIDS prevention, screening, and treatment programs, as well as efforts to find a cure. “House Republicans passed a despicable budget in September that cut funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative by more than $70 million in fiscal year 2018. That important program was established under my leadership in 1998 to reduce the significant HIV/AIDS disparities affecting racial and ethnic minorities. Moreover, the Republicans’ budget provided no funding whatsoever for the Minority AIDS Initiative Secretary’s Fund, an essential part of the initiative. I submitted an amendment to the House Rules Committee to restore funding for this important program, but the Republican-dominated Rules Committee refused to allow me to offer my amendment. “Another challenge we face today is the Republicans’ determination to repeal the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as Obamacare. Without Obamacare, insurance companies will once again be able to deny coverage to people living with HIV/AIDS and other pre-existing conditions. Furthermore, without Obamacare, states like California that expanded Medicaid will not be able to cover low-income adults living with HIV/AIDS. “Last May, House Republicans passed an Obamacare repeal bill that would cut $800 billion from Medicaid and cause 23 million Americans to lose their health insurance. While the Senate has, thus far, refused to pass that bill, the Senate is now debating a shameful bill that would cause 13 million Americans to lose their health insurance in order to pay for tax breaks for millionaires, billionaires, and wealthy corporations. “Americans living with HIV/AIDS deserve better! “On World AIDS Day 2017, we must confront the challenges we face, and we must resist all attempts to abandon the struggle against this terrible disease. We must fight to protect Obamacare, and we must fight to stop budget cuts to all of the federal programs serving people affected by HIV/AIDS. We must expand research, prevention, screening and treatment efforts, and we must fight to make sure all Americans living with HIV/AIDS receive the care and treatment they need and deserve.” ###
11.30.2017	Congresswoman Waters Slams FCC Chairman Ajit Pai’s Plan to End Net Neutrality WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai’s proposal to repeal net neutrality rules: "American consumers must have equal access to the internet. However, Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Ajit Pai announced a plan to push forward with a repeal of net neutrality that threatens that access. On December 14th, the FCC will put that plan to a vote. If they vote in favor of Chairman Pai’s plan to repeal net neutrality it will strip away federal protections that prevent internet service providers (ISP), like Comcast, AT&T, and Verizon, from selling internet access to the highest bidder. “Without net neutrality rules, these massive ISPs will be allowed to speed up and slow down the internet, block website traffic, and prioritize customers who pay more. These rules prevent these companies from demanding more money for the same internet. A free, accessible, and open internet is especially important to students, communities of color, and many other consumers who may not be able to pay. People rely on the internet to conduct business, exercise their first amendment rights, and connect to loved ones. Net neutrality rules protect this way of life. “I have been a long-time champion of advancing telecommunications policies that protect consumers and internet freedom. I have actively advocated for net neutrality since the public interest efforts in 2009 surrounding the Comcast-NBC merger, and continuing through the subsequent debates in Congress. Chairman Pai’s shameful actions threaten my work, and lay the foundation for big corporations to manipulate the internet for profit. I hope the FCC listens to the millions of Americans who have spoken out in favor of net neutrality and reject Chairman Pai’s proposal. I am committed to working against any actions which weaken net neutrality." ###
11.22.2017	Rep. Waters Statement on Rep. John Conyers, Jr. LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Congressman John Conyers, Jr. (MI-13): “As a strong advocate for the rights and respect of women, I abhor sexual harassment, sexual abuse, and sexual assault in any shape, form, or fashion, and I believe that anyone who is guilty of such offenses must be held accountable. “When I delivered remarks at the Women’s March Convention Sojourner Truth Luncheon in Detroit, Michigan on October 28, 2017, I acknowledged the women of the United States Congress’ Michigan delegation, Senator Debbie Stabenow, Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence, and Congresswoman Debbie Dingell, and gave particular recognition to Congressman John Conyers, Jr. whose district includes Detroit. I had no prior knowledge of the very serious and disturbing allegations of sexual assault and misconduct by Mr. Conyers that were first revealed on November 20, 2017, nearly one month after the event. My October 28 comments were solely based on Mr. Conyers’ long history of support for women’s issues and organizations such as the National Organization for Women. “The House Ethics Committee has announced that they are investigating Mr. Conyers, and I encourage him to fully cooperate with their investigation.” ###
11.21.2017	Rep. Waters’ Statement on the Termination of Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haiti WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the decision announced by Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Elaine Duke to terminate the Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designation for Haiti effective July 22, 2019, following an 18-month delay: “As a long-time friend of Haiti, I am deeply dismayed by the decision of Elaine Duke, the Acting Secretary of Homeland Security, to terminate Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haiti, effective July 22, 2019. This senseless and heartless decision creates fear and uncertainty for 50,000 Haitians who have been living and working lawfully in the United States for many years. “Having visited Haiti numerous times during my tenure in Congress, I can say from personal experience that Haiti is in no position to accept the return of 50,000 people over the next 18 months. Haiti is still struggling to recover from the devastating 2010 earthquake, which killed more than 300,000 people and displaced more than one million people from their homes. Haiti’s recovery has been hampered by a continuing cholera epidemic and several severe storms, including Hurricane Matthew in October of 2016 and Hurricanes Irma and Maria this year. “While Secretary Duke stated in her announcement that the number of displaced people in Haiti has decreased by 97 percent since the earthquake, this by no means justifies forcing 50,000 people to return to Haiti, where there is still a severe shortage of housing and widespread unemployment. “Haitian TPS beneficiaries directly contribute to the American economy. They work, pay taxes, spend money, and contribute to the Social Security and Medicare systems. About 30 percent are homeowners, stimulating the real estate industry and paying local property taxes. One in nine in the labor force is self-employed, and many of them have created jobs for others in their communities. Indeed, a recent report found that the termination of Haitian TPS would cost the United States $2.8 billion over a decade in lost gross domestic product. “Haitian TPS beneficiaries have been fully integrated into their communities. Many of them have children who are U.S. citizens. They deserve to be treated with compassion and respect. I will continue working tirelessly to protect all of the law-abiding Haitians who live and work in American communities.” ###
11.05.2017	Waters Statement on Shooting at First Baptist Church in Sutherland Springs, Texas​ Los Angeles – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement following news reports of a mass shooting at a church in Sutherland Springs, Texas that killed at least 26 and injured 20: “My sincerest condolences are with the families of all the victims of the mass shooting in Sutherland Springs, Texas. As we experienced during the massacre at Mother Emanuel AME Church in Charleston, South Carolina, these execution-style shootings are especially horrific when the gunman indiscriminately opens fire on families, friends, and children gathered in prayer in what is, for so many, a sacred sanctuary in a world filled with chaos. “These mass killings have become all too common and frequent. We now live in a time in which it appears no place is entirely safe from the threat of violence. Our movie theatres, concert venues, clubs, schools, college campuses, churches, and parks have all become backdrops to some of the deadliest shootings in United States’ history. “The thoughts and prayers expressed by elected leaders are not enough. A moment of silence in Congress means nothing to yet another group of families mourning the loss of their loved ones. Members of Congress must do more than stand on the steps of the Capitol. We must be prepared to take action against the pressures of the gun lobby and pass credible reforms to curb the incidents of mass shootings. While no single solution will stop all mass shootings, we can make sure that criminals and people with mental disabilities are not allowed to purchase weapons meant for wartime combat. The fact of the matter is that if ISIS was at this point responsible for as many deaths of Americans on U.S. soil as the armed gunmen in recent years, Congress would have already acted to deal with the perpetrators as a matter of national security.” ###
11.02.2017	Rep. Waters Slams GOP’s Shameful Pro-Billionaire Tax Scam WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after House Republicans unveiled details of their tax legislation: “Today, House Republicans finally unveiled the details of their shameful tax bill, which includes sweeping cuts for millionaires, billionaires, and corporations at the expense of working families and the middle-class. “For Californians, and residents of my district in particular, the Republican tax plan is devastating. It eliminates the state and local income tax deduction, a deduction almost one third of people living in my district use. Without this deduction, they’d be double taxed: once on a state and local level, and again by the federal government. “The Republican bill cuts the mortgage interest deduction for new home owners in half, and similarly harms millions of Americans saddled with student loan debt by eliminating the student loan interest deduction. Under this bill, people trying to start a family will see the adoption tax credit disappear, and although the Republicans say that their plan will increase the Child Tax Credit, what they don’t tell you is that many low-income families will be excluded. If the elimination of these vital tax benefits on which millions now depend weren’t enough, the Republicans literally add insult to injury, by eliminating the medical expense deduction which helps covers preventive care, prescription costs, and long-term care for chronically-ill Americans. “Furthermore, the Republican bill cuts the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 20 percent, and eliminates the alternative minimum tax (AMT), a part of the tax code that only benefits the wealthiest Americans. The Republican bill also completely phases out the estate tax, which would provide Trump and all of his cabinet members combined an extra $3.5 billion if their proposal is enacted. “Republicans claim their tax bill will spur economic growth, but all it really does is help people like Donald Trump, his cabinet and wealthy Republican donors keep money in their pockets.” ###
10.27.2017	Rep. Waters Demands the Preservation of the State and Local Income Tax Deduction (SALT) WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement demanding that the state and local income tax deduction remain intact: “Republicans have proposed a tax plan that is nothing more than an attempt to steal from working families to give tax cuts to the rich. In their plan, Republicans are considering eliminating the state and local income tax deduction (SALT). SALT allows taxpayers to deduct state and local taxes from their federal tax returns, and is directly responsible for hundreds of billions of dollars deservedly going straight into the pockets of hard-working Americans. Eliminating, or altering, SALT would increase taxes on tens of millions of people across the country. That would affect millions of people in California alone, and thousands of families in the 43rd district. This is wholly unacceptable. “Almost half of American families with a household income between $50,000 and $75,000 use the deduction. That amounts to 7.6 million households. In California, 34% of people claim the deduction, including 29% of tax filers in my district, California’s 43rd. Of the people who claim the deduction in the 43rd district, the average amount deducted is $3,000 per person. I will not stand by while Donald Trump and Republicans take millions of dollars away from the hard working people in the 43rd district, only to send it over to Wall Street and billionaire Republican donors. For the good of the hard-working families in my district and across the country, SALT must remain untouched. “Instead of taking money from working families to pay for tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires, we should be working on a tax plan that supports middle income families and creates jobs. The SALT deduction is vital to the livelihood of working Americans, and I vehemently oppose any attempt to weaken it.” ###
10.26.2017	Rep. Waters Demands Twitter Disclose Kremlin-linked User Accounts that Targeted her District WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement and attached letter to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey in response to a report from BuzzFeed News and Media Matters revealing that she and her congressional district were targeted by at least one Twitter account that was linked to a Russian firm tied to the Kremlin. In her letter to Twitter’s CEO, Congresswoman Waters requested that the company disclose all of the accounts linked to Russian or Kremlin-linked firms that targeted her during the 2016 election and throughout this year until their suspension. “While I have never publicly discussed it before today, I have been aware for some time that I was targeted by Russian operatives whose interests were aligned with Donald Trump. For as long as I have been vocal about Trump’s allies, whom I have called the “Kremlin Klan” – those former and current officials connected to Trump with ties to the Kremlin, Russian oil and gas interests, and pro-Russian operatives in Ukraine – I have often noticed that every time I tweeted about Trump and Russia, dozens of strange accounts would immediately tweet various lies and falsehoods that fringe alt-right websites would subsequently use as a basis to write fake news stories. Since much of the public discussion of Russia’s interference in our democratic process thus far has focused on Russia’s influence in the presidential election, I think it is important for the American people and my colleagues in Congress to understand that Members of Congress and their efforts to communicate with their constituents may also be vulnerable to this type of foreign disruption. “According to BuzzFeed’s reporting, one the Russian accounts, @TEN_GOP, which masqueraded as the Twitter account for the Tennessee Republican Party, was allowed to tweet many lies about me and my district for months and was particularly active during one of my town hall meetings earlier this year. It is most disturbing to me that this Russian account pushed an “Impeach Maxine Waters” hashtag that ultimately trended on Twitter during that afternoon. The hashtag appeared to be coordinated with large, elaborate posters that were posted outside the town hall venue by disrupters, who were probably given the financial resources and assistance necessary to carry out their campaign of disruption. It is for this reason that I am now calling upon Twitter to provide detailed information regarding all Russian-linked accounts that targeted me and my congressional district. “A free-flowing political discourse is the bedrock of American democracy, but foreign propaganda disguised as discourse has the potential to crack that bedrock. Full and open transparency on the part of social media companies like Twitter can help to combat this foreign threat. I therefore urge Twitter and other social media companies to provide that transparency to the American people.” ###
10.25.2017	Rep. Waters Slams Donald Trump’s Failure to Enforce Sanctions on Russia WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Donald Trump’s failure to take action to enforce sanctions on Russia prior to the October 1st deadline required by the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (H.R. 3364; Public Law No: 115-44): “Donald Trump’s apparent refusal to enforce new sanctions against Russia in a timely manner is disgraceful. Congress passed legislation mandating new sanctions in response to Russia’s interference in our nation’s 2016 elections. The president then signed the sanctions legislation into law only after it became clear that Congress could override his veto. Despite the president’s signature, the Trump administration has yet to issue implementation regulations as required by the law. The administration had until October 1st to do so. “It should surprise no one that Donald Trump would not want to enforce penalties against Russia when he has refused to condemn or criticize Russia’s actions, despite clear evidence of Russian interference in United States elections. Russia, under its president, Vladimir Putin, is one of the United States’ most aggressive adversaries. Thanks to Donald Trump Jr.’s emails, we already know that Trump Jr., former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, and Trump’s son-in-law and current White House advisor Jared Kushner were all made aware of Russia’s support for Donald Trump’s candidacy and were anxious to meet with representatives of the Russian government in order to receive damaging information about their political opponent. “I have long maintained that I believe this president and individuals affiliated with his campaign colluded with the Kremlin to undermine the 2016 elections and ensure Donald Trump’s victory. I have also said that everything that we have learned about Trump’s former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, his attorney Michael Cohen, and his business associate Felix Sater indicates that they may have been involved in an effort to negotiate a backroom deal to lift the U.S. sanctions that had been imposed on Russia prior to Trump’s election. “Donald Trump has indicated his desire to lift those sanctions on several occasions. This would, of course, result in billions of dollars in profits for both Russia and ExxonMobil – a company that negotiated a deal with the Kremlin to drill in the Artic under its then-CEO and now-Secretary of State Rex Tillerson. The fact that Trump has, so far, refused to enforce the new sanctions that Congress imposed on Russia for its attack on our democracy raises many more questions that we can only hope Special Counsel Robert Mueller will resolve as part of his ongoing Trump-Russia investigation. “Ultimately, Congress and the Republican leadership, in particular, must be prepared to act if Donald Trump continues stonewalling or refusing to implement the new sanctions, which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support.” ###
10.13.2017	Rep. Waters Slams Donald Trump’s Thinly Veiled Attempts to Sabotage the Affordable Care Act His goal is to sabotage our nation’s health care system just because a major health reform law has his predecessor’s name on it. WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement on Donald Trump’s decision to eliminate the federal cost-sharing subsidies that help pay out-of-pocket costs for middle- and low- income families: “I am utterly disgusted by Donald Trump’s decision to deliberately sabotage the Affordable Care Act and leave the American people to suffer through the wreckage. First, Donald Trump signed a foolhardy executive order that allows insurance companies to bypass federal and state laws in order to sell cheap, skimpy health plans. Just a few hours later, Donald Trump piled on by announcing that his administration will eliminate the cost-sharing subsidies that help pay out-of-pocket costs for working families. These vindictive, spiteful and cruel decisions will inevitably jeopardize the stability of our nation‘s health care system, leaving many low- and middle-income Americans unable to afford health care and causing premiums to soar for everyone. “Trump revealed his true intentions in a tweet this morning when he boasted that ‘Obamacare is imploding’ and said Democrats should call him to fix the mess he has now created. His goal is to sabotage our nation’s health care system just because a major health reform law has his predecessor’s name on it. “Infuriating as his actions may be, none of this should come as a surprise. This president lied his way into the White House with a series of empty promises to ‘Repeal Obamacare on Day 1’, ‘Drain the Swamp’, and ‘Build a Wall’. However, eight months into office he has proven to be nothing more than a failure and an embarrassment to the Office of the Presidency. “If Donald Trump believes that the American people can’t see through his thinly veiled attempts to rob millions of Americans of their health care – particularly seniors, disabled Americans, children, veterans, and people with pre-existing conditions— for his own selfish political gain, he is sadly mistaken. “In spite of the lack of leadership by this president and Congressional Republicans, who continue to enable his reckless behavior, I continue to stand with my fellow Democrats who are fighting to ensure that the American people have access to the quality and affordable health care they deserve.” ###
10.13.2017	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on Post-Hurricane Recovery Efforts in the U.S. Virgin Islands WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the Congressional Caribbean Caucus, released the following statement today regarding the status of the post-hurricane recovery efforts in the U.S. Virgin Islands: “The U.S. Virgin Islands were devastated by two major hurricanes in a row. Most of the territory is still without power, and hospitals have been forced to evacuate patients to the U.S. mainland.[1] Cellphone towers and telephone poles were knocked down, making it difficult for relief organizations to operate.[2] It will cost an estimated $200 million just to rebuild the electrical grid, and it was reported that 70% of the buildings in St. Croix alone were damaged.[3] “As FEMA continues to do their assessments of the damage in the Virgin Islands as well as other states and territories ravaged by this year’s storms, Congress needs to stay vigilant in fully understanding the scope of the damage and continuing to provide enough funding not just for emergency relief, but also long term recovery efforts. The supplemental appropriations bill the House passed yesterday focuses on emergency relief, and we no doubt need to pass future supplemental bills that focus on long term recovery, including additional CDBG-Disaster Recovery funding. As we consider future disaster packages, I call on my colleagues in Congress to ensure robust CDBG-Disaster Recovery funding necessary to address 100% of the vast unmet needs we are expecting, including in the Virgin Islands. It is going to be a long road to full recovery for the Virgin Islands and other communities hit by these storms, and we stand firmly by everyone affected now and commit to standing with them in the months to come as we begin the difficult road to recovery. “Another limitation of the supplemental appropriations bill is that it provides only $1 billion in additional Medicaid funding for Puerto Rico and about $30 million for the U.S. Virgin Islands, while continuing to impose a 45% local match on both territories, a completely unrealistic expectation in the aftermath of a natural disaster. Congress should waive local match requirements and pay 100% of the Medicaid expenses of people on these islands, just as Congress did for the survivors of Hurricane Katrina twelve years ago. “We can, and we must, do better for our citizens in the face of disaster. This country has the capability to respond when its citizens are in need, and we should be committed to doing so in all parts of our great nation.” ### [1] https://www.pri.org/stories/2017-10-09/us-virgin-islands-still-need-help-after-suffering-two-hurricanes [2] https://www.pri.org/stories/2017-10-09/us-virgin-islands-still-need-help-after-suffering-two-hurricanes [3] http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/09/25/virgin-islands-bracing-for-long-recovery-after-one-two-punch-from-irma-maria.html
10.12.2017	Congresswoman Waters Condemns Donald Trump’s Efforts to Destroy the American Health Care System WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after Donald Trump signed an executive order undermining the Affordable Care Act (ACA): “I am deeply disturbed, but not surprised, that Donald Trump, once again, has chosen to place the American people at risk with a reckless, ill-conceived, and shortsighted executive order that undermines the Affordable Care Act. “Over the past eight months, this president and his party have repeatedly threatened the health coverage of millions of Americans instead of working to develop and pass legislation that would actually strengthen our nation’s health care system. Now, in an act of desperation, as the clock runs out on his first year in office, Donald Trump has signed an executive order that could upend our health care system, jeopardize health insurance markets, and increase costs for millions of Americans, particularly those with pre-existing conditions. “Don’t be fooled. Despite what he claims, this president does not have the best interests of working people or small businesses at heart. The purpose of Donald Trump’s executive order is clear: to dismantle the Affordable Care Act at any cost – even if that means sabotaging our entire health care system and placing our economy at risk. Donald Trump and his Republican allies on Capitol Hill have no real plans to provide all Americans – including working families, disabled Americans, children, veterans, seniors, and people with pre-existing conditions – the quality and affordable health care they deserve. “I strongly condemn Donald Trump’s executive order, and I once again urge Republicans in Congress to begin working with Democrats to develop bipartisan legislation that will strengthen, not undermine, our nation’s health care system.” ###
10.06.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE October 6, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters on Trump Attacking Women (in More Ways than One) WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after the announcement that President Trump has restricted women’s access to birth control. “Donald Trump showed us who he really is during the campaign when he admitted to grabbing women by their private parts, so today’s attack by the Trump administration on women’s health should come as no surprise. The rule, issued today, allows employers—even ones with no religious affiliation— to deny their employees birth control coverage as previously required by the Affordable Care Act. This is an attack on all of the 62 million women nationwide that rely on the Affordable Care Act’s birth control coverage. “The Trump administration’s new rule is steeped in hypocrisy. For a president who claims to want to reduce the number of abortions and unintended pregnancies nationwide, he has issued a rule that will dramatically increase both. Birth control should not be controversial. It allows families to plan when and where they have children, and 9 in 10 women will use a form of it in their lifetime. Furthermore, this rule targets low-income communities in particular: 1 in 3 women struggled to afford birth control before the Affordable Care Act. Yet despite the widespread need and support for birth control coverage, Trump saw a need to attack it anyway. This is part of Trump’s Handmaid’s Tale agenda, and I will not rest until this agenda is defeated. “Trump claims this rule protects religious freedom, but religious organizations were already exempt from directly providing their employees birth control. Don’t be fooled, this rule is not about protecting religious liberties. This rule is about Trump expanding the scope of Trumpian hypocrisy, and continuing his longstanding attack on women.” ###
10.02.2017	Postal Service Accepts Requests from Waters and Cummings to Issue New Alzheimer’s Awareness Stamp Stamp Will Raise Funds for Research and Treatment of Disease Washington, D.C.—Today, in response to requests from Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, and Rep. Elijah E. Cummings (D-MD), the Ranking Member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the Postal Service announced that it is issuing a new stamp to promote Alzheimer’s awareness and support research on the disease. “Alzheimer’s is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and there is no effective treatment, no means of prevention, and no method for slowing its progression,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I congratulate the Postal Service for issuing a semipostal stamp to raise funds for this tragic disease.” “Millions of American families have been and will be affected by Alzheimer’s disease,” Ranking Member Cummings said. “This stamp will help raise funds to support critical research on the causes and treatments for this debilitating disease. I applaud the Postal Service for heeding our call, and I thank Dan Gasby and his wife, B Smith, for working so tirelessly to help make this stamp a reality and to advance the research efforts so critical to the millions of American families who live with the agony of this disease.” The price of the new Alzheimer’s Semipostal Stamp will be 60 cents, about 10 cents more than a normal first class stamp, and proceeds will go to the Department of Health and Human Services to support research and treatment for the disease. Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 2973) on June 21, 2017, to require the Postal Service to issue a semipostal stamp promoting Alzheimer’s awareness and research. The bill is supported by more than 100 Members of Congress from both political parties. Congress gave the Postal Service discretionary authority to issue semipostal stamps at higher prices to allow the public to donate to worthwhile causes, but the Postal Service issued regulations in 2002 that effectively prohibited the issuance of new stamps while the Breast Cancer Research stamp was sold. Sales of that stamp have raised millions of dollars for breast cancer research. On July 1, 2016, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter urging the Postal Service to issue an Alzheimer’s stamp as the first stamp under its discretionary authority. This letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 41 Members under the leadership of Rep. Waters; Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease; and Task Force Member John Garamendi (D-CA). On February 20, 2015, Ranking Member Cummings wrote a letter along with then-Chairman Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) urging the Postal Service to use its existing statutory authority to issue an Alzheimer’s stamp, while continuing to offer the Breast Cancer Research stamp. The Alzheimer’s stamp is the first stamp issued under the Postal Service’s new discretionary program. ###
10.02.2017	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on Las Vegas Shooting WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released a statement following the tragic shooting near the Mandalay Bay Casino in Las Vegas that claimed at least 59 innocent lives and injured more than 500 people: “Like so many across the country, I woke up this morning to the horrific news that our nation had endured yet another act of senseless violence, resulting in the loss of at least 59 innocent lives and leaving more than 500 people injured. This shooting is a painful reminder of just how far we must go to root out acts of mass violence in our country. My thoughts and prayers are with the victims and their families, and our resolve as a country must be to stand together in unity and love during such a difficult time. “There are so many questions surrounding this latest mass shooting, which now has the unfortunate distinction of being the deadliest in modern U.S. history, surpassing the devastating Sandy Hook, Mother Emanuel Church, and Pulse Nightclub massacres. We are still learning more facts about this shooter and his motivations, however, we cannot ignore how deeply disturbing it is to learn that an individual with a capacity for extreme violence was able to gain access to a large number of deadly weapons. When will our society gain the strength and courage to finally face up to the constant threat and danger of guns? “My heart aches for those who were lost and wounded, their loved ones, the citizens of Las Vegas, and the entire nation as we pull together once again to overcome fear with strength, pride, and love in the face of unconscionable violence.” ###
09.29.2017	Congresswoman Waters Slams Trump Administration for Not Doing More for Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following statement on the Trump Administration’s response in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands to the damage caused by Hurricane Maria: “The Trump Administration’s response to the devastation of Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands has been woefully inadequate. The president should know that just because those islands are separated from the U.S. mainland doesn’t mean that they are not a part of the United States of America. We can, and we must, do better for our citizens in the face of disaster. At a time when there is such desperation, and at a time when people remain in danger, this president was so inhumane as to blame Puerto Rico for its ‘deep trouble,’ citing its debt and infrastructure. Now is not the time to lay blame. Now is the time to focus on the lives of our people and to do everything that we can to meet their needs. “My thoughts and prayers are with everyone who has been affected by all of the recent storms—Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. The deaths, the injuries, and the damage in Texas, Florida, and other nearby states have been tragic. And today, in Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and other areas of the Caribbean, the devastation is nothing short of catastrophic. “According to recent reports, 16 people were killed in Puerto Rico, and one was killed in the U.S. Virgin Islands.[1] It has been a week since the storm, and almost all of Puerto Rico is still without power. That includes 58 of the island’s 69 hospitals, which need to be operational in order to treat the sick and the injured. Roughly 1.5 million people are without clean drinking water,[2] and there are reports of food and fuel shortages. There are hot and muggy conditions with no air conditioning and no way to refrigerate food, medicine, and supplies. This is a particular concern for Puerto Rico’s most vulnerable residents, like the sick and the elderly. For instance, we are hearing stories of diabetics who are unable to refrigerate or get access to insulin, and we are hearing reports of bedridden seniors in remote parts of the island who cannot walk around in search of food, water, and other assistance. In the U.S. Virgin Islands, it will cost an estimated $200 million just to rebuild the electrical grid, and it is reported that 70 percent of the buildings in St. Croix alone are damaged.[3] St. Thomas and St. John were likewise devastated. Furthermore, in the U.S. Virgin Islands, there are reports of piles of debris and rotting garbage, homes torn from their foundations, and health clinics running out of supplies.[4] If we don’t act soon, the public health and humanitarian crisis is just going to get worse. “Despite the undeniable devastation and horrific conditions in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands in the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, the Trump administration has responded more slowly and committed fewer resources than it did in Texas and Florida in response to Hurricanes Harvey and Irma.[5] Donald Trump’s excuse that responding is more difficult because of geography just doesn’t fly.[6] Until yesterday, the Trump administration had refused to waive shipping restrictions under the Jones Act to allow much needed supplies to be transported to Puerto Rico for the relief efforts even though the Department of Homeland Security waived those same restrictions following Hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Yesterday’s decision to waive those restrictions is a little late. The response to this crisis needs to pick up the pace. “This country has the capability to respond when its citizens are in need, and we should be committed to doing so in all parts of our great nation. Perhaps Donald Trump should spend less time concerning himself with preventing NFL players from expressing their first amendment rights, and spend more time thinking about how to help struggling Americans who survived a natural disaster and are desperate for assistance.” ### [1] http://www.cnn.com/2017/09/27/us/puerto-rico-hurricane-maria/index.html [2] http://thehill.com/policy/energy-environment/352529-pentagon-more-than-80-percent-of-puerto-ricos-electric-system [3] http://www.foxnews.com/us/2017/09/25/virgin-islands-bracing-for-long-recovery-after-one-two-punch-from-irma-maria.html [4] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/09/27/us/hurricane-maria-virgin-islands.html [5] http://www.cnn.com/2017/09/26/us/response-harvey-irma-maria/index.html [6] http://www.cnn.com/2017/09/26/us/response-harvey-irma-maria/index.html
09.26.2017	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on Graham-Cassidy Bill Being Pulled from Senate Floor WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement after Senate Republicans said they will not bring their latest version of Trumpcare, the Graham-Cassidy bill, to the Senate floor: “I am so pleased to learn that the efforts of Senate Republican leaders to destroy the nation’s health care system as we know it and rob millions of Americans of their health insurance have failed once again. I commend the few courageous Republican Senators who listened to their constituents and announced their opposition to this outrageous bill. “The Graham-Cassidy bill is just the latest in a string of disastrous Trumpcare bills, proving that Donald Trump and his Republican allies on Capitol Hill have no real plans to provide all Americans – including working families, disabled Americans, children, veterans, seniors, and people with pre-existing conditions – quality and affordable health care. “We must fight to maintain and improve Obamacare. It is the only way to ensure quality health care for the American people. Democrats have said repeatedly that Obamacare is not perfect and we are willing to work together with our Republican colleagues to improve the law. Let us hope the Republicans will finally come to their senses so we can pass bipartisan legislation to provide the very best health care that the American people deserve.” ###
09.25.2017	Congresswoman Waters: The Latest Version of Trumpcare is Truly Catastrophic! WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell’s plans to pass a bill to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act, known as the Graham-Cassidy bill: “I am appalled that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is forcing Senators to vote on yet another partisan Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care. Nevertheless, I am encouraged by the fact that several Senate Republicans are listening to their constituents and refusing to commit to support the Graham-Cassidy bill, an outrageous Trumpcare bill that would take health coverage away from millions of Americans and recklessly dismantle our nation’s health system. “Republicans’ latest version of Trumpcare is truly catastrophic. It would callously destroy protections for people with pre-existing conditions, eliminate essential health benefits, and reinstate the dreaded lifetime and annual limits on care. “While Mitch McConnell is not even planning to wait for an analysis by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, an independent report indicates that this Trumpcare bill would cause 32 million people to lose their health insurance over the next ten years, including more than 4.5 million people in California.[1] Furthermore, the bill would cut the combined federal funding for Medicaid and the health insurance marketplaces by $239 billion during the period between 2020 and 2026 and slash funding for Medicaid and the health insurance marketplaces by almost $300 billion in 2027 alone.[2] “It is not the least bit surprising that so many Americans are terrified by Trumpcare. This bill would have a devastating impact upon working families, disabled Americans, children, veterans, seniors, and people with pre-existing conditions throughout the United States. “I call upon my Republican colleagues in both the Senate and the House to stop trying to rob American families of their health coverage and start working with Democrats to pass bipartisan legislation that will give the American people the quality, affordable health care they deserve.” ### [1] https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/healthcare/news/2017/09/20/439277/coverage-losses-state-graham-cassidy-bill-repeal-aca/ [2] https://www.cbpp.org/sites/default/files/atoms/files/9-15-17health.pdf
09.11.2017	Congresswoman Waters Fights for LA County Infrastructure Funding in House Spending Package Offers Amendments to Increase Transportation Funding, which Republicans Refused to Make in Order WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, announced her opposition to H.R. 3354 – the House Republicans’ spending package of 8 appropriations bills that is being considered on the House floor this week – and condemned Republican leaders for refusing to allow the House to consider her amendments to restore federal funding for transportation infrastructure in Los Angeles County and other communities across the country. “I strongly oppose H.R. 3354, a bill that is woefully insufficient to meet our nation’s infrastructure needs,” said Congresswoman Waters. “My amendments to the House Republicans’ spending bill would have restored critical funding for transportation infrastructure and created jobs in cities like Los Angeles, Inglewood, Torrance, and Gardena. I am deeply dismayed that Republican leaders refused to consider my amendments, and instead chose to prioritize partisan politics over the needs of the American people.” Congresswoman Waters’ amendments would have restored funding for the popular “TIGER” program, which creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure and which the House Republicans eliminated from their spending bill. When the House reconvened on the evening of Tuesday, September 5th, Congresswoman Waters urged the Rules Committee to allow her to offer the amendments on the House floor,[1] but the Republican-dominated Rules Committee refused to make them in order. The Congresswoman’s first amendment provides $550 million for TIGER in fiscal year 2018, which is the same as the amount provided by the Senate in its spending bill. The Congresswoman’s second amendment provides $7.5 billion for TIGER in order to jump start infrastructure investments and create jobs nationwide. The amendments were cosponsored by Reps. André Carson (D-IN), Elizabeth H. Esty (D-CT), Colleen Hanabusa (D-HI), Mark Pocan (D-WI), and Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ).[2] “Previous TIGER grants helped the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro) accelerate the construction of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor -- a light rail project that will improve transportation service in the cities of Los Angeles and Inglewood in my district,” said Congresswoman Waters. “With sufficient funding, TIGER could also improve local highways, reduce traffic congestion, and assist other transit agencies, such as Torrance Transit and the City of Gardena’s GTrans system in my congressional district.” The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) gave the infrastructure of the United States an overall grade of “D+” in 2017 and estimated that the United States will need to invest $4.59 trillion by 2025 in order to improve the condition of the nation’s infrastructure and bring it to a state of good repair.[3] ASCE assigned a “D” grade to the nation’s roads, a “C+” grade to bridges, and a “D-” grade to transit systems and estimated that the United States will need to invest $2.04 trillion by 2025 to bring the nation’s surface transportation infrastructure to a state of good repair.[4] “A safe, efficient, modern, and accessible transportation system is vital for a growing economy,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to insist upon robust funding for TIGER and reject the House Republicans’ misguided attempt to eliminate this important program.” Earlier this year, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging them to provide an appropriation of $1.25 billion for the TIGER program in fiscal year 2018, in order to expand job creation and repair critical transportation infrastructure nationwide. That letter was led by Congresswoman Waters and signed by 140 Members of Congress. ### [1] Rules Committee Hearing, 9/5/17, https://rules.house.gov/video/rules-committee-hearing-hr-3354, at approximately 3:22. [2] https://rules.house.gov/bill/115/hr-3354#rule-information, Division H, Amendments #7 and 8. [3] ASCE Report Card, Executive Summary, p. 2, 5, https://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/2017-IRC-Executive-Summary-FINAL-FINAL.pdf. [4]ASCE Report Card, Executive Summary, p. 3, 5, https://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/04/2017-IRC-Executive-Summary-FINAL-FINAL.pdf.
09.11.2017	Congressman Waters Fights to Protect Health Services for Women, Minorities, and Young People in House Spending Package Offers Amendments to Restore Funds for HIV/AIDS, Family Planning, and Teen Pregnancy Prevention, which Republicans Refused to Make in Order WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, announced her opposition to H.R. 3354 – the House Republicans’ spending package of 8 appropriations bills that is being considered on the House floor this week – and condemned Republican leaders for refusing to allow the House to consider her three amendments to restore funding for HIV/AIDS, family planning, and teen pregnancy prevention in fiscal year 2018. “My amendments to the House Republicans’ spending bill would have restored critical funding for HIV/AIDS, family planning, and teen pregnancy prevention services in communities across the United States,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I am deeply disappointed that Republican leaders refused to consider my amendments, and instead put partisan politics over the needs of women, minorities, and young people.” Congresswoman Waters’ amendments would have restored funding for three popular health programs, which target disadvantaged communities and which the House Republicans eliminated from their spending bill. During a hearing on Wednesday, September 6th, Congresswoman Waters urged the Rules Committee to allow her to offer the amendments on the House floor, but the Republican-dominated Rules Committee refused to make them in order. “My first amendment would have restored funding for a key component of the Minority AIDS Initiative, known as the Secretary’s Fund,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The Minority AIDS Initiative directs HIV/AIDS prevention, screening, and treatment funds to minority communities, which continue to be severely and disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. I established this important initiative in 1998, working with the Clinton Administration and my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus.” Minorities represent the majority of new HIV infections, the majority of people living with HIV/AIDS, and the majority of deaths among people with HIV/AIDS. African Americans account for 44% of new HIV infections, and Latinos account for 24%. Asian Americans account for an additional 2% of new infections. The rate of new infections among African Americans is about 8 times that of whites, and the rate among Latinos is about 3 times that of whites. The Congresswoman’s amendment would have provided $53.9 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative Secretary’s Fund. “My second amendment would have restored funding for the Title X Family Planning Program,” said Congresswoman Waters. “This critical funding allows Title X health centers to continue providing preventive health and family planning services to millions of low-income American women and families.” The Title X Family Planning Program enables health centers to provide basic primary health care, family planning services, and preventive health services, such as cancer screenings and testing and treatment for sexually transmitted diseases, for more than 4 million low-income women and men each year. Title X supports nearly 4,000 health providers, from independent clinics to public health departments. The Congresswoman’s amendment would have provided $286 million for Title X. “Finally, I offered an amendment to restore funding for the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, which provides vital information about pregnancy prevention, contraception, and sexually transmitted diseases to more than one million young people” said Congresswoman Waters. The Congresswoman’s amendment would have provided $108 million for the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program. “I urge my colleagues in the Senate to insist upon robust funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative, the Title X Family Planning Program, and the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Program, and reject the House Republicans’ misguided attempt to eliminate these essential programs,” said Congresswoman Waters. ###
09.05.2017	Rep. Waters to DACA Recipients: We will Fight this Together​ WASHINGTON — Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after it was announced that President Trump will end DACA in six months: “I am deeply disturbed by Donald Trump’s decision to put an expiration date on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program (DACA). These DACA recipients came to America as children, innocent of any wrongdoing. For many, this is the only country that they know. They registered with the government; they underwent background checks; they go to school here; they live in our communities; and they pay taxes. For all 800,000 of them, the United States is their home. “Donald Trump has demonstrated again and again, on an almost daily basis, an extreme lack of empathy and a disregard for the plight of others. In phasing out DACA, he revealed that he not only lacks empathy, but that he’s spineless too. For a man, who has so often thrown around the threat of lawsuits for the slightest perceived grievance, to now phase out DACA because he’s scared of a legal threat from the Texas Attorney General shows that Trump – the bully – will back down from a fight, even when that fight affects hundreds of thousands of people. Trump routinely deflects and abdicates his presidential responsibilities, and his DACA decision is yet another example. He is more abdicator–in-chief than commander, and America again must look elsewhere for leadership. “I will fight every day for those Americans affected by Trump’s selfish, politically motivated and reprehensible actions. To the 800,000 DACA recipients nationwide that love the United States and consider it home, to the more than 200,000 DACA recipients living in California[1] and to the almost 50,000 school-age children in Los Angeles County that will become eligible for DACA in future years,[2] I extend my hand to you, and I want you to know that we will fight this, together.” ### [1] http://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2017/09/01/unauthorized-immigrants-covered-by-daca-face-uncertain-future/ [2] http://www.migrationpolicy.org/news/county-level-view-daca-population-finds-surprising-amount-ethnic-enrollment-diversity
08.20.2017	Congresswoman Waters Mourns the Passing of Comedic Icon and Activist Dick Gregory LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon the passing of Dick Gregory: “Today, I join the world in mourning the passing of my dear friend, Dick Gregory, whom I truly admired and loved. I consider Dick to be one of the most brilliant and transformative comedians the world has ever seen. Dick was unafraid to confront racism and bigotry in his performances which helped to shine a light on the injustices African Americans faced in this country, particularly in the Jim Crow South, and he is revered for breaking down barriers that prevented African American comedians from entertaining all white audiences, paving the way for African American comics today. “Beyond his genius on stage, Dick was a champion for equality, often risking his own career, health, freedom, and, at times, his life in order to fight injustice and oppression. He was a prominent figure during the Civil Rights Movement, who despite his own fame, would cancel shows and risk millions of dollars to join marches, sit-ins, and other peaceful demonstrations across the country with other leaders like Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Whitney M. Young, Jr., and Rev. Jesse Jackson. However, Dick’s activism was not limited to the Civil Rights era; he was a lifelong activist, who also fought against apartheid in South Africa, the Vietnam War, police brutality, misogyny, and abuses against Native Americans. Furthermore, his intellectual curiosity inspired him to write numerous books and to vigorously research health and nutrition, which he and I spent countless hours discussing. “Most importantly, however, I knew Dick to be a family man who was a devoted husband to his wife of more than fifty years, Mrs. Lillian Gregory, and a loving father to his surviving 10 children whom he encouraged and supported in their individual lives and careers. “Dick will forever be remembered by fans all over the world for his talent, intellect, and unwavering commitment to justice. However, to me he was more than a world renown comedian and activist – he was my brother. I am so grateful for all of the precious memories that we have shared over the past years, especially a few months ago when I joined him in our hometown of St. Louis, Missouri, where at 84 years of age, he captivated a packed audience with his one of a kind wit, charm, and humor. Dick will certainly be missed, and my thoughts and prayers are with his family and loved ones during this rough time.” ###
08.17.2017	Congresswoman Waters Applauds Executives for Opposition to Trump LOS ANGELES -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, who has often been a vocal critic of large corporations, made an unusual move to applaud the executives of several of America’s leading businesses and organizations following their resignation from Donald Trump’s White House Manufacturing Council. “I want to thank you for the leadership you displayed in your decision to speak out in opposition to President Donald Trump’s response to the violent Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia by withdrawing from the White House Manufacturing Council.” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “It is not beyond any stretch of the imagination that this White House might use your withdrawal as a reason to ignore your concerns, disregard your policy agenda, or treat your [business/organization] unfavorably. Despite that risk, you demonstrated tremendous courage by placing principles first. For that, I applaud you.” Congresswoman Waters decided to thank the executives for demonstrating a commitment to fairness, justice, and the values that the majority of Americans hold most dear in light of President Donald Trump’s refusal to unequivocally condemn the displays of hatred, bigotry and violence by white supremacists, neo-Nazis, Ku Klux Klan (KKK) members, and other white nationalist groups during the Charlottesville, Virginia Unite the Right rally. The executives include Merck CEO Kenneth Frazier; Under Armour CEO Kevin Plank; Intel CEO Brian Krzanich; Alliance for American Manufacturing President Scott Paul; AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka and Thea Lee; 3M CEO Inge Thulin; Campbell Soup CEO Denise Morrison; and, General Electric Chairman Jeff Immelt. The full text of the letter is below. Dear [Mr. Frazier; Mr. Plank; Mr. Krzanich; Mr. Paul; Mr. Trumka; Ms. Lee; Mr. Thulin; Ms. Morrison; and, Mr. Immelt], I want to thank you for the leadership you displayed in your decision to speak out in opposition to President Donald Trump’s response to the violent Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia by withdrawing from the White House Manufacturing Council. It is not beyond any stretch of the imagination that this White House might use your withdrawal as a reason to ignore your concerns, disregard your policy agenda, or treat your [business/organization] unfavorably. Despite that risk, you demonstrated tremendous courage by placing principles first. For that, I applaud you. Like so many Americans across the country, I am outraged by the display of hatred, bigotry and violence by white supremacists, neo-Nazis, Ku Klux Klan (KKK) members, and other alt-right white nationalist groups. I, like so many, mourn the murder of Heather Heyer and am deeply saddened by the injuries to many other counter-protesters, as well as the tragic deaths of two Virginia State Police troopers, Lt. H. Jay Cullen and Berke M. M. Bates, who were responding to the unrest. Though nothing could have fully eased our nation’s pain for the losses endured this past weekend, strong condemnation by the president for the hate groups responsible would have calmed the country as we collectively mourn. Instead, President Trump exacerbated tensions with his disturbing comments in which he blamed the victims for the violence perpetrated against them by hate groups, saying “there is blame on both sides.” He went further, defending the neo-Nazis and white supremacists by saying there were “very fine people on both sides.” The president fails to recognize that anyone who marches with the KKK is dangerous and represents a threat to everything for which this democracy stands. The views expressed by President Trump don’t represent American values and are harmful to the nation. Your decision to withdraw from the White House Manufacturing Council demonstrates a commitment to fairness, justice, and the values that the majority of Americans hold most dear. Thank you for your leadership and courage in standing up for those values. It is only by standing up that we can put the scourges of racism, anti-Semitism, hatred and bigotry. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
08.10.2017	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on the Need for a Coherent Strategy Based on Diplomacy in Responding to North Korea WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, issued a statement after President Trump threatened “fire and fury” against North Korea and North Korea responded with threats against Guam. Her statement follows: “Donald Trump’s recent threats against North Korea are dangerous. The president of the United States should be providing informed, steady leadership, which is based on careful analysis by experienced advisors and which reassures the American people and our allies, instead of making reckless threats that significantly escalate the situation. A responsible policy towards North Korea must be based on diplomacy, caution and restraint, and must be developed in consultation with our allies in the region, including South Korea and Japan. “I am also concerned about the large number of vacancies among senior level positions at the State Department. We don’t even have an ambassador to South Korea. The problem is made worse by the Trump administration’s budget proposal, which would cut funding for diplomacy and foreign aid by more than 30 percent. A strong State Department, supported by robust funding and staffed with experienced diplomats and expert policy analysts, is critical for the development of coherent strategies to respond to international crises like the current standoff with North Korea. “The Trump administration must immediately develop a coherent policy towards North Korea. That policy should be based on diplomacy, informed by experienced diplomats and members of the intelligence community, and coordinated with our allies in the region. It is critical that the administration take appropriate action to avoid conflict, exercise common sense, and act in the best interests of the United States.” ###
07.31.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 31, 2017 Congresswoman Waters Announces $20 Million Grant for Residential Noise Mitigation in the City of Inglewood Inglewood, CA – Today, Congress Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) announced that the United States Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) awarded a $20 million grant to the City of Inglewood for residential noise mitigation. The grant will provide assistance to approximately 1,750 Inglewood residents who are impacted by the noise from airplanes flying in and out of the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). “I am pleased to announce that the FAA has awarded a $20 million grant to the City of Inglewood for residential noise mitigation,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I congratulate the City of Inglewood upon being awarded this grant, which will help approximately 1,750 Inglewood residents mitigate the impact of airport noise in their homes. Although Inglewood has previously received noise mitigation funds, not all residents have been covered and many have been waiting for years for soundproofing for their homes.” The FAA grant will extend funding for Inglewood’s Residential Sound Insulation Program. Inglewood residents who wish to find out if they qualify for residential noise mitigation can contact Ms. Bettye Griffith, Director of the City of Inglewood’s Residential Sound Installation Program, who can be reached by phone at (310) 412-5289. “For many years, I have been concerned about airport noise and its impact upon the individuals and families who live, work and go to school near LAX, and I have worked with the FAA, LAX, and local officials to address the problem,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Noise from planes landing at and departing from LAX is very disruptive for many families in these communities. This grant will bring relief to families in Inglewood who have to live with airport noise every day.” ###
07.28.2017	Congresswoman Waters Congratulates the Three Republican Senators who Joined Democrats to Defeat Trumpcare WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement after three Republican Senators joined all Senate Democrats early this morning to vote down the “skinny bill” to repeal the Affordable Care Act, by a vote of 49-51: “I congratulate the three courageous Republicans in the United States Senate who joined together with all Senate Democrats to vote down an effort to repeal the Affordable Care Act. The final bill that Senate Republican leaders brought to a vote in the darkest hours of the night – like all previous Republican proposals to repeal the Affordable Care Act – was drafted in a backroom without public input and would have been devastating for millions of hard working Americans and their families. “Over the last several months, hundreds of thousands of Americans have used their voices to oppose Republican plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act. They attended townhall meetings, organized rallies, and urged their Senators and Representatives to oppose partisan Republican bills that would callously strip health insurance from millions of people. The vast majority of Republicans in the House of Representatives ignored their pleas and passed a heartless, partisan Trumpcare bill that would have gutted essential health benefits, eliminated protections for people with pre-existing conditions, slashed more than $800 billion from Medicaid, and caused 23 million people to lose their health insurance. “Fortunately, three Republican Senators wisely put their country and their constituents first and ensured that we will have another chance to work together on a bipartisan basis on behalf of the American people. I congratulate these three Senators for their courage and their commitment to their constituents. I am encouraged and inspired by their actions, and I hope that all Republicans will now begin working with Democrats to develop bipartisan legislation that will provide the American people the quality, affordable health care they deserve.” ###
07.27.2017	Rep. Waters Floor Speech: Trump Proposals are Disastrous for People with Disabilities WASHINGTON—Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered a blistering rebuke of Donald Trump’s Fiscal Year 2018 budget and Trumpcare proposals which would jeopardize the health and quality of life of millions of Americans with disabilities. Her remarks as prepared for delivery follow: Mr. Speaker, I request unanimous consent to address the House for 5 minutes. Mr. Speaker – Yesterday was the 27th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act. It is a day to reflect on how people with disabilities are treated in our society. Mocking the Disabled Donald Trump showed us who he is and what he thinks of people with disabilities long before he was elected, when he callously mocked a disabled reporter. Mocking the disabled is rude and insensitive, and it sends a terrible message to our children. Who are the disabled people who were mocked that day? They are veterans, who lost a limb or suffered a traumatic brain injury while courageously serving our country. They are children, who were born with serious medical conditions, like autism, Down’s syndrome, and cerebral palsy. They are victims of workplace accidents and car accidents. They are victims of mass shootings and terrorist attacks. They are senior citizens in nursing homes. They are our mothers and fathers, our brothers and sisters, our friends and neighbors, and our children. They might be us today, or they may be us a year from now. They deserve to be treated with respect. And they deserve quality health care! Trumpcare Given what we already know about Donald Trump, it should come as no surprise that Trumpcare would have a devastating impact on people with disabilities. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has scored several versions of Trumpcare. Most would cause at least 22 million people to lose their health insurance.[1] The so-called “repeal only” bill, which repeals the Affordable Care Act and does not replace it with anything, would cause 32 million people to lose their health insurance.[2] Even the so-called “skinny Trumpcare” would cause 16 million people to lose health coverage and increase premiums by 20 percent.[3] When people with disabilities lose their health insurance, they cannot get affordable treatment for their medical conditions. And when healthy people lose their health insurance and then become disabled, they too will not be able to find affordable treatment for their injuries. Furthermore, when they try to find a new health policy, their disability will be considered a pre-existing condition. Trumpcare cuts more than $700 billion from Medicaid. According to an analysis by the Center for American Progress, more than 15 million children and adults with disabilities rely on Medicaid for their health coverage and could lose it if Trumpcare were to become law.[4] Trump’s Budget Donald Trump’s budget would also have a devastating impact on people with disabilities. Trump’s budget cuts $40 billion over the next ten years from benefits earned by American veterans who are unable to work because of a service-connected disability.[5] His budget cuts billions from Social Security Disability Insurance, which provides earned benefits to workers who become disabled after years of paying Social Security taxes on their earnings.[6] His budget cuts billions from Supplemental Security Income, which protects vulnerable people with disabilities, including 1.2 million children who suffer from conditions such as Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, autism, intellectual disabilities, and blindness.[7] His budget cuts funding for the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act by $113 million, jeopardizing special education services for students with disabilities.[8] His budget cuts funding for housing for persons with disabilities by 20 percent.[9] His budget eliminates the Limb Loss Resource Center and the Paralysis Resource Center, cuts support for people with traumatic brain injuries by 67 percent, and cuts funding for the National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities by 26 percent.[10] It even eliminates Special Olympics Education.[11] Conclusion People with disabilities deserve better. That is why we must raise our voices to support them, oppose budget cuts that target them, and protect their health care! Stopping Trumpcare is not about politics. It’s a matter of life and death. And this is especially true for people with disabilities! ### [1] https://www.cbpp.org/blog/the-5-key-facts-about-the-senate-health-debate [2] https://www.cbpp.org/blog/the-5-key-facts-about-the-senate-health-debate [3] https://www.rollcall.com/news/policy/cbo-16-million-uninsured-potential-skinny-repeal [4] https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/poverty/news/2017/03/22/428185/impact-medicaid-cuts-people-disabilities-state-state-breakdown/ [5] https://democrats-budget.house.gov/sites/democrats.budget.house.gov/files/documents/POTUS%20Budget%20Summary%20and%20Analysis_05.24.17_FINAL.pdf, p. 5. [6] CBPP, https://www.cbpp.org/blog/presidents-budget-would-hurt-people-with-disabilities [7] CBPP, https://www.cbpp.org/blog/presidents-budget-would-hurt-people-with-disabilities [8] https://democrats-edworkforce.house.gov/imo/media/doc/Ed%20&%20Workforce%20FY18%20Budget%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf, p. 1. [9] CAP, https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/news/2017/05/23/432851/trump-budgets-attack-people-disabilities/ [10] CAP, https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/news/2017/05/23/432851/trump-budgets-attack-people-disabilities/, p. 5. [11] https://democrats-edworkforce.house.gov/imo/media/doc/Ed%20&%20Workforce%20FY18%20Budget%20Fact%20Sheet.pdf, p. 1.
07.27.2017	Congresswoman Waters Joins Nancy Pelosi and Elizabeth Warren to Fight for Consumer Protections WASHINGTON--Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, joined House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and Senator Elizabeth Warren in a press conference to discuss the negative impact on consumers if Republicans overturn the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s rule to prohibit forced arbitration, which ensures that consumers are not required to sign away their legal rights in order to open a bank account, obtain a credit card, finance a car, or obtain a private student loan. Her full remarks are below. As Prepared for Delivery Thank you so very much, Leader Pelosi. I am so delighted to be here with Nancy Pelosi, the first woman speaker of the United States Congress in the history of the Unites States Congress, and Senator Elizabeth Warren, who is a leader that helped to create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and is the leader who is constantly speaking out on behalf of consumers, helping people to understand what we can do to give consumers a fair chance in our society, to have a good quality of life, and not to be ripped off by those who are in power and are in high places. And so, I’m here this morning to call out yet another shameful Republican effort to take away important consumer protections. Earlier this month, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau issued a final rule banning forced arbitration clauses in contracts for consumer financial products. The rule ensures that consumers are not required to sign away their legal rights in order to open a bank account, obtain a credit card, finance a car, or obtain a private student loan. The rule is very important because consumers who are cheated by financial institutions and who are then forced into closed-door arbitration receive more compensation than they would’ve received if they had had the opportunity to have their day in court. Forced arbitration benefits large corporations and Wall Street banks to the detriment of consumers. For example, Wells Fargo continues to use forced arbitration to prevent consumers from pursuing class action lawsuits against the bank for opening millions of fraudulent accounts using their personal information. The Joint Resolution the Republicans have put forth uses the Congressional Review Act to senselessly repeal the Consumer Bureau’s important new rule. This is outrageous and unacceptable. Unfortunately, it is just the latest in a wave of Republican attacks on financial regulation and consumer protection. In June, House Republicans passed what I call the “Wrong Choice Act,” a bill to dismantle the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and gut the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Now, they are moving to snatch away legal rights from consumers. I, and other Democrats are determined to continue to fight against these harmful efforts, and stand up for Main Street. ###
07.21.2017	Congresswoman Waters: Stopping Trumpcare is a Matter of Life and Death! WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the Congressional Budget Office’s analyses of the two most recent Senate Republican proposals to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “Stopping Trumpcare is not about politics. It’s a matter of life and death. Since it is clear that Donald Trump himself is not interested in the substance of health policy or the work required to craft credible legislation, the Republicans must stop listening to him and start working with Democrats to improve Obamacare and give Americans families the quality health care they deserve. “Over the last several months, hundreds of thousands of Americans have used their voices to oppose Republican plans to repeal the Affordable Care Act. They attended townhall meetings, organized rallies, and expressed their outrage in response to partisan Republican bills that would callously cause millions of people to lose their health insurance. That is why it is so appalling that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is determined to force Republican Senators to vote next week on a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act. “The latest version of the Affordable Care Act repeal bill is as dangerous for American families as most of the previous versions. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO), this bill would cause 22 million people to lose their health insurance over the next 10 years and raise premiums by 20 percent next year. It is no wonder so many Americans are terrified by what repealing the Affordable Care Act would mean for themselves and their families. “Another version of the Affordable Care Act repeal bill also under consideration by Senate Republicans is downright catastrophic! That outrageous bill does not include any replacement whatsoever for the Affordable Care Act, and would cause an astonishing 32 million people to lose their health insurance. CBO reported that the bill would raise premiums in the individual marketplaces by 25 percent next year, and by an astounding 100 percent by 2026. Furthermore, half of the nation’s population would be living in areas of the country where no health insurance company would even be participating in these marketplaces. “The Affordable Care Act repeal bill passed by House Republicans in May would also be a disaster. That bill would cause 23 million people to lose their health insurance, eliminate essential health benefits, and slash Medicaid by more than $800 billion. Even Donald Trump called the House bill ‘mean,’ despite celebrating its passage with a White House ceremony. “We cannot allow Donald Trump and his Republican allies to recklessly dismantle our nation’s health system. I am encouraged by the fact that several Senate Republicans have already voiced their objections to these heartless repeal bills. I urge the Senate Republicans who have not yet done so to join their colleagues in opposition to these terrible bills and start working with Democrats to pass bipartisan legislation that will provide the American people the quality, affordable health care they deserve.” ###
07.20.2017	Congresswoman Waters Introduces Resolution in Honor of the Tenth Annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a leading advocate in Congress for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment, introduced a resolution (H.Res. 463) in the House of Representatives today in honor of the tenth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, which is celebrated every year on July 21st. The resolution is cosponsored by 15 Members of Congress. “I am proud to have supported National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day since its founding in 2008,” said Congresswoman Waters. “This year, I am especially proud to introduce a resolution in honor of the tenth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. This important day is an opportunity to highlight the critical role that doctors, nurses, dentists, and other clinicians play in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, and treatment efforts. It is also an opportunity to encourage clinicians to promote HIV testing among their patients.” H.Res. 463 urges physicians, nurses, dentists, and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. “More than 1.2 million people are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and almost one in eight do not know they are infected. By encouraging their patients to be tested for HIV, doctors and nurses can enable infected individuals to access appropriate medical care and begin taking action to avoid spreading the virus to others,” stated Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is a leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998. On April 6th of this year, she sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2018, which was signed by 80 Members of Congress. Furthermore, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1882), a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons; H.R. 1882 is cosponsored by 36 of her colleagues. ###
07.19.2017	Rep. Waters Hosts Torrance Artist at Congressional Art Competition Awards in Washington WASHINGTON — Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, welcomed the winner of the 43rd Congressional District’s 2017 Congressional Art Competition, Eddie Kim, to her Washington, D.C. office. Kim, a senior at Ambassador High School in Torrance, California, joined hundreds of students from across the country whose art work was unveiled at the Annual Congressional Art Competition Awards Ceremony in the U.S. Capitol Congressional Auditorium. “Eddie Kim is an incredibly talented young artist from the 43rd District, and I am thrilled to welcome him to Washington where his art work will be on display for thousands of guests to view in the U.S. Capitol,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. Eddie Kim was one of the 13 students from the 43rd District who submitted original art work for the 2017 competition. His graphite pencil and watercolor drawing titled “Nostalgia” will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year. Since the Congressional Art Competition began in 1982, more than 650,000 high school students have participated. For more information about the 2017 Congressional Art Competition or to review the 2018 submission guidelines, please visit https://waters.house.gov/services/art-competition. ###
07.18.2017	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in recognition of Nelson Mandela International Day which was commemorated by the United Nations General Assembly in recognition of his lifetime of service in South Africa and all over the world: “Today, it is with great pride that I join millions of people around the world to honor the life and legacy of South African President Nelson Mandela. In his 95 years of life, President Mandela, or ‘Madiba’ as he was affectionately called, was a revolutionary and transformative leader who forever changed the world through his steadfast dedication to freedom, equality, and human rights. After spending 27 years in prison, Nelson Mandela became the first black South African to be elected President in what was also the first free, multi-racial, democratic election in South African history. While President Mandela used his administration to dismantle apartheid, combat institutional racism, and begin the process of racial reconciliation in his country, his efforts also taught the world the power of one man having the fortitude to sacrifice his own ideals for a cause greater than himself. “To me, Nelson Mandela is more than a world-renowned hero – I had the distinct honor and privilege of calling him a friend. His leadership of the international anti-apartheid movement encouraged me to take action here in the United States where I served as the Los Angles Chair of the Free South Africa Movement, organized countless anti-apartheid rallies in Los Angeles, led a sit-in at the South African Consulate General Office in Los Angeles, and was even arrested during a protest at the South African Embassy in Washington, DC. As a member of the California State Assembly, I fought for the passage of Assembly Bill 134 which forced California to divest $12 billion in state pension funds tied to the apartheid regime in South Africa. Additionally, in 1990, I chaired the committee in Los Angles that brought over 90,000 people together in the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to welcome Nelson Mandela into the United States, and I also traveled with the official United States delegation to South Africa in 1994 to attend his inauguration as President of South Africa. In 1998, I was honored to welcome President Mandela to the United States once again, this time to receive the U.S. Congressional Gold Medal. “As we reflect on Nelson Mandela’s memory today, on what would have been his 99th birthday, let us remember when he once said, ‘What counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead.' Few embody this quote better than Nelson Mandela himself, and it is my sincere hope that my own career in public service lives up to his extraordinary example.” ###
07.18.2017	Rep. Waters Joins National Black Clergy Members to Protest Trump FY’18 Budget Joins Press Conference in Recognition of 2017 Black Church Advocacy Day WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered a fiery rebuke of Donald Trump’s proposed Fiscal Year 2018 budget during the 2017 Black Church Advocacy on Capitol Hill Press Conference. The event -- which was hosted by the Progressive National Baptist Convention, the Presbyterian Church USA, Values Partnerships, the Ecumenical Poverty Initiative, the National Council of Churches of Christ USA and the National African American Clergy Network -- featured Members of Congress, activists, and clergy members representing vulnerable communities across the nation which would be most impacted by the president’s mean-spirited proposal. “As a Member of Congress serving as Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, and having served in Congress for over 26 years, I am deeply concerned about the direction and the future of this country under Donald Trump,” said Congresswoman Waters. “A president’s budget is the blueprint of a president’s priorities and values, and Donald Trump’s budget makes it glaringly clear that he does not care about hard-working Americans and their families. Like so much of what we’ve come to understand about this President, all of his pledges last year to preserve and protect Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the social safety net were lies. Trump’s budget is wrong for the country—it’s a mean and heartless plan that only benefits the rich while the rest of us are left to pick up the pieces.” Congresswoman Waters’ full remarks at the press conference are below. As Prepared for Delivery: I am pleased to join you today. I want to thank Rev. Kip Banks, Rev. Dr. Barbara William Skinner, the Progressive National Baptist Convention, the Presbyterian Church USA, the National Council of Churches of Christ USA, the National African American Clergy Network, and all of the organizers of this important event. As a Member of Congress serving as Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, and having served in Congress for over 26 years, I am deeply concerned about the direction and the future of this country under Donald Trump. When the President released his budget on May 23rd he promised unprecedented growth, tax cuts for all, deficit reduction, and a balanced budget. We all know that this president cannot be trusted, and his budget is no exception to that rule. Instead of supporting working families and uplifting the most vulnerable among us, Trump’s budget is one big tax cut for millionaires and billionaires, like he and his allies, which is financed on the backs of seniors, children, and other vulnerable communities. If enacted, this mean and heartless budget will cause considerable heartache and pain for millions of Americans. Allow me to share a few examples of this disastrous budget. While Donald Trump is busy proposing enormous tax cuts for his friends, his budget cuts funding to almost every single significant government program other than defense. Crucial agencies like the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Education, Housing and Urban Development, the National Institute of Health and others all face unprecedented slashes to their budgets. Trump proposes these tax cuts while simultaneously redistributing wealth into the hands and the bank accounts of the rich. Stealing from the poor to give to the rich is unconscionable, and will only add to the increasing inequality in our country. Trump’s budget is also a full-on assault on our society’s safety nets that millions of Americans including children, veterans, and the elderly rely upon. His budget jeopardizes our healthcare system by cutting more than $1 trillion from Medicaid over the next 10 years, eliminating meals on wheels, reducing funding for food stamps, and drastically cutting social security disability insurance. Educating our youth will also be harder under Trump’s budget plan. Trump’s proposal cuts $4 billion from Pell Grants, a vital program for those families who have a hard time affording college. It cuts the Department of Education’s budget by more than $9 billion in next year alone, and cuts support services for disadvantaged students. These cuts will make it difficult for school districts that serve low income communities, many of which already struggle to keep the lights on and operate effectively. Trump didn’t stop there. He’s also proposing $250 million in funding cuts from the TRIO and GEAR UP programs, which support first generation college students from low-income and minority communities. Trump’s budget also undermines federal housing policies and programs which ensure that the most vulnerable American households have access to safe, decent, and affordable housing. He wants to reduce the Housing and Urban Development budget by 13%, and worse still he’ll pay for this by eliminating the community development block grant program, which supports urban-renewal projects. He also proposes eliminating the HOME Investment Partnerships, Choice Neighborhood, and Self-Help Homeownership opportunity programs. All of these programs exist to help low-income families buy homes and to redevelop poorer, urban neighborhoods. Trump’s budget – just like his presidency so far – would be a total disaster. According to the Congressional Budget Office, our economy would grow at a rate only about half of what the White House is claiming. Less economic growth means less revenue, which also means a bigger deficit and greater income inequality, while his tax cuts for the rich mean a $5 trillion bill for the American taxpayer over the next decade. A president’s budget is the blueprint of a president’s priorities and values, and Donald Trump’s budget makes it glaringly clear that he does not care about hard-working Americans and their families. Like so much of what we’ve come to understand about this President, all of his pledges last year to preserve and protect Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the social safety net that has protected our nation’s seniors were lies. Trump’s budget is wrong for the country—it’s a mean and heartless plan that only benefits the rich while the rest of us are left to pick up the pieces. ###
07.17.2017	WASHINGTON - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters sent a letter to the California State Legislature in support of California Assembly Bill (AB) 375, the California Broadband Internet Privacy Act. On April 3, 2017, President Donald Trump signed into law a repeal of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) internet privacy rules that would have required internet service providers (ISPs) such as Comcast and Verizon to obtain customers’ consent before selling their personal information. Without those internet privacy rules, an internet customer’s private information, including their browsing and internet usage history, can be sold off without that individual’s knowledge or consent. Assembly Bill 375 protects the privacy of all Californians by requiring ISPs to get opt-in consent form consumers in order to use, disclose, sell, or permit access to their personal information. It further prohibits ISPs from charging consumers a penalty or refusing to provide service when they decline to provide such consent. Congresswoman Waters has also co-sponsored a federal bill, the Online Privacy Act, which is similar to AB 375 and would protect internet users nationwide from the effects of the recent repeal of the FCC’s internet privacy rules. The full text of the letter is below: July 17, 2017 The Honorable Ed Chau Chair, Assembly Committee on Privacy and Consumer Protection State Capitol, Room 5016 Sacramento, CA 95814 Dear Assemblymember Chau: In April of this year, President Donald Trump and congressional Republicans repealed the privacy rules adopted by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) under President Obama’s administration. These rules would have given broadband internet customers greater control over their personal information by requiring that internet service providers (ISPs) obtain consumers’ permission before selling customer data to advertisers. These regulations were developed over the course of several years and reflected extensive public comment. Without these rules, corporate ISPs can now sell their subscribers’ sensitive, highly personal information to the highest bidder without consent. Repealing these regulations sacrificed every American’s basic privacy rights in favor of corporate interests. I have been a long time champion of advancing telecommunications policies that protect consumers, and I continue to fight for every American’s right to privacy. That is why I’m co-sponsoring the Online Privacy Act, federal legislation which would restore our right to say when and how our private information is used. It is also why I write today, to express my support for the California Broadband Internet Privacy Act (A.B. 375), which like the Online Privacy Act ensures that consumers enjoy choice, transparency, security and digital privacy when using the internet. I commend the Assembly for taking the steps necessary to restore what the recently repealed FCC privacy rules were designed to accomplish. California has been at the leading edge of innovation in approaching privacy issues and consumer protection for years, and with this legislation that leadership continues. I support your legislation, which will give Californians control over their basic privacy rights. Sincerely, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43)
07.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters Supports the Net Neutrality Day of Action and Fights for Internet Freedom and Privacy WASHINGTON -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in recognition of the Net Neutrality Day of Action: “Today I stand, joined by hundreds of companies, advocates, and concerned Americans, in support of the Net Neutrality Day of Action and to speak out against the Federal Communications Commission’s (FCC) so-called ‘Restoring Internet Freedom’ rulemaking – a proposal that should frighten anyone who values equal access to the web. If these rules are implemented, massive internet service providers like Comcast, AT&T, and Verizon will be allowed to speed up and slow down the internet, block website traffic, and give preferential treatment to customers who pay more. The internet treats all web traffic equally, but the recently proposed rules create two internets: a faster, more open internet for those who pay to play, and another internet for the rest of us. Communities of color, students, and many ordinary consumers may have their online access obstructed. The proposed rules would fundamentally change the internet as we’ve always known it, and roll back years of work by me, and many of my colleagues, to foster a free and fair internet. The only group that stands to benefit from these rules are corporations and their bottom line. “During the Trump Administration, we have already seen other important FCC rules rolled back. In April, Donald Trump signed a law repealing FCC privacy rules which would have required internet service providers to obtain consumers’ consent before selling their personal, private information to advertisers. In response, I am co-sponsoring the Online Privacy Act -- federal legislation that would restore our right to say when and how our private information is used. “I have been a long-time champion of advancing telecommunications policies that protect consumers, internet freedom, and privacy rights. I have actively advocated for net neutrality since the public interest efforts in 2009 surrounding the Comcast-NBC merger, and continuing through the subsequent debates in Congress. We’ve fought long and hard for net neutrality, but it’s a fight that must not cease. If the FCC’s ‘Restoring Internet Freedom’ rules aren’t stopped, they will destroy protections for consumers, reduce competition, and make it more difficult to deliver broadband to the nation’s most vulnerable and remote communities. Now is not the time to reverse the progress that has been made. FCC Chairman Ajit Pai appears intent on categorically dismantling the FCC’s public interest authority while padding the deep pockets of telecom giants. I hope that the FCC will listen to everyone who has spoken out in support of net neutrality, and reverse course on its current rulemaking. The official comment period on the FCC’s proposed rulemaking ends on July 17th.” ###
07.11.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE July 11, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters: It is time for the Republicans to Work with us to Improve Obamacare WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today regarding the status of Senate Republicans’ negotiations to pass a bill that would repeal the Affordable Care Act: “After months of backroom negotiations, it is now clear that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell is unable to bring together the various factions of the Senate Republican Conference to pass a bill repealing the Affordable Care Act, despite seven years of promises to the Republican Party’s base. Meanwhile, the bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act passed by the House is so bad for our country that Senate Republicans never seriously considered it. “In the weeks since the House passed its bill, public awareness has increased, and more and more of the Republicans’ constituents are realizing just how harmful these Republican repeal bills would be for working families. According to the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, both the House and Senate bills would cause more than 20 million Americans to lose their health insurance. Millions of others would have to pay more for less coverage. Older Americans between the ages of 50 and 64 would be forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for the same coverage. Both bills eliminate essential health benefits and slash Medicaid by more than $700 billion. Even Donald Trump called the House bill ‘mean,’ despite celebrating its passage with a White House ceremony. “The Republicans have put themselves in a no-win position through their willingness to jeopardize the health care of millions of Americans in an effort to make good on wild and untenable promises about repealing and replacing Obamacare. However, I believe that there are enough Senate Republicans who dare not return to their states with a damaging repeal bill that undermines their constituents’ access to health care – or eliminates it altogether. “We must fight to maintain and improve Obamacare. It is the only way to ensure quality health care for the American people. Mitch McConnell may have indicated a willingness to improve Obamacare with his statement that some kind of action with regard to health insurance markets must occur if Republicans cannot agree on a replacement. Democrats have said repeatedly that Obamacare is not perfect and we are willing to work together with our Republican colleagues to improve the law. Let us hope the Republicans will finally come to their senses so we can pass bipartisan legislation to provide the very best health care that the American people deserve.” ###
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the announcement by Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell that there will not be a vote this week on the Senate Republicans’ bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act: “I was pleased to learn that Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell had to delay the Trumpcare vote in the U.S. Senate because he failed to secure enough support for this heartless and mean-spirited legislation. The Republicans’ so-called health care bill would place millions of Americans at risk. I am encouraged that there were enough Republicans in the Senate – many of whom are feeling the pressure from the American people to protect our health care system – who understood just how harmful this bill would be for working families across this country. “The Senate bill would cause 22 million Americans to lose their health coverage. Millions of others would have to pay more for less coverage. Middle class families would face higher premiums, deductibles, and out-of-pocket costs. Insurance companies could reinstate annual and lifetime limits on care, make costs soar for people with pre-existing conditions, and eliminate coverage for essential health benefits, including maternity care, mental health care, cancer screenings, and prescription drugs. “For older Americans, premiums, deductibles, and co-payments would skyrocket! Those between the ages of 50 and 64 would be forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others would pay for the same coverage. This crushing age tax would fall on some of the most vulnerable members of our society, elderly people on fixed incomes, many of whom have serious health issues. “The Senate bill would slash Medicaid by more than $700 billion over the next ten years and impose even greater cuts after 2026. These cuts would endanger the lives of millions of vulnerable children, seniors, people with disabilities, and low-income Americans who depend upon Medicaid for their health care needs. “Majority Leader McConnell has stated that they will address this issue following the July 4th break, but I am hopeful that the Republicans will not continue to try to pass this terrible bill. I commend the Republican Senators who recognized the harm their constituents would face if the Affordable Care Act was repealed and Trumpcare was passed. It is time for the Republicans to discontinue any and all attempts to pass any legislation that will destroy the health care system for Americans and rather support the right of all people to have access to quality, affordable health care.” ###
06.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Maxine Waters Hosts Town Hall Meeting in Gardena LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, hosted a town hall meeting with residents of the Gardena, Hawthorne, and Lawndale communities on Saturday, June 24, 2017. The town hall, which filled the Nakaoka Community Center to capacity, highlighted the most important issues facing the 115th Congress and their effects on the 43rd Congressional District. “I was thrilled to host a community meeting with residents of Gardena, Hawthorne, and Lawndale on Saturday,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “The issues currently being debated in the U.S. Congress will have profound impacts on South Bay communities, and I enjoyed having an opportunity to hear directly from 43rd District residents and to share updates on the steps that I am taking in Washington to address their concerns.” The town hall was the second in a series of town hall meetings that Congresswoman Waters is hosting across her district to discuss local and national concerns such as the Trump Administration FY 2018 budget proposal, Republican efforts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and the ongoing F.B.I. and Congressional probes into Russian interference in the 2016 election. Congresswoman Waters was joined by elected officials including Gardena Mayor Tasha Cerda, who introduced her, Lawndale Mayor Robert Pullen Miles, Hawthorne City Councilmember Nilo Michelin, members of Gardena’s City Council, and the Gardena Democratic Club. The meeting also highlighted local community members including Gardena Girl Scouts Troop 1355, who led the Pledge of Allegiance, and the Gardena Second Time Around Seniors Club which is led by President LaVerne Knight. Following opening remarks by Congresswoman Waters, the town hall meeting featured two panels of local policy experts who discussed healthcare, housing policy, and the Trump Administration’s agenda. The healthcare panel included National Medical Association Past President Dr. Randall Maxey, Covered California Director of External Affairs Kelly Green, and Harbor/UCLA Hospital Chief Quality Office and Emergency Physician Dr. Clinton Coil, who discussed the recent efforts by Congressional Republicans to repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and how it would affect health care in California. The second panel, which discussed housing policy, included remarks by Andre Serrette, who is the Assistant Manager of the County of Los Angeles Housing Authority; Pat Razzaghi, a Housing Specialist from the City of Hawthorne; and, Linda Jenkins, a Manager of the County of Los Angeles Community Development Commission. The Los Angeles Times Deputy Editorial Page Director Jon Healey discussed the LA Times’ six-part editorial series “Our Dishonest President” which criticized Donald Trump’s inconsistencies on public policy and highlighted how the state of California could fight back. “I am so pleased that my constituents were able to attend a substantive meeting where they heard my analysis on what Democrats are working on in Washington and also gained insights from local experts on policy issues like housing and healthcare reform,” said Congresswoman Waters. “For many months, residents of the 43rd District have expressed concerns about the direction of our country, and due to space limitations they were given priority access to our community meeting over residents of other districts. Despite organized efforts by Donald Trump aligned groups to disrupt the meeting, Saturday’s town hall was a great success and I look forward to hosting more town halls in the 43rd District over the next few months.” Congresswoman Waters has introduced the following legislation in the 115th Congress: Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 2973) Requires the U.S. Postal Service to issue and sell a semipostal stamp, with the proceeds helping to fund Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health. Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act (H.R.2972) Authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of patients with Alzheimer’s disease. Freezing Russian Sanctions Act (H.R.2935) To codify Executive Order 13694 (relating to blocking the property of certain persons engaging in significant malicious cyber-enabled activities) and to codify certain Executive orders imposing sanctions in relation to the situation in Ukraine. Deny Russian Access to Diplomatic Compounds Act (H.R.2934) To prohibit access to and use of certain Russian-owned diplomatic facilities and properties by the Government of the Russian Federation, and for other purposes. Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act (H.R.2744) To revise the 90–10 rule under the Higher Education Act of 1965 to count veterans’ education benefits under such rule, and for other purposes. 85/15 Rule Act (H.R.2743) To amend the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require that proprietary institutions of higher education derive not less than fifteen percent of revenues from sources other than funds provided under title IV of such Act. Minority Diabetes Initiative Act (H.R.2351) To establish an initiative to provide grants to community‑based organizations and health care providers for diabetes prevention, care, and treatment programs in minority communities. Court Legal Access and Student Support (CLASS) Act of 2017 (H.R.2301) Prevents any school receiving Title IV funds from the Department of Education from forcing students into arbitration or placing any restriction on students’ access to courts. Students Before Profits Act of 2017 (H.R.2300) Authorizes enhanced penalties on for-profit colleges and their executive officers if it is determined that the institution misrepresented its costs, admission requirements, completion rates, employment prospects, or student loan default rates. No Russia Exemption (REX) Act (H.R.2145) Prohibits the Trump Administration from providing special licenses to companies to engage in certain activities related to oil exploration and drilling in Russia. Ending Homelessness Act of 2017 (H.R.2076) Provides Americans who are currently homeless access to both housing and supportive services to help the homeless achieve safe, decent, and affordable housing as well as long-term, positive life outcomes. Stop AIDS in Prison Act of 2017 (H.R.1882) Develops a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment, and prevention for inmates within the correctional setting and upon reentry. H.R.1641 - To amend the Small Business Act to clarify the responsibilities of Business Opportunity Specialists, and for other purposes. H.Con.Res.15 - Asserting that Congress should expend the resources necessary to investigate thoroughly the nature and extent of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election, including whether there was collusion between persons associated with the Russian government and persons associated with the presidential campaign of Donald J. Trump to influence the outcome of the election. ###
06.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters Condemns the Appointment of Dr. A. Wayne Johnson as Chief Operating Officer of Federal Student Aid WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the announcement that Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos intends to appoint Dr. A Wayne Johnson as Chief Operating Officer of Federal Student Aid: “I am appalled that Secretary Betsy DeVos intends to appoint Dr. A. Wayne Johnson, the CEO of a private for-profit student loan company, to head the office of Federal Student Aid (FSA). The FSA is the largest provider of student loans in the country, and is responsible for managing and protecting the financial interests of every aid seeking student in the nation. It is despicable that the Secretary would select someone who represents the very people who financially benefit from the student debt crisis to head up the FSA. I fear that this appointment will harm students and our higher education system. “Dr. Johnson comes from the banking and credit industry. Like the Secretary herself, he has no prior experience working as a teacher, principal, or any other type of school administrator. Dr. Johnson’s current role as CEO of a company that refinances and originates student loans is incompatible with his duties as Chief Operating Officer of Federal Student Aid, and calls into question whether he will put student interests before the profitability of the industry he comes form. It is not surprising that, in announcing his potential appointment, the Department of Education did not specifically mention his ties to for-profit student loan companies.[1] “Secretary DeVos continues to choose for-profit corporate interests over students, and clearly has no intention of guarding the integrity of our education system. If she won’t fight for our students, I will. I have made it my mission to fight against for-profit colleges that use predatory and manipulative practices to target low-income communities and saddle students with overwhelming debt. This Congress, I’ve introduced H.R. 2300, the Students Before Profits Act of 2017, and H.R. 2301, the Court Legal Access & Student Support (CLASS) Act of 2017. Together these bills would enhance penalties on for-profit colleges which misrepresent their costs, employment prospects, student loan default rates, completion rates and admission requirements, and stop schools that receive federal funds from using enrollment agreements to limit student’s access to courts. I would ask every member of Congress, and every concerned American, to join me in this fight and voice their concerns.” ### [1] https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/secretary-education-betsy-devos-announces-intent-appoint-dr-wayne-johnson-chief-operating-officer-federal-student-aid
06.21.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 21, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Maxine Waters and Congressman Chris Smith Introduce Bipartisan Legislation to Confront the Challenges of Alzheimer’s Disease WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, introduced the Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act and the Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp Act in recognition of Alzheimer’s and Brain Awareness Month. These two bipartisan bills have more than 50 original cosponsors and were endorsed by the Alzheimer’s Association and the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America. “Alzheimer’s is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and it has reached crisis proportions,” said Congresswoman Waters. “There is no effective treatment, no means of prevention, and no method for slowing the progression of the disease.” “All of us know a friend or family member who are among the 5.5 million Americans who suffer the ravages of Alzheimer’s disease. Congress must continually pursue a full court press to support research, raise awareness and support those currently living with, or caring for someone with Alzheimer’s disease. The legislation we introduce today seeks to increase NIH funding for Alzheimer’s research and ensure caregivers have access to the training and resources they need to provide effective care—as we continue work towards prevention, treatment and, hopefully, a cure,” said Congressman Smith. The Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 2972) authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families, and caregivers, of patients with Alzheimer’s disease. “More than 15 million Americans provide unpaid care to family and friends living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act will improve the ability of caregivers to provide effective and compassionate care and will allow more Alzheimer’s patients to remain in their homes with people who love them.” The Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 2973) requires the U.S. Postal Service to issue and sell a semipostal stamp, with the proceeds helping to fund Alzheimer’s disease research at the National Institutes of Health. The bill is modeled on the popular and successful Breast Cancer Research Semipostal Stamp. “The Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp Act will raise public awareness about Alzheimer’s and encourage individuals to make voluntary contributions to research efforts,” said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 5 million Americans were living with Alzheimer’s disease in the year 2013, and this number is expected to almost triple to 14 million by the year 2050. The Alzheimer’s Association calculated that caregivers provided more than 18 billion hours of unpaid care for people with dementia in 2016, at an estimated value of over $230 billion. Compared with caregivers for people without dementia, twice as many caregivers for people with dementia indicate substantial emotional, financial and physical stress. “Together, these two bipartisan bills will assist Alzheimer’s patients and their families; promote public awareness of Alzheimer’s disease; and encourage voluntary contributions to research efforts,” said Congresswoman Waters. ###
06.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 19, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters Introduces Legislation to Stop the Trump Administration from Weakening or Reversing Punishments on Russia WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, introduced two bills – the Freezing Russian Sanctions Act and the Deny Russian Access to Diplomatic Compounds Act – which, together, would prevent President Donald Trump’s Administration from weakening or reversing punishments imposed on Russia by the Obama Administration for interference in the 2016 election and for activities in Ukraine. “Despite all that we continue to discover about the full scope of Russian efforts to undermine our democracy, the Trump Administration and those connected to it – many of whom have ties to Russia or pro-Russia forces in Ukraine – have been inexplicably focused on lifting sanctions and other punishments rightly imposed on Russia for their belligerent conduct toward the United States and other countries around the world,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “My legislation would forestall any efforts by this Administration to do so.” In recent weeks, there have been multiple indications that the Trump Administration may be considering actions to weaken existing punishments on Russia. On May 25, 2017, Trump’s National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn said the President is “looking at” changes to existing economic sanctions on Russia for its role in the annexation of Ukraine’s Crimea region. Similarly, on May 31, 2017, the Washington Post reported that the Trump Administration was moving toward restoring the Russian Government’s access to a 14-acre estate in New York and a 45-acre property in Maryland, both of which were believed to be used by Russia for intelligence purposes until they were ejected from the compounds in December 2016 by the Obama Administration as punishment for Russia’s interference in the 2016 election.[1] As the Trump Administration considers taking action to reverse or lessen these punishments, many of Donald Trump’s associates and campaign operatives – such as his former campaign Foreign Policy Advisor Carter Page, former National Security Advisor Michael Flynn, and son-in-law and Senior Advisor Jared Kushner – remain at the center of Justice Department and/or Congressional probes into Russian interference in the 2016 election. It is also worth noting that Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who while previously serving as CEO of ExxonMobil, negotiated an agreement that could be worth millions of dollars if the U.S. sanctions against Russia are lifted. “Given all that we know about the Russian hacking, the question must be raised: why are so many people in this Administration trying to pay back the Kremlin? Why does Donald Trump refuse to condemn or disavow in the harshest possible terms Putin’s aggressions in Ukraine and efforts to undermine democracies around the world? While the Administration has struggled to find a legislative agenda, it has been uniquely consistent on attempting to appease Putin. We need to keep a close eye on this Administration, and since we cannot trust that they will not lift Russian sanctions or weaken other punishments, there is a need for strong legislative action,” said Rep. Waters. “My legislation would strengthen Congress’ ability to enforce checks and balances on any attempts by the Trump Administration to circumvent or undo punishments on the Kremlin.” A brief description of Congresswoman Waters’ legislation is below: The Deny Russian Access to Diplomatic Compounds Act would codify the existing prohibition on the Russian Government’s access to, and use of, diplomatic compounds in New York and Maryland. The Freezing Russian Sanctions Act would freeze in place U.S. sanctions against Russia as of January 1, 2017. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Waters also introduced the “No Russia Exemptions for Oil Production Act” (the No REX Act), which prohibits the Trump Administration from providing special licenses to companies to engage in certain activities related to oil exploration and drilling in Russia. ###
06.19.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 19, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on the Finsbury Park London Terror Attack WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the attack on Muslim worshippers in north London’s Finsbury Park: “I am disturbed by the horrific and xenophobic terrorist attack that took place in Finsbury Park London, during which one man died and at least ten people were injured. This heinous act targeted Muslim worshipers and was carried out during the Holy Month of Ramadan – one of the most sacred periods of prayer and introspection in the Muslim faith. My heart goes out to all of the victims, their families, and the Muslim community in London as they continue to recover from this senseless act of violence. “Vicious attacks on Muslims like the one in Finsbury Park are meant to incite fear, discourage tolerance, and threaten religious freedom around the world. It is my sincere belief that the international community must work together to condemn xenophobic terrorism and all forms of terrorism whenever and wherever they occur. “America stands in solidarity with the people of London, and we will continue to keep the Finsbury Park community in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
06.12.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 12, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 One Year Later: Remembering the Victims of the Pulse Nightclub Shooting Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement on the anniversary of the Orlando Pulse nightclub tragedy: “Today, I join with my colleagues in Congress in reflecting on the tragic massacre that took place one year ago today at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida. My thoughts and prayers remain with the families and friends of the victims who in some cases may be still grieving. We understand that when the cameras leave and the media shifts its attention elsewhere, these loved ones are left alone and will often times spend many years coming to terms with such a horrific and senseless act of violence. On this day, we honor the lives of the victims and recommit ourselves to doing all that we can to unite our nation on the belief that all Americans are worthy of respect and dignity, and that no one should ever have to live in fear. “This past weekend, and in honor of LGBT Pride Month, I joined with thousands in Los Angeles to celebrate the progress that has been made and to resist all those who pose a threat to this community’s values of love, peace, acceptance, and inclusivity. Sadly, the Orlando shooting is a painful reminder of just how far we still must go in order to overcome the hatred and injustices that are still targeted towards the LGBT community. “As we reflect on the Orlando tragedy, let us also remember all the victims of homophobic violence in this country. Every American citizen has a responsibility to forcibly condemn such acts. I continue to stand in solidarity with the LGBT community as we fight for an inclusive society that guarantees equality and justice for all.” ###
06.08.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 8, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Rep. Waters Delivers Keynote Address at the 2017 Los Angeles Southwest College Commencement Joins LASC in Celebrating 50 Years of Service in the South Los Angeles Community LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) delivered a keynote address to the 2016 and 2017 graduates of Los Angeles Southwest College (LASC) during the college’s 2017 commencement ceremony on June 6th. “I am so honored to join the President, Board of Trustees, LA Southwest College Foundation Board, faculty, staff, and the greater Los Angeles community to celebrate the achievements of the 2016 and 2017 graduating classes,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “LASC is a college where hundreds of students choose to enroll every year in pursuit of an education and the training they need for their careers, and it has an outstanding track-record for preparing working adults, single parents, and other non-traditional students for the workforce; I am proud to represent LASC in the work that I do in the United States Congress.” The 2017 commencement recognized over 700 graduates from the Summer 2016, Fall 2016, and Spring 2017 classes. Congresswoman Waters highlighted the achievements of four members of the graduating classes during her address: Valedictorian, Soraida Saballos-Rodas, a 25 year old Los Angeles native who maintained a 3.959 grade-point average. Salutatorian, Claudia Perez, a 44 year old resident of Gardena who maintained a 3.955 grade-point average. The youngest candidate for graduation, Kelechi Udeze, a 15 year old Middle College High School student who maintained a 3.870 grade-point average. The oldest candidate for graduation, Frances Harris , a 72 year old candidate for a transfer degree in Psychology who also received a degree in Liberal Arts in fall 2014 from LASC. “These four graduates are just a few examples of the strength and resilience of LASC students,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I celebrate you today not because of your failures, but because you succeeded in spite of all odds stacked against you. Every time you fell, you got back up -- never forgetting who you were and what you set out to achieve by enrolling in this college.” In honor of the commencement theme, “50 Years of Breaking Barriers and Building Futures,” Congresswoman Waters paid homage to the legacy of many unsung heroes in LASC’s history, most notably Mrs. Odessa Cox, LASC’s founder. Cox and her advocacy group, the South Central Junior College Committee, began petitioning in 1950 for the Los Angeles Unified School Board (LAUSB) to open a community college in South Los Angeles. Emphasizing their resilience, the Congresswoman stressed the meaning of their decades-long journey and pivotal events, such as the Watts Riots of 1965, which served as catalysts for the LAUSB to take action. Congresswoman Waters also reflected on the work of LASC administrators and community leaders “who shaped the educational experience that so many receive today.” They included former President Dr. Thomas G. Lakin, former Vice President Dr. Ned Doffoney, and former College Dean Dr. Earnestine Thomas-Robertson; founder and president of LA Southwest College Village People, Dolores Sheen; founding pioneer of LASC and leader of the city’s rebuilding efforts in the aftermath of the Watts Riots, Lillian Mobley; and LA Southwest College Foundation Board Members and local business leaders, Karim Webb and Gene Hale. Addressing the graduates, Congresswoman Waters urged that “the same fire and unrelenting passion that led so many to fight for your education, is the same dedication and resilience that each of you must leverage to fight your own battles in your lives and careers. My desire is that you too will hold your heads up high, stay focused on the concerns of your community, and continue to make sure you have the knowledge needed to fight to make a difference.” ###
06.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 2, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters Joins Gardena GTrans Zero-Emission Bus Deployment Event LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters joined Gardena Mayor Tasha Cerda, Director of Transportation Ernie Crespo, and California Energy Commissioner Janea Scott to celebrate the deployment of the Gardena GTrans system’s five newly converted zero-emissions buses. “It is my distinct pleasure to celebrate this exciting new project for the City of Gardena’s GTrans system,” said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. “Not only do these repowered buses provide a cleaner, quieter ride for customers in the community, but the project itself helps reduce emissions and energy costs, and advances a new technology in the transit industry.” Gardena’s GTrans system was awarded a $2.7 million grant by the California Energy Commission’s Alternative and Renewable Fuel and Vehicle Technology Program (ARFVTP) to convert five of their existing hybrid gasoline-electric powered buses to battery-electric propulsion systems that produce zero emissions. The conversion, which began in 2016, supports the City of Gardena’s mission to improve local air quality and provide Gardena citizens with workforce development and job opportunities in the green economy. “I appreciate all of the California Energy Commission’s efforts to reduce energy costs and reduce the environmental impacts of energy use, while ensuring a safe, resilient, and reliable supply of energy,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I am particularly proud of the fact that the benefits of this project extend not only to residents in our community here in Gardena, but those in neighboring communities in and around the 43rd District as well.” Each bus contains a new zero-emission propulsion system (ZEPS) created by a local manufacturer, Complete Coach Works, which employs over 350 technicians, engineers and support staff in Riverside, California. CALSTART also manages the data collection and analysis for the propulsion system, making the GTrans project a promising job-creator for the state of California. “I believe transit is a vital public service, and I want to make sure it advances and thrives to support our communities in California and across the United States,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I am proud to stand with GTrans and support its work in expanding public transit, while reducing harmful emissions and ensuring a more sustainable future for our communities.” ###
06.02.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 2, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Rep. Waters Statement on the Terrorist Bombing in Afghanistan Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the terrorist attack in Kabul, Afghanistan: “I was devastated to learn about the terrorist bombing in Kabul that killed at least 90 people and wounded 400 more. This horrific attack took place in a crowded area of the city at the height of the morning rush hour, while commuters were going to work, women were shopping, and children were going to school. My heart goes out to all of the victims and their families as they struggle to recover from this terrible act of violence. “This ruthless attack is another example of the cowardice and cruelty of terrorists who target innocent civilians in an effort to make people afraid to go about their daily lives. Such brutal acts of violence are unacceptable and must be condemned in the harshest possible terms wherever and whenever they occur. “America stands in solidarity with the people of Afghanistan, and we will keep them in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
06.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 1, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Rep. Maxine Waters’ Statement on Reports that President Trump may Reverse Sanctions and Return Compounds to Russia Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to reports that Donald Trump may reverse sanctions imposed on Russia and give back properties the Obama administration forced the Russians to vacate as punishment for Russia’s interference in the 2016 election: “I am stunned by the audacity of this President that he would dare reverse any form of the punishments imposed on Russia for election meddling when he and members of his team are under scrutiny for coordinating with Russian operatives to undermine our democracy. “For those keeping track, this President fired the FBI director who was investigating his campaign’s ties to Russia, admitted on national television that he did so because of his dissatisfaction with said investigation, met with Russian officials the next day during which he gave them classified information, and still to this day refuses to fully acknowledge the intelligence community’s conclusion that Russia interfered in the 2016 election to help him prevail. This all comes as we learn more each day about the types of conversations Trump’s Kremlin Klan had with the Russian ambassador – conversations that they were all so anxious to conceal from public scrutiny. “Last week, Trump’s National Economic Council Director Gary Cohn reportedly said the President is ‘looking at’ changes to the economic sanctions imposed on Russia (The Hill 5/25/17). As I have long said, I strongly suspect this is all about the sanctions. The Russians want the sanctions lifted; and they, along with so many in Trump’s camp, possibly including Secretary of State Rex Tillerson, who previously served as CEO of ExxonMobil and negotiated a multi-billion dollar deal with Russia to drill in the Russian Arctic, could stand to make a lot of money if the United States lifts them. “In addition to reports that the administration is considering lifting the economic sanctions, the Washington Post is now reporting that the Trump administration is considering giving back to the Russians a 14-acre estate in Long Island, New York, and what is described as a ‘luxurious’ 45-acre property in Maryland, both of which were previously used as diplomatic compounds and believed to be used by the Russians for intelligence purposes. The Obama administration ordered the Russians to vacate those compounds late last year as punishment for Russia’s interference in the 2016 election. Those compounds had enjoyed diplomatic immunity, which meant that U.S. law enforcement could not enter and activities that took place there could escape U.S. prosecution. If the reports are true and Donald Trump intends to reverse Obama era punishments for Russia’s meddling in the election as well as Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, then you can be sure that I will fight tooth and nail to stop him. “There is a reason that Donald Trump will never criticize Vladimir Putin. There is a reason so many people serving in Donald Trump’s administration or connected to Donald Trump's campaign have ties to Russia. There is a reason Trump met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in response to Putin’s request.[1] There is a reason that Donald Trump’s son-in-law and advisor Jared Kushner met with a Russian banker, and there is a reason Kushner, former Trump National Security Advisor Mike Flynn, Attorney General Jeff Sessions, and Trump’s former campaign advisor Carter Page hid their meetings with the Russian ambassador. There is a reason that, even after being caught in a lie about meeting with the Russian ambassador once, it now appears that Jeff Sessions failed to come clean and reveal yet another previously undisclosed meeting with Ambassador Kislyak.[2] “I am so thoroughly disgusted with this presidency. I will fight day and night to hold Trump accountable. I would ask all patriots in Congress who swore an oath to the Constitution to join me in protecting our democracy.” ### [1]https://www.politico.com/magazine/story/2017/05/10/james-comey-firing-trump-lavrov-putin-215124 [2] https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/31/politics/congress-investigating-jeff-sessions-russian-ambassador-meeting/
06.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 1, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Rep. Waters on Trump’s Treatment of our Democratic Allies Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today regarding Donald Trump’s first foreign trip as President of the United States: “I am appalled by Donald Trump’s continued castigation of countries that are considered our closest and most trusted allies among Western democracies. It should offend all patriotic Americans that this President continues to insult German Chancellor Angela Merkel while striking a more conciliatory tone with autocratic governments like Russia whose government is actively working to undermine democracy throughout Europe and in the United States. Make no mistake, Donald Trump’s election was a victory for the Kremlin, and each day he remains in office bashing our institutions, offending our democratic allies, and undermining US leadership around the world, advances Putin’s long-term geopolitical objectives. Even if Trump isn’t Putin’s puppet outright, his hubris, disregard for the truth, and apparent disdain for the press and democracy has the same effect. “Following Trump’s disastrous trip to Europe, French President Macron compared Trump to Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan.[1] German Chancellor Angela Merkel announced that Europe can no longer rely on the United States as an ally.[2] Thomas Opperman, the leader of Germany’s opposition Social Democratic Party, said Germany should reconsider sharing intelligence with the United States, because Trump's handling of classified information is a ‘security risk for the West’.[3] Meanwhile, Israeli Defense Minister Avigdor Liberman announced that Israel is also changing the way it shares intelligence with the United States[4] following Trump’s White House meeting, during which he divulging classified information to Russian officials – Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and Ambassador Sergey Kislyak. “Donald Trump’s treatment of our NATO allies stands in sharp contrast to his conciliatory and deferential tone in Saudi Arabia, where he took a bow before King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. This follows Trump’s statement that he would be honored to meet North Korean dictator Kim Jong Un, whom he called a ‘smart cookie.’[5] Trump has also invited Filipino autocrat Rodrigo Duterte to the White House[6] and told him he was doing an ‘unbelievable job on the drug problem’ in the Philippines, where the government has brutally murdered thousands of suspected drug users.[7] “For as long as Trump remains in office, I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to preserve our international relationships and assure our allies that our democracy is strong and will survive Donald Trump’s brief presidency.” ### [1] https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/emmanuel-macron-donald-trump-russia-turkey-diplomacy-public-abuse-g7-handshake-recep-tayyip-erdogan-a7761841.html [2] https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/emmanuel-macron-donald-trump-russia-turkey-diplomacy-public-abuse-g7-handshake-recep-tayyip-erdogan-a7761841.html [3] https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/europe/germany-donald-trump-administration-secrets-intelligence-chatter-too-much-security-risk-west-thomas-a7761831.html [4] https://www.politico.eu/article/israel-changes-intelligence-sharing-with-us-after-trumps-revelations-to-russia/ [5] https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/01/politics/donald-trump-meet-north-korea-kim-jong-un/ [6] https://www.nytimes.com/2017/04/30/us/politics/trump-duterte.html?_r=0 [7] https://www.cnn.com/2017/05/24/politics/donald-trump-rodrigo-duterte-phone-call-transcript/
06.01.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 1, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Rep. Waters’ Statement on Reports Suggesting President Trump will Withdraw the US from the Paris Climate Agreement Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to reports that Donald Trump plans to withdraw the United States from the Paris agreement on climate change: “I am deeply troubled by reports suggesting that Donald Trump intends to pull the United States out of the Paris agreement on climate change. The United States played a leading role in the negotiation of this landmark agreement to confront one of the most urgent challenges to our planet, and it is shameful that this President would jeopardize the future of our children who will most certainly bear the brunt of climate change should we fail to act today. “The Paris agreement is the world's first comprehensive climate agreement, and it was painstakingly negotiated over several years by representatives of 195 sovereign countries. United States negotiators worked hard to ensure that China and India, two of the world’s largest producers of greenhouse gases, agreed to the deal and made robust commitments. Moreover, the New York Times recently reported that China and India are expected to easily exceed the targets they set for themselves, proving that American leadership was instrumental in developing a strong agreement that is well on its way to being implemented by the world community. “If Trump withdraws from the Paris agreement, it could cause the entire agreement to collapse, accelerating climate change and exacerbating its impacts on human communities, impacts which include deadly hurricanes, severe droughts, and rising sea levels. Trump’s rejection of science and his disdain for international agreements negotiated by previous American leaders are a threat to humanity’s future.” ###
05.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 24, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters: Why Does Trump Keep Attacking Working Families? Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to Donald Trump’s $4.1 trillion FY 2018 budget proposal, which he unveiled to the United States Congress yesterday: “I am appalled by Donald Trump’s continued attacks on millions of working families across the United States – including his most diehard supporters in rural and underserved communities – who would be utterly devastated by his proposed budget. Like so much of what we’ve come to understand about this President, all of his pledges last year to preserve and protect Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, and the social safety net that has protected our nation’s seniors were lies. Between his efforts to fast-track healthcare repeal and the budget proposal the White House released yesterday, it is clear Trump’s top priority is to advance tax breaks for millionaires and billionaires such as those populating his Cabinet and the upper ranks of his Administration. Those who thought that Donald Trump was going to fight for jobs, infrastructure, and affordable health coverage for all are in for a rude awakening. “Donald Trump’s budget makes drastic cuts to Social Security Disability Insurance, a critical part of the Social Security system that provides benefits to workers who become disabled after years of paying Social Security taxes on their earnings. The budget cuts a staggering $610 billion from Medicaid over the next ten years; and that is on top of the already devastating Medicaid cuts included in the Republican health bill, which were in excess of $800 billion. It cuts the National Institutes of Health by more than $7 billion – a cut of almost one-fifth of the agency’s budget – leaving medical researchers unable to find new treatments for life-threatening diseases like diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimer’s disease. “Trump’s budget is especially cruel to rural communities. It cuts nearly $50 billion over ten years from farm subsidies – some of the deepest cuts in 30 years – and slashes the Department of Agriculture’s budget by 21 percent. It slashes the Highway Trust Fund by nearly $100 billion over ten years, endangering safety on dilapidated roads and bridges in urban and rural communities alike and cutting important infrastructure investments, which Trump had promised to expand. “This budget will have a devastating impact on working families with children. It slashes $190 billion from nutritional assistance for hungry children and families. It robs students of $143 billion in student loans and financial aid over ten years, while cutting a staggering $9 billion from education for public school students in fiscal year 2018 alone. It will slash $40 billion from the Earned Income Tax Credit and the Child Tax Credit, which reduce the taxes of hard-working American families, while giving massive tax cuts to millionaires and billionaires like Donald Trump himself. “A president’s budget is the blueprint of a president’s priorities and values, and Donald Trump’s budget makes it glaringly clear that he does not care about hard-working Americans and their families.” ###
05.24.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 24, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters Honors Local Student Artists in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition Hawthorne, CA –Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) honored the 47 high school students in the 43rd Congressional District who participated in the 2017 Congressional Art Competition this month. The ceremony, which featured an exhibition of all the submissions, was held in the Venus Room of the Hawthorne Memorial Center. “I am so impressed by the remarkable talent and creativity expressed by the young people in the 43rd District who submitted their works of art in this year’s Congressional Art Competition,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I commend the students, their parents, and the teachers for all of the hard work that went into each piece, and I look forward to displaying the artwork in my Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles offices as well as on Capitol Hill.” The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nation-wide competition. The 2017 competition included submissions from students at 13 high schools in the 43rd Congressional District including: Ambassador High School, Bishop Montgomery High School, City Honors High School, ID8 Art and Design School, Lawndale High School, Leuzinger High School, Narbonne High School, North Torrance High School, Seoul Arts Academy, Sherry High School, Torrance High School, Washington Prep High School, and West High School. This year’s first place winner was Eddie Kim, a senior at Ambassador High School. His graphite pencil and watercolor drawing titled “Nostalgia” will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building for one year. He will also receive two plane tickets to attend the unveiling ceremony in Washington, D.C. in late June. Tammie Kim, a junior at Torrance High School, received the second place prize for her pencil and paint drawing titled “Our Father.” It will be displayed in Congresswoman Waters’ Capitol Hill office for one year. The third place prize was awarded to Ubaldo Alvarez Gomez, a senior at Leuzinger High School. His pencil drawing titled “I Have a Dream” will be displayed in Congresswoman Waters’ Los Angeles office for one year. At the judges’ request, a fourth place winner was also chosen and the honor went to Wendy Rodriguez Aquilar, a freshman at Lawndale High School, for her pastel painting titled “The Promise of Tomorrow.” Her piece will also be displayed in Congresswoman Waters’ Los Angeles office for one year. For more information about the 2017 Congressional Art Competition please visit https://waters.house.gov/services/art-competition. ###
05.23.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 23, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel or Rykia Dorsey Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on the Bombing in Manchester, England Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the terrorist attack at a concert in Manchester, England: “I am deeply saddened by the horrific bombing in Manchester that killed at least 22 people including an 8-year-old girl. This callous attack was obviously designed to kill large numbers of innocent people while they were enjoying a concert with their families and friends. My heart goes out to all of the victims and their families as they recover from this senseless act of violence. “Let us also remember the many innocent people around the world whose lives have been destroyed by violent terrorists. Such ruthless individuals use horrific and unconscionable methods to incite fear in peaceful communities. It is my sincere hope that the international community can work together to oppose acts of terrorism, wherever they may occur. “America stands in solidarity with the people of Manchester, and we will keep them in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
05.16.2017	Congresswoman Waters: How Low Can Trump Go? Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today upon learning that the President may have revealed classified information during a meeting with Russian officials: “To express shock over last night’s revelations would imply that at some point in the past I expected more from this President. At this juncture, the only question remaining is how low can he go? How much lower can this President drag our democracy, our institutions and the office of the President? How much more reckless can he be with the power that he wields? More importantly, how long will so-called ‘patriotic’ Republicans participate in this charade and moral race to the bottom? “For those keeping track, the Kremlin interfered in the 2016 election to help Donald Trump win – a conclusion made by the U.S. intelligence community that President Trump has refused to acknowledge. The former FBI director confirmed that Trump’s campaign is being investigated for colluding with Russians to undermine our democracy. After the director reportedly requested additional resources to pursue the Russia investigation, the President, whose campaign is the subject of the investigation, fired the FBI director. Moreover, the President acted in consultation with the Attorney General, who was supposed to be recused from all matters related to that investigation. Not to be outdone by one debacle, the President then met with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in the White House, excluded the U.S. press, and was subsequently exposed to have disclosed classified information to high ranking officials of an adversarial foreign government. “Donald Trump is doing his best to make the case for gross incompetence as an impeachable offense. Every day he remains in office is an affront to the cornerstone principles that have made the United States the greatest country on earth.” ###
05.09.2017	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE May 9, 2017 Contact: Rykia Dorsey Email: Rykia.Dorsey@mail.house.gov Phone: (202) 225-2201 Rep. Waters: Republicans Must Join in the Call for an Independent Commission without Delay Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to breaking news that President Donald Trump fired FBI Director James Comey: “Donald Trump should follow his FBI Director out of the door and restore credibility to the White House. Further, that Trump would hang his decision to fire James Comey on Attorney General Jeff Sessions -- a man who delivered false testimony before the U.S. Senate and then had to recuse himself from all matters regarding the Trump-Russia investigation -- is as ridiculous as the letter Trump is planning to have sent to Senator Lindsey Graham certifying that he has no business ties to Russia. Trump could shed light on this question simply by releasing his tax returns, not a meaningless letter from his lawyer. “Trump’s phony concern for the FBI and rule of law is laughable. Donald Trump has undermined the rule of law at every turn. When he's not bullying the intelligence community, federal judges, and his predecessor from his Twitter account, he is sending his operatives out to proliferate lies and falsehoods all while denying the very serious questions about his campaign's communication and possible collusion with Russians to undermine the election. “Even more troubling is Donald Trump’s clear pattern of firing people who are closing in on him or his Administration’s questionable conduct. When Sally Yates warned the White House about Mike Flynn possibly being compromised by Russians and refused to enforce Trump’s disastrous travel ban, she was fired. After Preet Bharara was asked by outside groups to investigate Trump’s foreign business deals, he was fired. Now mere weeks after the FBI Director confirmed that he was investigating Trump’s campaign and possible collusion with Russians to undermine our democracy, he was fired. This is all an outrage and unacceptable. “FBI Director Comey had no credibility, but he was in good company in an Administration that lies as a matter of policy. The Trump Administration cannot be trusted with the Russia investigation. Jeff Sessions cannot be trusted with the Russia investigation. The Republicans in Congress cannot be trusted with the Russia investigation. The only way that we will ever get to the bottom of what happened in the 2016 election is through an independent commission. Republicans truly committed to integrity and the rule of law must join in this effort without delay.” ###
05.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, introduced the Minority Diabetes Initiative Act (H.R. 2351). This bill will establish an initiative to provide grants to physicians and community-based organizations for diabetes prevention, care and treatment programs in minority communities. The bill is supported by 48 of the Congresswoman’s congressional colleagues. “Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, and it is having a severe impact on minority communities,” said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), among adults at least twenty years of age, 7.6 percent of non-Hispanic white Americans, 9.0 percent of Asian Americans, 12.8 percent of Hispanic Americans, 13.2 percent of African Americans, and 15.9 percent of American Indians/Alaska Natives have been diagnosed with diabetes. “Diabetes can lead to serious and sometimes deadly complications, including high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, blindness, kidney disease, nerve damage, and lower-limb amputations,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Minorities with diabetes often lack access to quality health care and are more likely to suffer from complications and even die from diabetes.” The CDC calculated that compared to non-Hispanic whites, Hispanics are 40 percent more likely to die from diabetes; African Americans are twice as likely to die from diabetes; and American Indians/Alaska Natives are almost twice as likely to die from the disease. The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will provide grants for a variety of diabetes-related health services, including public education on diabetes prevention and control, routine health care for diabetic patients, eye care, foot care and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes. “The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will help reduce the incidence of diabetes among minorities and enable those affected to live healthy and productive lives,” said Congresswoman Waters. ###
05.04.2017	Waters on Trumpcare: Desperate & Pathetic Attempt for a Victory at the Expense of Americans Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the passage of the American Health Care Act, also known as “Trumpcare”, in the U.S. House of Representatives: “I am disgusted by today’s passage of Republicans’ Obamacare repeal bill in the U.S. House of Representatives. Donald Trump campaigned on repealing Obamacare, and Republicans have had over seven years to present healthcare legislation that they claimed would be better than Obamacare. After their embarrassing failure to produce a plan and unite their caucus in March, they are now so desperate to secure a legislative victory that they jammed through a half-baked bill that will jeopardize the lives of millions of Americans. This is a heartless and malicious ploy by Trump and his Republican allies in Congress, and they will all pay the price with their constituents. “Trumpcare will cause 24 million Americans to lose their health coverage, slash Medicaid by $880 billion, and gut protections for Americans with pre-existing conditions. It will impose a crushing age tax on older Americans, many of whom live on fixed incomes and have serious health issues, making their premiums five times higher than what others pay for the same coverage. And to make matters worse, as Trumpcare forces families to pay higher premiums and deductibles, it will simultaneously provide $600 billion in tax cuts for large corporations and the wealthiest families in this country – a move that Trump and House Republicans have conveniently hidden in the text of their bill. “How many times did Donald Trump promise that he would come up with a ‘new’ and ‘better’ health care plan? How many times did he ensure Americans that his plan would have a ‘lesser cost’? How many times did he reiterate that there would be ‘insurance for everybody’? The bill that Trump negotiated, and House Republicans passed today, proves once again that Trump is nothing but a liar and a con man who only wants one thing – a cheap victory for himself and the wealthiest people in this country – and he couldn’t care less if that victory comes at the expense of millions of hard-working Americans and their families. “I am thoroughly outraged by the passage of such a reckless and ill-conceived bill that will hurt so many Americans. I stand with Congressional Democrats as we fight to stop this bill from passing the Senate and hold House Republicans accountable for this catastrophic assault on low- and middle-income families across this nation.”
05.02.2017	Waters to Trump: If you hate the Constitution so much, resign! Washington, D.C.—Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s criticisms of the rules of the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives during a Fox News interview where he called them an “archaic system” that is a “bad thing for the country”: “It is a sad day in America when the person who swore to defend the Constitution of the United States as our nation’s Chief Executive attacks the cornerstone principles of our democracy and calls them ‘archaic’. President Donald Trump’s reckless comments don’t exist in a vacuum; they are what we have come to expect given the unprecedented attacks he’s made on other democratic institutions in this county throughout his disastrous first 100 days in office. “When Donald Trump’s ill-conceived and unconstitutional travel ban was stopped by the courts, he attacked the judges. Whenever members of the press fact-check his lies and report on his inconsistent policy positions and conflicts of interest, he calls them ‘fake news’ and enemies of the people. When the intelligence community and the FBI reveal information about Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and advance investigations into his campaign’s many ties to Russia and Vladimir Putin, he reduces their efforts to a ‘witch hunt’. Even his own party has not been spared, as he will often use Twitter to attack or threaten any person or institution that challenges him – that is of course when he isn’t endorsing Trump properties or promoting Fox News. “I find Donald Trump’s apparent contempt for our democracy and democratic institutions especially troubling in light of his glowing admiration of brutal autocrats like Rodrigo Duterte of the Philippines and Recep Tayyip Erdoğan of Turkey as well as his unwavering respect and deference to Vladimir Putin and the Kremlin. He needs to understand that he does not get to unilaterally change the rules of our democracy just because he finds them inconvenient or standing in the way of his agenda. Donald Trump needs to understand that he is not a king, that the United States is not his monarchy, and that our Constitution will most certainly outlast his presidency. “I remain deeply disturbed by this dangerous man who continues to denigrate our country, our Constitution, and the Office of the Presidency. His comments are a disgrace and prove once again why he is fundamentally unfit to serve in our nation’s highest office. Since he recently confessed to Reuters that being President is more challenging than he anticipated and that he misses his old life, I would invite him to do himself and the country a favor and resign.”
04.19.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, called for robust funding for Alzheimer’s research and patient support programs in fiscal year 2018. The funding requests were included in four letters to leaders of the House Committee on Appropriations, which were signed by many of the Congresswoman’s congressional colleagues. Congresswoman Waters’ first letter requested a $414 million increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), for a total appropriation of $1.805 billion in fiscal year 2018 for research on Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. The Congresswoman’s letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 104 Members of Congress. “Alzheimer’s is a tragic disease affecting millions of Americans, and it has reached crisis proportions,” said Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues in the letter. “There is no effective treatment, no means of prevention, and no method for slowing the progression of the disease. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), five million Americans were living with Alzheimer’s disease in the year 2013. This number is expected to almost triple to 14 million by the year 2050.” The full text of the letter can be viewed online here. Congresswoman Waters’ second letter requested $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program, a Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly find persons with Alzheimer’s disease who wander away from their homes and reunite them with their families. This small, cost-effective program received only $750,000 in fiscal year 2015 and no funds at all in fiscal years 2016 or 2017. The Congresswoman’s letter was signed by 55 Members of Congress. “This program protects the safety of thousands of Americans affected by Alzheimer’s disease and brings peace-of-mind to their families,” said the Congresswoman’s letter. “It also saves time for law enforcement officials and allows them to focus on other security concerns.” The full text of the letter can be viewed online here. In addition, Congresswoman Waters joined Rep. Christopher Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, as co-leader of a letter recommending an appropriation of $13.4 million for the Alzheimer’s Disease Supportive Services Program, which provides competitive grants to states to expand evidence-based interventions to help persons with dementia and their caregivers. This letter was signed by 25 Members of Congress. Finally, Congresswoman Waters joined Rep. Christopher Smith as co-leader of a letter requesting $15 million for the Peer Reviewed Alzheimer’s Research Program, which funds innovative research at the Department of Defense. This letter was signed by 38 Members of Congress. ###
04.18.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a congressional leader on HIV/AIDS issues, called for increases in funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs in fiscal year 2018. The proposed increases were included in two letters to leaders of the House Committee on Appropriations, which were signed by many of the Congresswoman’s congressional colleagues. Congresswoman Waters’ first letter requested an appropriation of $610 million in fiscal year 2018 for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was established under Congresswoman Waters’ leadership in 1998 to address the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS on racial and ethnic minorities. The Minority AIDS Initiative targets funds for HIV/AIDS prevention, screening, treatment, education, and outreach to minority communities heavily impacted by HIV/AIDS. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, the initiative received $427.1 million in FY 2016 and was projected to receive $426.3 million in FY 2017. The letter was signed by a total of 80 Members of Congress, led by Congresswoman Waters. “Racial and ethnic minorities continue to be severely and disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS in the United States,” said Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues in the letter. “Minorities represent the majority of new HIV infections, people living with HIV/AIDS, and deaths among people with HIV/AIDS.” The full text of the letter can be found online here: FY 2018 Minority AIDS Initiative sign-on letter Congresswoman Waters also joined Reps. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Jerrold Nadler (D-NY) as a co-leader of a letter urging appropriators to increase funding for several domestic HIV/AIDS programs. The letter requests increases in funding for HIV/AIDS care and treatment through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, HIV prevention programs, and HIV/AIDS research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This letter was signed by 96 Members of Congress and can be found online here: FY 2018 Ryan White sign-on letter “With more than one million Americans living with HIV/AIDS, Members of Congress must take every opportunity to support the research, prevention, screening, and treatment of this disease,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Our call for robust funding will better support at-risk communities and bring us closer to finally defeating HIV and AIDS.” Congresswoman Waters has been a consistent advocate for HIV/AIDS response efforts throughout her tenure in Congress. In 1998, she spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative and in subsequent years has continued to advocate for its robust funding. On April 4, 2017, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act of 2017 (H.R. 1882) to provide for an effective HIV/AIDS program in federal prisons; the bill has 33 original cosponsors. ###
04.12.2017	Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, issued a statement in response to the Trump Administration’s inconsistent statements on Syria, following the administration’s airstrikes against a Syrian airfield. Her statement follows: Donald Trump’s incoherent strategy on Syria is threatening our national security. Comments from the Trump Administration reveal the complete lack of a coherent strategy, and in some cases, an appalling ignorance of history, confounding both America’s allies and adversaries. There is widespread confusion about whether this administration plans to seek regime change in Syria, focus on defeating ISIS, use military force only in response to the use of chemical weapons, or intervene anywhere in the world to protect civilians. Trump’s personal comments on Syria have been dangerously inconsistent. Throughout his presidential campaign, he took a hardline, anti-interventionist approach to America’s role in the world, and he announced in his inaugural address, “From this day forward it’s going to be only America First.” Then last week, Trump suddenly and unilaterally decided to launch airstrikes against a Syrian airfield – without consulting Congress – in response to Bashar al-Assad’s use of chemical weapons on “innocent babies.” If Trump had been receiving daily intelligence briefings like most Presidents do, or even if he had been reading news coverage on subjects other than himself, he would have known long before he was sworn in that Assad was killing innocent babies. As early as August 2013, when President Obama was considering military action in Syria in response to a chemical weapons attack that killed more than 1,400 civilians, Donald Trump tweeted, “President Obama, do not attack Syria. There is no upside and tremendous downside.” Prior to Assad’s April 4, 2017 attack, the administration seemed willing to ignore Assad’s repeated attacks on civilians and allow him to remain in power indefinitely, while the administration focused on defeating ISIS. Now administration officials are suggesting they may try to remove him from office. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson has contradicted himself over the past week, saying at one point, “We rededicate ourselves to holding to account any and all who commit crimes against the innocents anywhere in the world.” At another point he said, “We’re asking and calling on Bashar al-Assad to cease the use of these weapons...Other than that, there is no change to our military posture.” Tillerson also implied that the United States does not care about Putin’s aggression in Ukraine, when he asked in a meeting with our European allies, “Why should U.S. taxpayers be interested in Ukraine?” U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley said, “There is no political solution that any of us can see with Assad at the lead.” Meanwhile, Sean Spicer revealed his appalling ignorance of history, when he announced that Adolf Hitler “didn't even sink to using chemical weapons” during World War II. Trump’s incoherent policy on Syria has been compounded by his repeated praise for Vladimir Putin and his unwillingness to personally condemn Putin’s support of Assad, despite the fact that Assad has been murdering civilians for many years with the support of the Kremlin. Yesterday, Trump belatedly admitted that Putin is “backing...an evil person.” Trump’s unexpected expression of compassion for Syrian “babies” is blatantly inconsistent with one of his first actions as President – the indefinite ban he tried to impose on the admission of Syrian refugees into the United States. As I said at that time, the Trump Administration’s refugee ban was especially deplorable. It targeted women, men, and children who were fleeing brutal repression, and who were hoping to find freedom in the United States of America. While the President’s ban on the admission of refugees and immigrants from Syria and six other Muslim countries was overturned by the courts, the President has yet to show any sympathy for the Syrian people who are trying to escape Assad’s repression. If the President cares so much about Syrian babies, why not give some of them refuge in the United States? The President’s proposed budget for fiscal year 2018 reflects his lack of compassion for Syrian refugees and his lack of interest in developing coherent strategies to deal with Syria and other international crises. Trump’s budget cuts funding for the State Department and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) by $17 billion, which equates to 31 percent of these agencies’ budgets. These cuts would devastate programs that assist Syrian refugees, as well as others who are fleeing violence and repression around the world. In addition, the budget completely eliminates funding for the U.S. Institute of Peace. We cannot trust Trump to develop a well thought out response to the crisis in Syria. Congress must reconvene to develop a coherent strategy for responding to this crisis – a strategy that includes careful diplomacy, consistent statements about American intentions, coordination with our allies, efforts to protect refugees, and a budget that funds humanitarian assistance programs and reflects American values and compassion.
04.05.2017	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, urged expansion of the TIGER transportation program in a letter dated April 4th to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations. TIGER is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies like the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro). Previous TIGER grants helped to finance the construction of Metro’s Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor, which will serve the Congresswoman’s district. Congresswoman Waters’ letter urges an appropriation of $1.25 billion for TIGER in fiscal year 2018, in order to expand job creation and repair critical transportation infrastructure nationwide. TIGER received $500 million in fiscal year 2016. The letter was signed by a total of 140 Members of Congress, led by Congresswoman Waters. The full text of the letter can be seen below and found online here: https://waters.house.gov/sites/waters.house.gov/files/2017%20TIGER%20Sign-on%2004-04-17.pdf Dear Chairman Diaz-Balart and Ranking Member Price: We write to request that you support job creation through infrastructure investment by providing $1.25 billion for the TIGER program in the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2018. TIGER – formally known as Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery – is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies. The TIGER program funds projects that will have a significant regional impact and deliver benefits in five critical national objectives, including safety, economic competitiveness, state of good repair, quality of life, and environmental sustainability. The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) just released its report card on our nation’s infrastructure and gave our country a grade of “D+”. ASCE estimates that we will need to invest $4.59 trillion by 2025 in order to repair our infrastructure. Robust funding for TIGER will help to bring our nation’s transportation infrastructure into the 21st century. TIGER grants have helped to finance a wide variety of innovative projects building and repairing roads, bridges, public transit systems, ports, rail lines, and bicycle and pedestrian networks. Moreover, TIGER encourages cooperation between agencies and jurisdictions and often funds multi-modal, multi-jurisdictional projects that are difficult to support through traditional transportation programs. Safe, efficient transportation networks benefit the economy by facilitating the movement of goods and services and benefit individuals and communities by improving access to work, school, health facilities, shopping, and entertainment opportunities. We therefore urge you to provide $1.25 billion for TIGER grants in FY 2018. We appreciate your attention to our concerns. ###
04.04.2017	Congresswoman Waters Reintroduces the Stop AIDS in Prison Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee and a Congressional leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS, reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act today (H.R. 1882). This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. The bill has 33 original cosponsors. “The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other people in the community following their release from prison,” said Congresswoman Waters. There is no current information regarding the incidence of HIV/AIDS in federal prisons. However, the Department of Justice reported in 2009 that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons was 2.5 times higher than in the general population. The Department of Justice also reported that 1.5% of male inmates and 1.9% of female inmates were HIV positive or had confirmed AIDS. “We need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society,” said Congresswoman Waters. “That includes our nation’s prison system.” In 2009, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429 in the 111th Congress) passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote. However, the Senate did not complete action on the bill prior to adjournment. “I have introduced this bill several times over the years, and while it has never made it to the President’s desk, it has focused attention on the problem of HIV/AIDS in our nation’s prisons,” said Congresswoman Waters. “As a result, President Barack Obama’s National HIV/AIDS Strategy, which was released in 2010, required the Bureau of Prisons to take steps to address the effects of HIV/AIDS within the prison population.” Congresswoman Waters has also been a leader of congressional efforts to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among racial and ethnic minorities. In 1998, she worked with members of the Congressional Black Caucus and officials in the Clinton Administration to establish the Minority AIDS Initiative. That initiative provides grants to community-based organizations for HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, testing, and treatment programs serving minority communities. The initiative received an initial appropriation of $156 million in fiscal year 1999. Funding for it now amounts to more than $400 million per year. “I am proud that the Minority AIDS Initiative has strong support in Congress,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Every year, I circulate a letter to leaders of the House Appropriations Committee urging robust funding for the initiative in the coming fiscal year. Because of our efforts, the Minority AIDS Initiative received $427 million in fiscal year 2016. This year, 79 of my colleagues signed my letter. I am therefore confident that we can continue to ensure robust funding for this critical program, despite the prevailing atmosphere of fiscal austerity.” ###
03.24.2017	Congresswoman Waters Tells Republicans to Leave Trumpcare in the Trashcan Where it Belongs! Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, issued a statement after Speaker Paul Ryan cancelled the vote on “Trumpcare,” Republicans’ bill to overhaul our nation’s health system, which had been scheduled for today in the House of Representatives. Her statement follows: “I am delighted that House Republicans have cancelled their vote on Trumpcare, and I am so proud of my Democratic colleagues, health care advocates, and constituents from around the United States for our steadfast opposition to this terrible bill! “Trumpcare would have caused 24 million Americans to lose their health coverage, slashed Medicaid by $880 billion, and caused millions of American families to pay more for less care. “For older Americans, Trumpcare would have caused premiums, deductibles, and co-payments to skyrocket! Those between the ages of 50 and 64 would have been forced to pay premiums five times higher than what others pay for the same coverage. This crushing age tax would have fallen on some of the most vulnerable members of our society, including people on fixed incomes and people who have serious health problems. “I was especially appalled by the Republicans’ unconscionable attempt to hide a huge tax break for billionaires inside their so-called health legislation. Trumpcare would have given $600 billion in tax cuts to large corporations and wealthy people, including $2.8 billion to the 400 richest families in America. “Despite the Republicans’ best efforts to hide Trumpcare’s tax cut from the American people, they could not hide the fact that Trumpcare was a ruthless assault on working families. “I urge my Republican colleagues to leave Trumpcare in the trashcan where it belongs.” ###
03.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.), along with Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), reintroduced the bipartisan Private Property Rights Protection Act, which would provide American citizens with the means to protect their private property from inappropriate claims of eminent domain. Under this legislation, if a state or political subdivision of a state uses its eminent domain power to transfer private property to other private parties for the purpose of economic development, the state would be ineligible for federal economic funds for two fiscal years following a judicial determination that the law has been violated. Additionally, the federal government would be prohibited from using eminent domain for economic development purposes. Congressman Sensenbrenner: “The freedom to own and protect one’s private property is foundational to our country. Congress must fight to protect the private property rights of Americans and reform the use and abuse of eminent domain. Under our newly unified government, I’m hopeful this legislation will pass and restore the government’s power of eminent domain to its limited, proper role. Congresswoman Waters: “Few policies have done more to destroy community and opportunity for minorities than eminent domain. Between 3 and 4 million Americans, most of them ethnic minorities, have been forcibly displaced from their homes as a result of urban renewal takings since World War II. It is my hope that together we can protect the rights of vulnerable people through by curbing eminent domain abuses through this legislation.”
03.21.2017	For Immediate Release March 21, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel Phone: (202) 225-2201 E-mail: Twaun.Samuel@mail.house.gov Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to the House Intelligence Committee’s public hearing on Russian Active Measures Investigation: “I think the American people now understand one reason why I believe FBI Director Comey has no credibility and why I’ve said that we need an independent commission to uncover the truth. Today, in publicly confirming the FBI is investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the Kremlin’s possible coordination with individuals associated with the Trump campaign, Director Comey also disclosed that the investigation has been ongoing since July 2016. Director Comey needs to answer one question: If he had information about the extent of Russia’s efforts to hack Donald Trump’s political opponents last July, why would he effectively advance their efforts by releasing a letter confirming a review of “newly uncovered” Clinton emails recovered from an unrelated investigation in October that turned out to reveal no new information? Why did special circumstances in that instance warrant the FBI Director publicly commenting on Clinton emails but not the fact that Russia was waging an attack on our democracy, possibly in coordination with individuals associated with the Trump campaign? “I believe that Director Comey bears some responsibility, along with the Russians, in adding to the confusion and misinformation campaign that led to the election of Donald Trump. Now, Director Comey presides over an FBI under a Department of Justice headed by an Attorney General who lied under oath, and both serve under a President who has shown he will stop at nothing to obstruct and distract from any credible investigations of his campaign’s ties to Russia. “Even more troubling, based on the House Intel Republicans’ exclusive focus during today’s hearing on the leaks and not the Russian cyberattacks, it is clear to me that the House Intelligence Committee under the leadership of Chairman Nunes cannot be trusted to thoroughly investigate this matter. In fact, the Republicans’ questioning was more in line with President Trump’s incendiary tweets than the actual intelligence the members received from the public servants charged with ensuring our national security. Republicans must remember that Russia is not our ally and they better believe that the Russians and Putin would order a cyberattack on Republicans if it suited their geopolitical goals. Given the political motivations driving the White House and Republicans in Congress, we need a bipartisan, independent commission to investigate the Russian interference in our election and possible collusion with the Trump campaign.” ###
03.17.2017	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on the President’s Budget, which Slashes EPA & Shuts Down CSB Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Torrance representative, released a statement today, after reviewing President Trump’s budget, which would shut down the Chemical Safety Board (CSB) and cut funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) by more than 31 percent. Her statement follows: “I am appalled by this budget that proposes to shut down the Chemical Safety Board, which is currently investigating the causes of a 2015 explosion at the Torrance Refinery. The safety of the community surrounding this refinery is a very serious issue in my district. “As Congressman Ted Lieu and I said in a follow-up letter to the Chemical Safety Board on March 1st, ‘The explosion nearly resulted in a catastrophic disaster that could have released deadly modified hydrofluoric acid (MHF) into the South Bay communities surrounding the refinery. Such a release could have resulted in over 100,000 deaths or injuries. Exactly two years later, an incident and fire occurred again at the Torrance Refinery, adding to a growing list of problematic incidents since February 2015.’ “We cannot allow the safety of people who live and work around industrial facilities like the Torrance refinery to be undermined by a budget that eliminates this critical agency. “I am also appalled that the budget slashes funding for the Environmental Protection Agency by more than 31 percent. This would leave the EPA completely unable to protect our air and our water from pollution by refineries and other industrial facilities around the country.”
03.14.2017	Congresswoman Waters Slams Trumpcare After CBO Report Exposes Disastrous Impacts Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, issued a statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its report on House Republicans’ bill to overhaul our nation’s health system, which President Trump is trying to convince Members of Congress to support. Her statement follows: The CBO report on Trumpcare has proven that President Trump’s promise to replace the nation’s health system with a universal health plan was just another lie. Throughout his campaign, Donald Trump promised to repeal Obamacare and replace it with something better, while protecting Medicaid from cuts. As recently as January, Donald Trump promised, “We’re going to have insurance for everybody.” He also boasted, “We're gonna come up with a new plan that's going to be better health care for more people at a lesser cost.” By February, Trump declared, “Nobody knew health care could be so complicated,” essentially admitting that when he makes promises about health care, he does not know what he is talking about! Now he is shamelessly promoting a plan that would cause 24 million Americans to lose their health coverage, while providing a massive tax cut for billionaires. According to the CBO report, Trumpcare would almost double the ranks of the uninsured by 2026 and cause 14 million people to lose their health coverage in 2018 alone. The bill would also slash Medicaid by $880 billion over the next 10 years. Meanwhile, Trumpcare gives $600 billion in tax cuts to the wealthiest Americans and large corporations, including $2.8 billion to the 400 richest families in America. After all of Trump’s hollow promises, the cruel reality of the Republicans’ wretched health bill has been laid bare for all to see. Republicans are handing billionaires a deficit-busting tax break, but pushing 24 million Americans off their health care. For millions and millions of Americans, the Republican bill is a prescription to make you pay more for less. I will fight to stop this merciless assault on working families with every ounce of my strength. ###
03.10.2017	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement in Memory of Haitian President René Préval Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released a statement in memory of the former President of Haiti, René Préval, who died on March 3, 2017, and whose funerals services will be held in Haiti tomorrow. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader in Congress on issues related to Haiti. Following Haiti’s 2010 earthquake, Congresswoman Waters led congressional efforts to ensure the cancellation of Haiti’s international debts, which culminated in the passage of her bill, the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act of 2010 (H.R. 4573), which was signed into law by President Obama on April 26, 2010. Her statement follows: “My deepest sympathies are extended to the people of Haiti upon the death of former President René Préval. “President René Préval played a critical role in the history of Haiti. Quiet and unpretentious by nature, he did not seek power for its own sake. Instead, he sought to improve the lives of the people he served. From opening a bakery in 1988 that provided bread to poor children to leading the country through some of its darkest moments, President Préval cared deeply about the Haitian people. He rose from humble beginnings to become the first elected president in Haiti’s history to leave office after serving a full term. After spending the next five years in private life, he returned to public service to serve a second term, which coincided with one of the worst tragedies in modern history. “As a longtime friend of Haiti, I have traveled to Haiti numerous times, and I have always been inspired by the spirit of the Haitian people. However, I was never more moved than I was when I traveled to Haiti just thirteen days after the earthquake and witnessed the commitment of President René Préval and all of the Haitian people to help one another survive the disaster and rebuild their nation in the wake of seemingly insurmountable odds. President Préval was traumatized and heartbroken by the indescribable suffering of his people, but he did not allow himself to despair. Instead, he described in detail the tremendous needs of his people for assistance and asked me to take his message back to Washington with me. While the earthquake brought death and destruction to the people of Haiti, it did not break René Préval’s commitment to them. “President René Préval will always be remembered as a kind, generous, and dedicated public servant. It is my sincere hope that his friends and loved ones will be comforted by the memory of his love for them and for the Haitian people.” ###
03.08.2017	Congresswoman Waters Condemns Heartless Republican Obamacare Repeal Bill Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, issued a statement after reviewing House Republicans’ bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as “Obamacare.” The bill was released Monday night and is scheduled to be marked up today in two House committees. Her statement follows: I am outraged by the heartless Republican bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which leaves millions of Americans without access to affordable health care, while providing a massive tax cut for billionaires. President Trump’s support for this terrible bill is proof that he never intended to protect the programs that are critical to America’s working families and senior citizens, programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid. Yesterday, Trump referred to the Republican bill in a tweet as “Our wonderful new Healthcare Bill”. This Republican bill goes way beyond repealing Obamacare; it destroys Medicaid as we know it. It repeals the Medicaid expansion, which provided Medicaid coverage to 11 million people, and it harms millions of additional children, parents, people with disabilities, and seniors in nursing homes who have no other access to health care. According to a study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, the Republican bill would shift an estimated $370 billion in health care costs to states over the next ten years. If the states are unable or unwilling to pay this exorbitant expense, they would cut benefits or drop coverage for the people who need them the most. The Republican bill eliminates the requirement that health plans provide coverage for essential health benefits, and puts insurance companies back in charge of health care. The bill would let insurance companies deny coverage for such basic health services as preventive care, maternity care, child immunizations, mammograms, and mental health services. The Republican bill replaces Obamacare’s income-based subsidies with tax credits that would increase with age, leaving younger Americans of modest means unable to afford coverage. The tax credits would be capped at $4,000 per person for individuals over the age of 60, which would leave health coverage unaffordable for many older Americans as well. Meanwhile, insurance companies could increase premiums by 30 percent on people who experience a lapse in coverage, thus leaving many people unable to resume coverage when they need it. In addition, the Republican bill repeals the mandate on large employers to provide health insurance to their employees, giving companies an incentive to drop coverage for millions of workers and their families, and it completely defunds Planned Parenthood, leaving millions of American women without access to a trusted health provider in their community. While the Republicans dump huge health care costs on working families, they hand each of the 400 wealthiest families in America a tax break worth $7 million a year. This heartless bill will be one of the largest transfers of wealth from low- and middle-income families to the rich in recent memory. I am equally outraged by the undemocratic process the Republicans are using to ram this massive health care overhaul through Congress. They have not held a single hearing or heard testimony from a single witness, and they do not even have a cost estimate from the Congressional Budget Office. Yet they have already scheduled markups for today in both the Energy and Commerce Committee and the Ways and Means Committee, despite the fact that most Members of Congress have not even had 48 hours to read the bill! By contrast, House Democrats followed an open and transparent process to pass the Affordable Care Act in 2009 and 2010. We held 79 bipartisan hearings over two years and heard testimony from 181 witnesses representing diverse points of view, and we posted the text of the bill online 30 days before the first markup. This dangerous bill to dismantle our nation’s health care system will cut taxes for Donald Trump and the billionaires in his cabinet, but it will leave millions of American families without access to quality health care! ###
03.07.2017	For Immediate Release March 7, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel Phone: (202) 225-2201 E-mail: Twaun.Samuel@mail.house.gov Congresswoman Waters Slams Trump’s “Wiretap Meltdown” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s unfounded claims that President Obama wiretapped his phones: “The American public and press must not be distracted by yet another sideshow stunt orchestrated by a President who is unraveling at the seams. Do not be misled. Donald Trump is a compulsive liar who will say and do anything to distract from the very serious questions about his associates' and campaign's ties to Russia. Despite his efforts to stonewall and obstruct credible investigations, Donald Trump's lies are being exposed and each passing day brings new revelations to light. “For months, Donald Trump has claimed that his campaign and associates had no connections to Russia. And yet, we now know that several key individuals in his inner circle were in communication with Russian operatives and subsequently tried to obscure those meetings. Why would Jeff Sessions, Carter Page, and Mike Flynn conceal their meetings with the Russian Ambassador during a time when the intelligence community was warning US officials that Russians were interfering in our elections? Why would Jared Kushner then hide his meeting with Mike Flynn and the Russian Ambassador during the transition? Why did Donald Trump deny the intelligence community’s report on the Russian interference in the 2016 election, insult federal agents, and instead side with the Kremlin in denouncing what intelligence officials concluded about the Russian cyberattacks? Why has President Trump at every juncture shown more deference to the Kremlin than the American analysts and agents who serve and fight to protect this country every day? In my estimation, it is because Donald Trump has something to hide and doesn't want the American people to know the truth. “Despite his outlandish accusations against President Obama, the fact of the matter is an American President cannot unilaterally authorize a wiretap on anyone. For President Trump to ask for a congressional investigation based on his ridiculous claims is shameful and just another attempt to deflect attention from his ‘Kremlin Klan” and the investigations into his campaign’s ties to Russia. “Shame on this President and anyone around him who fuels and enables his lies and vitriol. The question now is for Republicans of conscience in the House and Senate. How long will they let this unhinged man wreak havoc on our democracy? That's not hyperbole. That is the stated objective of Trump’s closest advisor, Steve Bannon. Steve Bannon wants to break our system and I stand ready to fight him and Trump every step of the way.” ###
03.03.2017	Congresswoman Waters Demands Independent Investigation into President Trump’s Kremlin Klan; Condemns White House Interference Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, demanded an independent investigation into collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia in the hacking of the 2016 election. Her statement was released following an announcement by the House Intelligence Committee regarding the scope of their investigation. The Congresswoman’s statement follows: “I welcome Wednesday’s announcement by the House Intelligence Committee that Chairman Devin Nunes and Ranking Member Adam Schiff have approved the scope of investigation for the committee’s inquiry into Russian interference into the 2016 election, and that the investigation will seek to determine whether there were ‘links between Russia and individuals associated with political campaigns or any other U.S. Persons,’ and I especially applaud Ranking Member Schiff’s statement that the committee’s investigation must include ‘any potential collusion between Russia and U.S. citizens.’ “Nevertheless, I continue to have profound concerns about whether the House and Senate intelligence committees, under Republican leadership, are willing and able to conduct a thorough, bipartisan investigation into possible collusion between Russian operatives and the Trump campaign. My concerns were validated by reports that Chairman Nunes and Senate Intelligence Committee Chairman Richard Burr spoke with reporters to discredit New York Times’ reporting on the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russia in response to a request from the White House. “We now know that the Trump administration will do anything within its power to hide the truth about its ties with Russia. Attorney General Jeff Sessions – like Mike Flynn before him – spoke with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak and then lied about it. This follows revelations that White House aides including Chief of Staff Reince Priebus and Press Secretary Sean Spicer tried to enlist CIA Director Mike Pompeo and FBI officials, in addition to Chairman Nunes and Chairman Burr, to discredit the New York Times’ report. “For many months, I have argued that a thorough investigation is necessary in order to determine exactly what happened in the 2016 election and who is responsible. What did Mike Flynn, Jeff Sessions, and other Trump associates know about Russia’s efforts to interfere in the 2016 election? What did President Trump himself know? What sort of communications did Trump’s associates have with Russian operatives, and was Trump aware of them? Why does this President refuse to condemn or criticize Vladimir Putin in any way? Does Putin have compromising information on Trump, and does this information jeopardize our national security? “At one time, I believed that these critical questions could be investigated credibly by the House and Senate intelligence committees. I therefore introduced H.Con.Res. 15 in January, in order to ensure that these committees, in the course of their investigations, would determine whether there was collusion between persons associated with the Russian government and persons associated with President Trump and his campaign. However, having witnessed the Trump administration’s deplorable efforts to interfere in the work of the intelligence committees, I now believe that an independent investigation into President Trump’s Kremlin Klan is imperative. “Make no mistake, the truth will be revealed. If it is discovered that President Trump worked with Russia to undermine our democracy, Republicans in Congress should put country above party and move to impeach President Trump.” ###
03.01.2017	For Immediate Release March 1, 2017 Contact: Twaun Samuel Phone: (202) 225-2201 E-mail: Twaun.Samuel@mail.house.gov Congresswoman Waters Reiterates Call for Investigation of Trump’s Kremlin Klan during CBC Hearing Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, made a statement today reiterating her demand for a thorough investigation of possible collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government in the hacking of the 2016 election. The statement was made at a hearing on Capitol Hill entitled, “The White House, Russian Officials, and National Security,” which was organized by the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). Last month, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.Con.Res. 15, a resolution to investigate possible collusion between the Trump Campaign and Russia. Her resolution has 20 congressional cosponsors. The Congresswoman’s statement as prepared for delivery follows: I want begin by thanking the Chairman, Congressman Cedric Richmond, for organizing this very important panel today. I want to also thank the panelists for agreeing to share with us their knowledge and expertise. As some of you know, I have been covering this issue for many months, and I believe our panelists share my deep concerns about the many questions that continue to haunt the Trump Administration. From questions about the Emoluments Clause and problems presented by President Trump’s refusal to divest his business assets, to the ongoing questions about the communication, and possible collusion, between the Trump campaign and the Russian government while the latter was interfering in the 2016 election, the Trump Administration presents numerous Constitutional, ethical and national security challenges. A thorough congressional investigation into Russia’s interference in the election must seek answers to a broad range of questions surrounding the Trump campaign and its connections to the Russian government. What did President Trump know about Russia’s efforts to hack the 2016 election? What sort of communications did Trump’s associates have with Russian operatives, and was Trump aware of them? Why does this President refuse to condemn or criticize Vladimir Putin in any way? Does Putin have compromising information on Trump, and does this information jeopardize our national security? President Trump’s ties to Russia clearly warrant public and congressional scrutiny. That is why, in January, I introduced H.Con.Res. 15. This resolution states that Congress should expend the resources necessary to investigate thoroughly the nature and extent of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election and whether, and to what extent, there was collusion between persons associated with the Russian government and persons associated with President Trump and his campaign. I introduced this resolution because I was concerned about the extent to which the Intelligence Committees in the House and Senate could or would conduct a thorough investigation that was free from political influence and probed deeply into all of the connections between the Trump campaign and Russia. Both during his campaign and since his election, Trump has surrounded himself with a Kremlin Klan – people who have extensive ties to Vladimir Putin and the Russian government. Mike Flynn, Trump’s disgraced former National Security Advisor, resigned after it was revealed that he had discussed sanctions with Russian Ambassador Sergey Kislyak in December and then lied about it. Flynn has a long history of ties to the Russian government, including a paid speech at a party for RT, a Kremlin-funded TV station, where he was photographed sitting next to Vladimir Putin. Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign manager, was a paid lobbyist for Viktor Yanukovych, the pro-Russian politician in Ukraine who fled to Russia in 2014 and was subjected to U.S. sanctions related to Russian aggression in Ukraine. Manafort has also been involved in multimillion dollar business deals with Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs, which were reportedly the subject of an FBI inquiry. Manafort had to leave the Trump campaign when documents unearthed in Ukraine called attention to his work for the pro-Russia side in Russia’s conflict with Ukraine. Carter Page, one of Trump’s foreign policy advisors during his campaign, was a frequent guest on Russian state media and had a personal stake in Russian oil and gas interests that was reportedly worth millions if sanctions could be lifted. He left the Trump campaign following a report that the CIA was investigating his Russian connections. Roger Stone, Trump’s longtime friend, is reportedly under investigation for possible links with Russia. He has denied ever visiting Russia but admitted that he had worked in Ukraine. Stone announced in a speech last summer that he had spoken to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, and Stone predicted that there would be additional leaked documents, a prediction that came true within weeks. Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross was a business partner of Viktor Vekselberg, a Russian oligarch and Putin ally, in a major financial project involving the Bank of Cyprus. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson signed a multibillion dollar agreement with Russia in 2011 on behalf of ExxonMobil for an oil drilling project in the Arctic. The project was brought to a halt in 2014 as a result of the sanctions that were imposed on Russia in response to Russia’s aggression in Ukraine. Putin personally awarded Tillerson the “Order of Friendship” in 2013. The financial dealings and alliances in Trump’s Kremlin Klan present obvious conflicts of interest for the Trump Administration, and they are too significant to ignore. Make no mistake, the truth will be revealed. If it is discovered that President Trump worked with Russia to undermine our democracy, Republicans in Congress should put country above party and move to impeach President Trump. ###
03.01.2017	Waters on Trump: One Scripted Speech Changes Nothing Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to President Trump’s speech before a joint session of Congress last night: “While he certainly did appear more presidential and changed the way he frames the issues, I believe Donald Trump still lacks a fundamental understanding of the legislative process. The President cannot unilaterally accomplish all that he outlined in his speech, and he will soon find out that much of the opposition he will confront will in fact come from Republicans. “President Trump wants to repeal and replace Obamacare, but the Republicans can’t agree on a plan. The President has said he wants to preserve Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid. The Republicans want to dismantle them. The President wants to build a wall along the southern border. The Republicans can’t agree on how to pay for it or if it should even be built. The President wants a $1 trillion dollar infrastructure bill. The Republicans do not like public spending and would rather provide tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. For all of the unity the Republicans are working to demonstrate with a President they strongly opposed, they will have plenty of opportunities to fight the President on their own terms. “I did not attend Trump’s speech last night for the same reason I didn’t attend the inauguration: I refuse to participate in a ceremony that honors a President that has so disrespected our democracy. “Trump has made a mockery of our government and seems to relish every opportunity he can to push the boundaries of our Constitution and common decency. If he had any respect for the office of the President, he would have divested his businesses. If he had any regard for the integrity of the office, he would have released his tax returns. If he had any regard for American exceptionalism, he would condemn Putin’s actions in Eastern Europe and Syria and not call into question our country’s standing and leadership on the world’s stage. If he had any regard for common decency, he would apologize to the many people he humiliated during his campaign. One scripted speech changes nothing. “I remain as determined as ever to fight this President and fight any efforts he undertakes to roll back the progress we made under the Obama Administration. President Trump’s signature slogan about ‘making America great again’ is all about the past and dragging America backwards. Democrats will remain focused on strengthening America’s future and ensuring all Americans have access to equal opportunities and economic prosperity.” ###
02.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters delivered the following remarks at an event sponsored by the Congressional Progressive Caucus and The Voices for Internet Freedom celebrating the 2-year anniversary since the Federal Communications Commission’s vote to protect Net Neutrality. Her remarks as prepared for delivery are as follows: “Good Afternoon! I want to tell you how truly delighted I am to join you this afternoon with the Voices of Internet Freedom Coalition and Congressional Progressive Caucus, all in recognition of our historic win on “net neutrality.” I want to thank Joe Torres and Free Press for the invitation and all of our panelists here for your unwavering efforts to protect our nation’s media landscape. “Free Press and I have worked on so, so many big issues over the years. From Net Neutrality, the Comcast-NBC merger, and down to the failed AT&T-T-Mobil merger, I could always count on Free Press and our small group of public interest advocates to stand on the side of consumers, communities of color, and our young people who most especially understand the stakes in our digital media landscape. Young men and women have now grown up in a social media era. They have Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram accounts and they understand how important Internet Freedom is to their ability to express their views online. “I recall our years of hard work together to raise public awareness about the importance of internet freedom and why net neutrality rules needed to apply to wireless and broadband providers. We fought against the large telecom companies, the Republicans, and even some Democrats. “In fact, it was in late 2009, just as we were beginning our efforts on the Comcast-NBC merger, that I first became involved in “net neutrality.” I initiated meetings with Free Press and staff from the Media Access Project – an organization that I know many of you remember (it no longer exists). “I became aware at that time just how important net neutrality was for the African American and Hispanic communities who according to Pew Research relied disproportionately on wireless access to the internet through mobile phones. “It was then in early 2010 that I wrote the FCC supporting its efforts to establish sensible guidelines to ensure that the Internet remained an open and vibrant platform for creativity and innovation. From there, many fights in Congress, at the FCC, and in the courts ensued. From the moment the FCC under President Obama set an agenda to adopt net neutrality rules, it was met with resistance by industry and Congressional opponents who proceeded to fight the FCC’s efforts every step of the way. “I criticized the rules first adopted by the FCC as inadequate and believed they did not go far enough to afford mobile wireless users the same open Internet protections. This is why I was so pleased, after many years of fighting, that the FCC was able to approve net neutrality rules in 2015 that applied both to wireless and wireline networks. “Everyone here understands the importance of Internet Freedom to many of the important social movements we have seen today. For example, Black Lives Matter, the Women’s March on Washington D.C., and the protests at Standing Rock all relied on the freedom of the Internet to reach audiences that might not have otherwise been reached. The Internet and social media have empowered individuals and communities all across this country to organize and mobilize in unprecedented numbers. You have to ask yourself, who would benefit in any attempt to roll back Internet freedoms? “A free and open internet doesn’t just help communities from an organizing perspective; it also lowers barriers for small business owners, entrepreneurs, and startups. Net Neutrality is good for small business growth. Just think, would Google or Uber or Amazon exist today if they had to battle Internet Service Providers in their early stages of development? There are countless small businesses and entrepreneurs out there right now who are fighting that same fight. And without Net Neutrality rules protecting their right to the internet, their businesses might not have the opportunity to succeed. “Yet, even as we are gathered here today to commemorate our victory, we know that net neutrality rules will face renewed opposition from emboldened opponents who see opportunities to weaken the rules under a new FCC Commissioner, the Republican-controlled Congress, and an out-of-control White House. Despite these tough odds, I know that we can make our case and that with continued advocacy from organizations such as the ones in this room, we can prevail. “Once again, I want to thank you all for having me here today. I want you to know I am with you in this fight. I’ve committed to fighting the Trump Administration every step of the way as he begins to dismantle the progress we made under the Obama Administration. Please stay engaged, follow me on Twitter, send me tweets and retweets. I want to hear from you and please know I will always be one of your biggest allies in Congress!”
02.19.2017	LOS ANGELES, CA – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Torrance representative, released the following statement today, in response to yesterday’s fire and explosion at the Torrance refinery, which is owned by PBF Energy: “I am relieved that yesterday’s fire and explosion at the Torrance refinery was effectively contained, and I am grateful that there were no reported casualties. I commend all of the fire fighters and first responders who were involved in responding to this emergency. However, I am sick and tired of the recurring safety incidents at the Torrance refinery. Yesterday’s explosion ironically occurred on the two-year anniversary of the 2015 explosion, which injured four workers, registered as a magnitude 1.7 earthquake, and covered much of the surrounding community with ash. The next incident could be fatal! A Chemical Safety Board investigation into the 2015 explosion concluded that it could have been catastrophic. That explosion launched an 80,000-pound piece of equipment into the air, close to a container of hydrofluoric acid, a highly toxic chemical used in the refining process. If this volatile and dangerous chemical had been released, it could have injured or killed a large number of people in the surrounding community. While we were fortunate that no hydrofluoric acid was released in that explosion, another such incident could occur at any time. We cannot afford to keep taking chances. If the Torrance refinery cannot stop these explosions, they should stop using hydrofluoric acid. The safety of the community is paramount.”
02.14.2017	Washington D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued the following statement in response to the resignation of General Michael Flynn as National Security Advisor: “Michael Flynn’s resignation last night is just the tip of the iceberg for an Administration careening toward disaster. What is most concerning about the resignation is that it appears the Trump Administration was either unaware that Flynn had discussed sanctions with the Russian ambassador, or that the President only removed Flynn after the Administration was caught in yet another lie. What we do know now is that Acting Attorney General Sally Yates did warn the Trump Administration that Flynn may have been compromised and may be susceptible to blackmail by Russian operatives. “Michael Flynn’s resignation only adds to many unanswered questions about the Trump Administration’s connection to Vladimir Putin and the Russian government. Why did the Trump Administration ignore Sally Yates’ warnings and appoint Flynn to the sensitive and vital position of National Security Advisor? Was Flynn acting on Trump’s orders when he discussed sanctions with the Russian ambassador? What is the extent of former Trump campaign chairman Paul Manafort’s relationship with the Kremlin and the Ukraine? How much did Manafort and Flynn know about Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and the Russian cyberattacks? How much did President Trump himself know, and how much did his campaign staff and other associates know? “It is because of these unanswered questions that I am pushing legislation, H.Con.Res. 15, demanding a thorough investigation of any collusion between President Trump, his associates, and the Russian government to influence the outcome of the 2016 election. “I believe the answers to these critical questions could lead to revelations that would be grounds for impeachment.” ###
02.08.2017	Washington D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters condemned the confirmation of Betsy DeVos as Secretary of Education. The Senate vote, which was tied at 50-50 due to the conscientious defection of two Republican Senators, was ultimately decided by Vice President Mike Pence. It is unprecedented in American history for a Vice President to break a tie in order to confirm a cabinet nominee. “Never in the history of our nation has there been a cabinet nominee so divisive among members of the Senate that a vote by the Vice President was required to ensure confirmation. Following Betsy DeVos’ January 18th hearing, it was evident that she lacked the necessary knowledge and commitment to effectively lead the Department of Education and support our nation’s public schools. Not only was she unable to meaningfully discuss the debate over proficiency and growth, she did not demonstrate even a basic understanding of charter school accountability standards. Even worse, she was unaware of federal law that set standards for educating students with disabilities. This lack of understanding of the federal educational landscape does not inspire confidence that her leadership will espouse equity, much less continuity, for all students. Betsy DeVos’ only experience in education policy has been focused on lobbying against public education and not in any practical educational role. Betsy DeVos has not served students as a teacher, a principal or as any other type of school administrator. She has not served on a school board or as a school system leader. As Secretary of Education, we can expect Betsy DeVos to pursue her agenda of privatizing public schools, diverting crucial taxpayer dollars away from students who need them, and relaxing important protections against fraud, waste, and abuse across the education system. I remain steadfastly committed to making sure all Americans have access to high quality public education, and I will do everything in my power to hold Betsy DeVos accountable for advancing quality education to all students across the country.”
02.01.2017	Washington D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued the following statement regarding the dismissal of Acting Attorney General Sally Yates: “I am utterly appalled by the manner in which the Trump Administration fired Acting Attorney General Sally Yates. Not only did the President fire Sally Yates for her refusal to enforce a poorly conceived and likely unconstitutional executive order, but upon removal, he had the audacity to describe her actions as a “betrayal.” If unquestioned loyalty to President Trump supersedes adherence to the Constitution and the rule of law, then we should all be deeply concerned about the Justice Department Donald Trump is shaping. Ironically, it was the President’s own Attorney General Nominee, Sen. Jeff Sessions, who strongly questioned Yates at her confirmation hearing about her willingness to be an independent decision maker, remaining legally objective, even if it meant disagreeing with the President. Our democracy demands leadership that truly makes our citizens safer, not leadership that spreads chaos and uncertainty haphazardly as President Trump has done over the course of the last eleven days. Sally Yates served her country with distinction, exhibiting a profound reverence for the Justice Department. The President would do well to have more dedicated, seasoned, and professional public servants advising his policies rather than a small circle of political figures whose principle objective is to appease his very small base of support.”
02.01.2017	Washington D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued the following statement regarding the appointment of White House Senior Counselor Steve Bannon to the National Security Council: “I unequivocally condemn President Trump’s appointment of white supremacist, ethno-nationalist Steve Bannon to the National Security Council (NSC). President Trump, who lost the popular vote by 2.8 million votes and was elected with the assistance and support of the Russian government, David Duke and the Ku Klux Klan, appears determined to govern as he ran his campaign, appealing only to the most extreme elements of our society. “Steve Bannon is neither a national security expert, nor does he have foreign policy or intelligence experience that would justify his placement on a council charged with the safety and security of the American public. As a master manipulator, Steve Bannon’s chief objective is to continue to use President Trump as a ‘blunt instrument’ to burn down the proverbial house and rebuild our government from the ground up, in a manner that would serve only a tiny fraction of the American people. “Steve Bannon’s radical views against Muslims are also troubling given the sensitive alliances that must be preserved in the fight against ISIS. As someone who called for the formation of a ‘church militant’ to ‘bind together’ in a ‘war against Islam,’ Steve Bannon’s appointment to a council advising on national security would further alarm our global partners who are already unnerved by President Trump’s incoherent foreign policy goals. I urge my colleagues to continue to fight, and resist at every turn President Trump’s attempts to divide our country and destroy our values.”
01.31.2017	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, introduced legislation demanding that congressional investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 election include a thorough review of any collusion between persons associated, formally or informally, with President Donald Trump and the Russian government. In a press conference announcing the legislation with other progressive Members of Congress, Congresswoman Waters delivered the following remarks: Like so many of you, we have been shaken by events that have occurred over the last 11 days since Donald Trump was inaugurated. We have been shaken by the lies, the deception, and the stunning level of incompetence. In just under two weeks, Donald Trump has unnerved our allies, challenged our values, and brought so much instability and chaos to our country. This chaos is sure to please at least one person – Vladimir Putin. For everyone Trump is quick to bully, from world leaders to gold star families, to disabled Americans, there seems to be one person on the world’s stage who can do no wrong in Trump’s eyes. A dictator and former KGB agent who armed Assad in Syria as he attacked innocent civilians appears to be the only man that Donald Trump will not disparage. Given the extensive ties between Russia and individuals associated with Trump, we cannot ignore the possibility that there may have been collusion between Russia and the Trump campaign. Both during his campaign and since his election, Donald Trump has surrounded himself with people who have extensive ties to Vladimir Putin and the Russian government. Paul Manafort, Trump’s former campaign manager, was a paid lobbyist for Viktor Yanukovych, the pro-Russian politician in Ukraine who fled to Russia in 2014 and was subjected to U.S. sanctions related to Russian aggression in Ukraine. Manafort has also been involved in multimillion dollar business deals with Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs, which were reportedly the subject of an FBI inquiry. Roger Stone, Trump’s longtime friend, is reportedly under investigation for possible links with Russia. He has denied ever visiting Russia but admitted he had worked in Ukraine. Stone announced in a speech last summer that he had spoken to WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, and Stone predicted that there would be additional leaked documents, a prediction that came true within weeks. Michael Flynn, Trump’s National Security Advisor, did a paid series of events in Moscow, including a speech and appearance at a party for RT, a Kremlin-funded TV station, where he was photographed sitting right next to Vladimir Putin. Trump’s nominee for Secretary of Commerce, Wilbur Ross, was a business partner of Viktor Vekselberg, a Russian oligarch and Putin ally, in a major financial project involving the Bank of Cyprus. Finally, former ExxonMobil CEO Rex Tillerson, Trump’s nominee for Secretary of State, signed a multibillion dollar agreement with Russia in 2011 on behalf of ExxonMobil for an oil drilling project in the Arctic. The project was brought to a halt in 2014 as a result of the sanctions that were imposed on Russia in response to Russia’s aggression in Ukraine. Putin personally awarded Tillerson the “Order of Friendship” in 2013. The financial dealings and alliances in this Trump-Putin circle present obvious conflicts of interest for the Trump Administration, and they are too significant to be ignored. Why did Paul Manafort and the Trump campaign push for softer language on the Ukraine in the Republican platform last summer? What did Paul Manafort and Roger Stone know about the cyberattacks on their political opponents? Why would Donald Trump deny knowledge of Russian responsibility for hacking even as he encouraged cyberattacks on his political opponent? We must find out just how involved the Trump campaign was in Russia’s interference in our election. That is why I am introducing a resolution to focus on what Congress must do to thoroughly investigate Trump’s connections with Russia and whether there was collusion between the Trump campaign and the Russian government to influence the outcome of the election. We cannot allow any investigation led by the Republicans in Congress to whitewash Trump’s ties to Russia or avoid examining these critical questions.
01.28.2017	Rep. Maxine Waters: Shame on You, Donald Trump! January 28, 2017 Los Angeles, CA – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to President Donald Trump’s ban on immigrants from certain predominantly Muslim countries: “I am deeply appalled but not in the least bit shocked by President Trump's actions over the last week that reflect just how ill-prepared he is to govern our country. President Trump, who lost the popular vote by 2.8 million votes and was elected with the assistance of the Russian government, has managed in a single week to offend a key ally, raise premiums on homeowners, and implement an un-American immigration ban, all while advancing new lies and conspiracy theories with each passing day. “The Administration's ban on immigrants from certain predominantly Muslim countries is not the result of thoughtful policymaking, but yet another action catering to the President's small base of support. The order prohibits entry into the U.S. to immigrants from seven predominantly Muslim countries – Iraq, Syria, Iran, Libya, Somalia, Sudan and Yemen – for the next 90 days and suspends the admission of refugees for the next 120 days. This shortsighted executive order fails to make any distinction between people who deserve to come to the United States and those who do not. The order has already resulted in the detention of an Iraqi man who courageously worked with the U.S. government for 10 years after the U.S. invaded Iraq. The order even prohibits re-entry to permanent U.S. residents from these countries, who will now be forced to apply for waivers just to return to their homes and families in the United States. “The Administration’s ban on refugees is especially deplorable. It targets women, men, and children who are fleeing brutal repression in countries like Syria and who were hoping to find freedom in the United States of America. “Contrary to what the Administration would have the American public believe, the Administration's immigration ban is not even an effective way to combat or prevent domestic terror attacks. Of the most tragic terrorist attacks that have occurred on American soil over the past few years, including the Boston marathon bombing, the Orlando Pulse nightclub shooting, and the San Bernardino shooting, none of the perpetrators were born in any of the seven affected countries. The order does not even cover Saudi Arabia, the country that was the origin of 15 of the 19 terrorists who carried out the horrendous September 11th terrorist attacks. “The President’s executive order was clearly motivated by prejudice against Muslims and a desire to appeal to a small group of people who share his prejudiced views. However, instead of making our nation a safer place for all Americans, the order will make us less safe by providing ISIS and other terrorist groups propaganda that they can use to recruit new fighters and encourage attacks. “Not only is the Administration's immigration ban immoral and likely unconstitutional, it goes against everything for which the United States stands, as a nation of immigrants and a beacon of hope for people around the world. “President Trump must understand that governing a nation is serious business and his actions have consequences both in the United States and abroad. The American people are not pawns in a reality show, and he cannot simply sit in the White House and sign decrees as if he were a king unbound by any check on his power and authority. “Those in Congress who remain silent and fail to condemn this executive order will share in the responsibility for the resulting injustices.” ###
01.23.2017	Washington D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued the following statement on the hearing to consider the nomination of Betsy DeVos for secretary of education, which took place on January 18: “It is clear from Betsy DeVos’ confirmation hearing last week that she not only lacks commitment and faith in America’s public schools, but also lacks the experience necessary to serve them. Following questioning from several Senators, Betsy DeVos was not forthcoming about whether schools receiving federal funding should meet the accountability standards established under the Individuals with Disabilities in Education Act, which is an obligation she did not know federal law required states to comply with. She refused to commit to uphold current Title IX guidelines on sexual assaults on college campuses, and she refused to commit to not privatizing public schools. “Betsy DeVos, who testified that she has no practical or meaningful experience in the public education system, who has never attended any public primary, secondary or post-secondary school, and whose children have never been enrolled in a public school, is incredibly unprepared to run the Department of Education’s elementary and secondary school programs. In fact, Betsy DeVos’ most well established experience in education policy stems from a long record of financing and lobbying for policies favoring the privatization of public schools, which sends necessary tax funding away from students who need it most. In her home state of Michigan, Betsy DeVos is best known for propping up charter schools, which sometimes operate on a for-profit basis and have a mixed record of success. In 1999, Betsy DeVos and her husband both asserted that the school choice agenda would fundamentally improve education, but despite their vast efforts in Michigan and untold millions spent in the state, Michigan’s charter schools perform worse on national tests in reading and math than Michigan’s public schools, which also do not perform very well. Unlike previous secretaries of education, Betsy DeVos has never served as a teacher, school administrator or school system leader. Neither has she previously served in public office. Instead of genuinely committing her time to actually educating students or helping teachers, Betsy DeVos has — by her own admission — bought influence through massive political donations to advance her policy agenda. “Furthermore, having never applied for student loans for herself or for her children, she is equally unqualified to run the department’s $1 trillion dollar student loan bank. Betsy DeVos failed to provide any detail on how to protect students from predatory, fraudulent for-profit colleges and universities, which for decades have allowed institutions like Trump University, ITT Tech, and Corinthian Colleges to cheat students from their funds while saddling them with insurmountable debt. Our children, teachers and parents deserve better and I urge my colleagues in the Senate to reject Betsy DeVos.”
01.12.2017	Congresswoman Maxine Waters’ Statement on ‘Russia Today’ Interference during C-SPAN Broadcast January 12, 2017 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued a statement in response to reports that C-SPAN’s online broadcast of her floor speech discussing H.R. 78, the SEC Regulatory Accountability Act, was inexplicably interrupted by a broadcast from RT, an English-language network controlled by the Russian government. During her floor remarks, Congresswoman Waters made frequent references to Russia, the incoming Trump Administration, and the President-elect’s cabinet nominees with ties to Wall Street before the broadcast was compromised. Congresswoman Waters’ statement is as follows: “What’s most unusual and curious about the incident today is the point at which C-SPAN’s online broadcast of my floor speech was interrupted by a broadcast from RT – Russia’s international television network. At the time, I was discussing my opposition to H.R. 78, a Republican bill that would require the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to undertake an extremely onerous and financial industry-friendly cost-benefit analysis to the detriment of its rulemaking and enforcement duties that protect investors. Right before the interruption, I stated the following: ‘And further, Donald Trump has nominated a lifelong defender of Wall Street to lead the SEC, which I can only assume means that Trump’s SEC will eagerly pillage the Commission’s overworked enforcement staff to help pay for the Republicans’ planned repeal of Dodd-Frank. As President-elect Trump takes office next week, beginning what is the most conflicted Administration in U.S. history, I urge my colleagues to join me, investor and consumer advocates, public pension plans, civil rights groups, labor unions and supporters of financial reform in opposing H.R. 78 to ensure that the actions of Trump’s SEC are in the interest of Americans’ economic stability, and not in Russia’s or Wall Street’s interests.’ As I continued to speak extemporaneously about how the bill would obliterate the SEC’s regulatory authority, the broadcast was inexplicably interrupted by programming from RT. “C-SPAN has informed my office that they are investigating the issue and do not yet know how the online broadcast was compromised. C-SPAN also said that this type of occurrence was unique and its staff could not readily recall a similar interference in its programming. Placed in the context of current events concerning cyberattacks and foreign interference in our elections, it is very important that C-SPAN provide a clear and concise explanation for the interruption of its online broadcast before we can reach any conclusions or establish the basis for additional inquiry.” ###
01.05.2017	Congresswoman Waters Urges the U.S. Senate to Reject Jeff Sessions’ AG Nomination January 5, 2017 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, joined her colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus in a press conference to urge the United States Senate to oppose Sen. Jeff Sessions’ confirmation to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States. Below are Congresswoman Waters’ remarks as prepared for delivery: “Like all of my colleagues here today, I remain deeply concerned by President-elect Trump’s choice of Senator Jeff Sessions to serve as the next Attorney General of the United States. “Senator Sessions has a long legacy of insensitive, racially charged comments against minorities in this country. Senator Sessions has expressed contempt for civil rights groups advocating on behalf of the African-American community, calling the NAACP and the ACLU ‘un-American’ and ‘communist inspired.’ In the 1980s, then U.S. Attorney Sessions oversaw a case about a young black man who was kidnapped, brutally murdered, and hung by two members of the KKK. When Sessions learned that the perpetrators of the crime had smoked marijuana on the same evening he said aloud that he thought the KKK was ‘OK, until he learned they smoked pot.’ “This behavior ultimately cost him a federal judgeship in 1986, during which in his confirmation hearing former colleagues revealed that he used the N-word. At the time, Senator Ted Kennedy warned that he would be a ‘throwback to a shameful era” and it was ultimately his Alabama counterpart conservative Democrat Howell Heflin who cast the deciding vote against him. Despite his record, Senator Sessions brazenly characterized himself as “not a racist” or someone who is ‘insensitive to blacks.’ “On immigration, Senator Sessions has opposed almost every immigration reform bill in the past two decades that includes a pathway to citizenship. Senator Sessions has also fought against legal immigration, including guest worker programs and visa programs. He was labeled by the conservative National Review as “amnesty’s worst enemy” in 2014. “Senator Sessions is also no ally to the LGBT community either, having opposed the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act of 2009, which expanded federal hate crime protections to victims of violence due to their gender, gender identity, sexual orientation, or disability. Sessions also voted in support of a constitutional ban on same-sex marriage. As Attorney General, Senator Sessions could neutralize this and other laws protecting vulnerable people. “Every American should be concerned about how and whether Senator Sessions as Attorney General would enforce the bedrock civil protections of every individual, particularly those of our most vulnerable citizens. Given his track record, it’s clear that he would not. I urge the Senate to reject his nomination.”
12.20.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement today in response to the apparent terrorist attack in Berlin, Germany: “My heart is deeply saddened by the apparent terrorist attack in a Berlin Christmas market that killed at least a dozen innocent people. This deadly attack appears to have been designed to kill large numbers of people while they were shopping for Christmas and celebrating the holiday season with their friends and neighbors. My heart goes out to the victims and their families as they recover from this senseless tragedy. “Let us remember also the many innocent people around the world whose lives have been destroyed by violent terrorists. Such ruthless individuals use horrific and unconscionable methods to cause people to live in fear while they go about their daily lives. My hope is that, as an international community, we can work together to oppose acts of terrorism, wherever they may occur. “America stands in solidarity with the people of Berlin, and we will keep them in our thoughts and prayers.” ###
12.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to General Services Administration (GSA) Administrator Denise Turner Roth urging the GSA to prepare to terminate President-elect Trump’s lease agreement to operate the Trump International Hotel in Washington D.C. The text of the letter is as follows: The Honorable Denise Turner Roth U.S. General Services Administration 301 7th Street SW Washington, DC 20414 December 15, 2016 Dear Administrator Roth: On December 5th, I wrote to you expressing concerns with the United States General Services Administration’s (GSA) current lease agreement with the Trump Organization for commercial use of the Old Post Office Building, the current site of the Trump International Hotel in Washington, DC. As you know, the current lease prohibits elected officials from signing on as parties and sharing in any profits. In light of President-elect Trump’s continued failure to announce a detailed plan to divest, sell, and transfer his assets into a qualified blind trust – and not simply transfer operational control to his children – the GSA, under its current leadership, must immediately notify Congress and President-elect Trump of its intent to terminate the lease, absent any viable proposal to cure the looming breach of its terms before President-elect Trump is sworn into office to formally become the next President on January 20, 2017. The potential conflicts of interest stemming from the current lease will compound significantly after the presidential inauguration. Inaction by GSA now will result in President Trump having the unprecedented authority to appoint a new GSA Administrator and potentially exert improper influence in pursuit of a new lease that allows him to remain associated with the Trump International Hotel in DC while he is serving in office. As I stated previously, I do not believe that President-elect Trump’s mere separation from his business operations would fix the potential conflicts of interest presented by the existing lease, since it is the Trump namesake that is branded and sold around the world – a brand that has likely grown in value and profitability since the election. My position appears to be shared by the Office of Government Ethics (OGE). In a December 12th letter to the Senate, OGE Director Walter M. Shaub, Jr. underscored that, "[t]ransferring operational control of a company to one's children would not constitute the establishment of a qualified blind trust, nor would it eliminate conflicts of interest" under federal statutes governing conflicts of interest. Because President-elect Trump seems unlikely to take the necessary steps to avoid any conflicts of interest, I believe that the GSA under your leadership and the Obama Administration must address the upcoming breach of the agreement immediately and structure a plan that mitigates the potential damage and job losses that may result from an unstructured termination of the lease. At the very least, the GSA, in consultation with the OGE, must issue forward-guidance to the incoming Trump Administration detailing how it can maintain the highest standard of ethics. Despite what he believes, the President-elect cannot effectively be both President and a business tycoon. The President should be solely focused on serving the interests of the American people, not on expanding his dynasty. If he continues down this path, every action his Administration takes will be subject to scrutiny and question. In addition to the actions you undertake in the short term to address the potential conflicts of interest raised by the current lease, it is my intent to introduce legislation in the next Congress to codify the prohibition in the lease to ensure that no elected official at any level of government can enter into or remain on a lease for profit and commercial use of land or property owned by the federal government. The United States government is not a subsidiary of the Trump Organization, and a clear message should be sent by the GSA in the short term and by Congress next year to protect the integrity of this country and of the Office of the President. Sincerely,
12.14.2016	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on the Nomination of Rex Tillerson for Secretary of State December 14, 2016 WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, condemned President-elect Trump’s nomination of Rex Tillerson to be our nation’s next Secretary of State. Her statement follows: “A day after he publicly ridiculed the C.I.A. and its conclusions that Russia breached our recent election, President-elect Trump once again reaffirms his curious allegiance to Vladimir Putin with yet another nod to Russia in his latest nominee for Secretary of State. Putin-approved Rex Tillerson comes after the President-elect’s continued denials, despite the intelligence community’s conclusions and bipartisan consensus, that Russia was behind the cyberattacks on Clinton Campaign staff, the Democratic National Committee, and even the Republican National Committee; his urging Russian operatives to hack his political opponent; his repeated statements praising Putin’s leadership and stature over the United States President; and the ongoing unanswered questions about his former campaign manager Paul Manafort and his multimillion dollar business deals with Russian and Ukrainian oligarchs, including some allegedly tied to organized crime, that is reportedly the subject of an FBI inquiry. Like the President-elect, if confirmed, Rex Tillerson would assume his position with no government experience and a myriad of conflicts of interest and financial entanglements related to his business dealings with Russia. Rex Tillerson has no diplomatic experience. His entire career has been spent at Exxon and ExxonMobil (following Exxon’s merger with Mobil in 1999), and his international experience is limited to negotiating oil deals for his own and his company’s profits. Tillerson has very close ties to Russian President Vladimir Putin, ties which go back to the days when Tillerson represented Exxon’s interest in Russia prior to Tillerson’s accession to his current position as ExxonMobil’s CEO. Tillerson was awarded the Order of Friendship by Putin in 2013. This “friendship” award should cause Americans to wonder whether his first priority as Secretary of State will be the national security of the United States or his personal relationship with the authoritarian leader of a nation that has nuclear weapons pointed at our country. In 2011, Tillerson signed a multibillion dollar agreement with Russia on behalf of ExxonMobil for drilling in the Arctic. However, sanctions against Russia in response to its aggression in Ukraine brought the project to a halt in 2014. If Tillerson were to use his position as Secretary of State to reverse these sanctions, it could be immensely profitable to ExxonMobil – and possibly his personal stock in the company. Trump’s refusal to close the door on lifting the sanctions aggravates these concerns. Tillerson’s ties to Russia are especially troublesome in light of the U.S. intelligence community’s deeply disturbing conclusion that Russia interfered in the U.S. elections for the purpose of electing Donald Trump. Any foreign meddling in our democratic process is absolutely unacceptable. The incoming administration may need to make critical decisions regarding how the U.S. will respond to this intolerable interference, in order to deter Russia – as well as other potential adversaries – from attempting to interfere in our elections in the future. Revelations of Russian meddling in our elections have created a crisis of confidence in our political institutions. Trump has exacerbated this crisis by rejecting out-of-hand the conclusions of the dedicated professionals who work in the intelligence community. Trump’s nomination of a designated friend of Russia to be our next Secretary of State will only serve to intensify the concerns of American voters about the protection of the electoral system enshrined in our Constitution. Rex Tillerson’s record of misinformation on climate change is also a reason for grave concern about his ability to be a credible and effective Secretary of State. Recent evidence indicates that Exxon deliberately misled government agencies and the American public regarding the threat posed by climate change. The New York Times reported that ExxonMobil may have known as early as the 1950’s that their carbon emitting product contributes to warming the earth. Furthermore, Inside Climate News and the Los Angeles Times reported that ExxonMobil and other energy groups began a coordinated campaign of mass deception as to the truth of climate science – spreading doubt and confusion among the public and ultimately sinking climate action in Congress. Rex Tillerson’s apparent willingness to deceive the American people by engaging in a misinformation campaign that could have significantly increased his company’s profits makes him unacceptable as a diplomatic representative of our nation. I have personal experience with the troubling way that Rex Tillerson has run his business, as a consequence of ExxonMobil’s ownership of an oil refinery in the City of Torrance in my congressional district. Exxon acquired the refinery when it merged with Mobil in 1999 and continued to operate it until July 1st of this year, when ExxonMobil sold the refinery to another company. During Mr. Tillerson’s tenure as CEO of ExxonMobil and operator of this refinery, the refinery had at least six known accidents and safety problems, including an incident in 2009 that caused a worker to die of second- and third-degree burns and an explosion last year, which injured four workers, registered as a magnitude 1.7 earthquake, and covered much of the surrounding community with ash. It is hard to believe that Mr. Tillerson would be a dedicated advocate for our country’s national interests when he has provided no evidence that he takes seriously the health and safety of the people who live and work in and around his company’s facilities, even when those facilities are located in American communities like Torrance, California. Finally, Tillerson’s close ties to Russia are especially alarming in light of Russian support for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s brutal assault on the city of Aleppo and his merciless slaughter of innocent civilians. “Aleppo will join the ranks of those events in world history that define modern evil, that stain our conscience decades later - Halabja, Rwanda, Srebrenica and now Aleppo,” said U.S. Ambassador Samantha Power. Given all of the domestic and international challenges facing our great country at this critical moment in history, we do not need yet another Trump Administration official with extensive entanglements in Russia and a history of pursuing corporate profits at the expense of the American people.” ###
12.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, sent letters to General Services Administration (GSA) Administrator Denise Turner Roth and the Chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Jason Chaffetz, calling for an investigation into President-elect Trump’s lease agreement with GSA to operate the Trump International Hotel in Washington D.C. and actual or perceived conflicts of interest stemming from the agreement. “Today, I sent letters to Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairman Jason Chaffetz and U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) Administrator Denise Turner Roth calling for an investigation into President-elect Trump’s lease agreement with the GSA to operate the Trump International Hotel in Washington, D.C., and any conflicts of interest that may emerge as he assumes the presidency. My concerns for the potential for corruption and the ethical consequences that may result from actual or perceived conflicts of interest have so far not been assuaged due to the President-elect’s refusal to liquidate his assets and place the proceeds in a blind trust. To date, the President-elect has neither outlined a plan describing in detail how he will remove himself from his business operations, nor has he assured the American people that he will not attempt to profit from the presidency through business arrangements in the United States and development projects around the world. The Trump Hotel in Washington, D.C. is ground zero, laying the foundation for the myriad conflicts the President-elect will have once he takes the oath of office next month.While any elected official signing on to such a lease with GSA would be problematic, a President lessee in this instance would prove especially troublesome. Since President-elect Trump will have the authority to appoint the next GSA Administrator who will oversee the use of the Trump Hotel in DC and lead regular negotiations with the Trump Organization over the terms of the lease, he will effectively be both the landlord and the tenant. “The Wall Street Journal, the Sunlight Foundation, government watchdogs, and former Democrat and Republican White House ethics experts have all called on the President-elect to divest his assets to prevent conflicts of interests. Until he does, those of us responsible for the oversight of our agencies and leaders will continue to hold him accountable. That is why I have also sent a letter to the Inspectors General of our federal financial services agencies to ensure that these matters are examined at all levels. “Given the unprecedented nature of the potential conflicts of interest stemming from President-elect Trump’s businesses, the GSA and Congress must act now to ensure the Office of the President upholds the highest standard of ethics.”
12.01.2016	Congresswoman Waters Commemorates World AIDS Day December 1, 2016 Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a Congressional leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS, issued the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day: “AIDS was first discovered 35 years ago. Since that time, about 700,000 Americans and tens of millions of people around the world have died from this devastating disease. World AIDS Day is a day to honor those who have died, but it is also a day to show our support for those who are living with HIV/AIDS and to recommit ourselves to ending this epidemic once and for all. I have been a consistent advocate for HIV/AIDS response efforts throughout my tenure in Congress. In 1998, I spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative, which has significantly expanded HIV/AIDS awareness, screening, and treatment efforts among racial and ethnic minorities and reduced the tragic AIDS disparities affecting minority communities in the United States. Unfortunately, minorities continue to be severely and disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. Minorities represent the majority of new HIV diagnoses, people living with HIV/AIDS, and deaths among people with HIV/AIDS. African Americans account for 44% of new HIV diagnoses, and Latinos account for 23%. Indeed, the rate of new diagnoses among African Americans is about 8 times that of whites, and the rate among Latinos is about 3 times that of whites. Obviously, the Minority AIDS Initiative is still an essential tool in our nation’s arsenal for fighting this epidemic. Earlier this year, I sent a letter to congressional appropriators requested an appropriation of $610 million in fiscal year 2017 to expand this critical initiative, and 75 of my congressional colleagues signed my letter. I have also been a leading proponent of efforts to increase HIV/AIDS research and expand access to prevention, testing, and treatment for all those affected by the disease throughout our society. In March of this year, I co-led a letter urging congressional appropriators to increase funding for several domestic HIV/AIDS programs, including the Ryan White care and treatment programs, HIV prevention programs at the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), and HIV/AIDS research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This letter was signed by 86 of my congressional colleagues. In addition, I introduced a resolution encouraging primary care physicians to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. Finally, I reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which requires the federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive plan to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. Clearly, there is much more work to do. We must do everything we can to promote widespread HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, and screening and make treatment more accessible and affordable. Let us rededicate ourselves to stopping the spread of this devastating disease, caring for those who are infected, and finding a cure.” ###
11.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon the announcement of New York State Attorney General Eric Schneiderman’s settlement with Trump University: “I commend New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman for his vigilance and commitment to the victims who were defrauded many thousands of dollars by President-elect Trump's phony for-profit university. Despite the President-elect's blustering denials, initial refusals to settle, and countless attempts to undermine and deny his victims even the most modest compensation, AG Schneiderman successfully secured a $25 million settlement with the President-elect that will provide restitution to each of the victims-- victims who have endured a very lengthy and emotionally taxing process. Since my time in the California State Assembly, I have fought against fraudulent for-profit universities. My earliest legislation--the Maxine Waters School Reform and Student Protection Act--set a threshold for minimum job placement and graduation rates. Since that time, I have introduced several pieces of legislation that hold for-profit colleges accountable for predatory and fraudulent behavior. The CLASS Act, the Students Before Profits Act and the Quality Education for Veterans Act all put the interests of students and taxpayers first by eliminating mandatory arbitration agreements, holding for-profit executives financially liable for their actions and by closing the loophole that incentivizes for-profit colleges to take advantage of student veterans. Of course, we all know that this is not the first lawsuit brought against the President-elect and his businesses. For his part, the President-elect has shown no signs of remorse, even boasting on Twitter that he settled the fraud case for only "a fraction of the potential award." While it is most disturbing to me that our nation's next president is celebrating what he perceives as another victory against his victims, writing off $25 million as a meager sum, it seems to be further evidence of things to come from the next leader of the free world. While he maintained for many months that he would never settle or back down, clearly AG Schneiderman's case was strong enough that the President-elect concluded he would fare better to resolve the claims now rather than have the extent of his fraudulent conduct exposed in court and in public. I remain committed to holding bad actors accountable and I invite the next president to do the same and lead by example."
11.17.2016	Congresswoman Waters’ Statement on the Torrance Refinery Fire WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of the fire that erupted Tuesday at the Torrance refinery, which is owned by PBF Energy, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Torrance representative, released the following statement today: “I am relieved that Tuesday’s fire at the Torrance refinery was effectively contained, and I am grateful there were no reported casualties. I commend all of the fire fighters and first responders who were involved in responding to this emergency. Nevertheless, I am deeply concerned by the history of mishaps at the Torrance refinery. I am especially concerned that Tuesday’s fire occurred in the refinery’s alkylation unit, where a form of hydrofluoric acid is used in the refining process. Hydrofluoric acid is a highly toxic chemical, which could have catastrophic impacts upon the surrounding community if it is released during a major accident. Many Torrance residents have called upon the refinery operator to cease its use of this potentially dangerous chemical and replace it with a less hazardous alternative. Tuesday’s fire in the alkylation unit will undoubtedly magnify the community’s concerns about this chemical. The Torrance refinery has a long history of safety problems, including fires, explosions, leaks, and flaring incidents. Known mishaps over the past two years include a February 18, 2015, explosion, which injured four workers, registered as a magnitude 1.7 earthquake, and covered much of the surrounding community with ash; a September 6, 2015, release of modified hydrofluoric acid; a December 5, 2015, release of hydrogen sulfide; the collapse of a 300-ton crane on June 20, 2016, which injured three workers; and an October 11, 2016, flaring incident in which the refinery emitted flames and belched thick black smoke, which was visible for miles and which caused the City of Torrance to issue a shelter-in-place order for local residents and close nearby roads. It is unfortunate that this refinery is located in a densely populated area of Southern California, where a serious accident has the potential to injure or even kill large numbers of people. While I realize that we cannot re-invent history, I am profoundly aware that the potential risk to the community is very real. At some point in the near future, this risk will have to be realistically dealt with. I am joining together with my colleague, Congressman Ted Lieu, to send a letter to the U.S. Chemical Safety Board (CSB) requesting that the CSB investigate the cause of Tuesday’s fire. I will continue to work hard on these issues until such time as we can guarantee the safety of the residents of Torrance and everyone who lives and works near the refinery.” ###
11.16.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, condemned Republican plans to cut Medicare. Her statement follows: “Even before President-elect Trump is sworn into office, Speaker Ryan is pledging to work with him to break the backs of American seniors by phasing out Medicare. For years, Speaker Ryan has promoted a cold-hearted plan to dismantle Medicare as we know it. His plan would phase out this critical program and replace it with a voucher program, in which seniors would receive premium support payments to purchase health plans from private insurance companies. This is the plan the Speaker included in the House Republican budgets, and it is still discussed on his website. However, cutting Medicare is not what President-elect Trump promised the American people. Throughout his campaign, Trump repeatedly vowed that he would not cut Medicare. He ran television ads in Pennsylvania, in which he stood in front of the camera and pledged to ‘save Social Security and Medicare without cuts.’ Back in December of 2015, Trump promised seniors at a rally in Manassas, Virginia, ‘we’re not going to cut Medicare.’ One might have expected Republicans to leave Medicare alone after last week’s election. Yet Speaker Ryan said in an interview on Fox News that restructuring Medicare is part of his plan to repeal Obamacare. Now, in yet another flip, Trump’s transition website states that he will ‘modernize Medicare.’ What both the Speaker and President-elect fail to mention is, when they say “modernize,” they mean subjecting our nation’s seniors to the private insurance market. Medicare is a successful program that has provided quality health care to millions of American seniors since its creation in 1965. More than 55 million seniors depend upon Medicare in the United States, including more than 5.6 million in my home state of California, as well as 2.5 million in Pennsylvania and 1.3 million in Virginia, the states where Trump made his aforementioned campaign promises. Medicare enables American seniors to see our doctors, obtain affordable prescription drugs, and get the quality medical care we need in our retirement years. I call upon Speaker Ryan to promise that he will never again try to cut Medicare, and I call upon the President-elect to keep the promises he made to the American people and protect Medicare for seniors across this great country.”
11.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon the death of Gwen Ifill, award-winning journalist, news anchor, and author. I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of Gwen Ifill, a brilliant journalist and pioneering political analyst. Against countless obstacles and institutional barriers, Gwen Ifill achieved national acclaim for her professionalism and dedication to delivering trusted news to the American public. Gwen forged a trailblazing path in the field of political journalism through her relentless pursuit of the truth. Gwen’s journalistic achievements were demonstrated through her role on PBS Newshour, her coverage of several presidential campaigns, moderating of debates, and authorship of the best-selling The Breakthrough: Politics and Race in the Age of Obama. Gwen’s professional contributions will continue to serve as an example to future generations of political and media professionals for years to come. My thoughts and prayers are with Gwen’s family and friends during this difficult time. It is my sincere hope that they find comfort in her memory and the lasting legacy Gwen leaves behind.”
11.04.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Maxine Waters (D-CA), House Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan, Bicameral Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, thanked the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America (AFA) for hosting free, confidential memory screenings and praised them for increasing the duration to throughout National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month in November. “The screenings offered by the AFA are incredibly important in helping our seniors make healthcare decisions,” said Smith. “We will continue our effective collaboration between the Alzheimer’s Task Force and the AFA as this working relationship has been key in raising awareness about Alzheimer’s disease and dementia, helping to eliminate the stigma with which they are all too often associated and providing needed resources to hundreds of thousands annually.” “National Memory Screening Month is an excellent opportunity for individuals with memory concerns to get free and confidential screenings for Alzheimer’s disease and other problems affecting memory,” said Waters. “It is also an opportunity to raise awareness of Alzheimer’s disease and promote the benefits of memory screening and early detection.” AFA has hosted its National Memory Screening initiative during National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month for the past 13 years. This year, the program has expanded to the entire month of November, during which sites across the country, including the entire Kmart Pharmacy chain, will offer free, confidential memory screenings to the public, as well as patient education about brain health and successful aging. To find the screening site closest to you enter your zip code here: https://www.afascreenings.org/. Alzheimer’s disease, a degenerative condition caused by a disease of the brain, is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States. While Alzheimer’s currently has no cure, early detection can help patients and caregivers plan for more positive health outcomes. “Memory screenings are a significant first step toward detection of memory problems,” said Charles J. Fuschillo, Jr., president and CEO of the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America. “Some memory problems can be readily treated, such as those caused by vitamin deficiencies or thyroid problems. Other memory problems may result from causes that are not currently reversible, such as Alzheimer’s disease. There are many benefits to early detection of memory problems. If a memory problem turns out to be Alzheimer’s disease, an individual living with the disease can have an opportunity to participate in long-term care, legal and financial planning discussions with their families, and obtain social services support.” Memory screenings are not used to diagnose illness, but are an indicator to determine whether a person might benefit from further examination by a qualified physician. In addition to helping patients avoid or correct misdiagnosis and other medical problems, memory screenings benefit persons with healthy memory scores by dispelling fears, providing a baseline for future screenings and promoting healthy aging. “Early detection of Alzheimer’s disease expands options for care and treatment and helps individuals and families plan for their future,” said Waters. “I congratulate the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America for organizing National Memory Screening Month.” "I highly encourage everyone to take advantage of the opportunity for a free, confidential memory screening this month,” said Smith. “Knowledge is power, and in addition to providing earlier and more accurate diagnoses, memory screenings offer insight into brain health which improves quality of life for all.” For additional information on Alzheimer’s disease and memory screenings, visit: www.nationalmemoryscreening.org. Smith and Waters teamed up in the 114th Congress to introduce Alzheimer’s Action Now, a package of four bills that together aim to help Alzheimer’s patients and their families; promote public awareness of Alzheimer’s disease; and encourage voluntary contributions to research efforts. The Alzheimer’s Action Now legislative package includes three bills introduced by Rep. Waters: The Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 3090), The Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3091), and the Alzheimer’s Disease Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 3092). The package also includes the Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act (H.R. 1559) introduced by Rep. Smith. The Task Force co-chairs also requested an increase in funding at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), specifically targeted for Alzheimer’s disease in fiscal year 2017. Their efforts were recognized by the Appropriations Committee in the House, which approved a budget that included a $350 million boost at NIH for Alzheimer’s research, for a total of $1.34 billion to continue the search for an Alzheimer’s treatment and cure. Smith co-authored the bipartisan National Alzheimer’s Project Act or NAPA, which passed the House in 2010 and was enacted in 2011. NAPA set a goal of preventing and successfully treating Alzheimer’s disease by 2025 and established a national plan to coordinate government and private sector research as well as improve care and support services for patients and families. Click here to read the national plan. ###
11.04.2016	Los Angeles, CA – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon the death of EJ Jackson: I was deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend EJ Jackson. EJ’s death is a tragic loss for the Greater Los Angeles community that will be felt for many years to come. As the owner of Jackson Limousine, EJ was known around LA as the chauffeur to the stars. Not only was he a notable business man, but he was a celebrated humanitarian and philanthropist who fed thousands of people during the Thanksgiving holiday over the last 34 years through the EJ Jackson Foundation. Each Thanksgiving, EJ would greet the most vulnerable among us, and hand out a complete meal that included turkeys, vegetables, fruit, and bread. He also fed people in need year round, not just during Thanksgiving. There was no limit to his kindness and he will be forever missed and remembered by the many thousands of people who were uplifted and inspired by his generosity. As we all take the time to grieve and mourn this tremendous and heartbreaking loss, his family, friends, and I, are committed to carrying on his legacy and continuing to provide meals during this upcoming Thanksgiving holiday and beyond.” ###
10.26.2016	Washington, DC - Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement in response to Secretary of Defense Ash Carter’s announcement he will suspend collection of enlistment bonuses paid to California National Guard soldiers. According to a report released by the Los Angeles Times, nearly ten thousand soldiers, many of whom served multiple combat tours, were ordered to repay large enlistment bonuses — and slapped with interest charges, wage garnishments and tax liens if they refused. The overpayments were discovered after a federal audit found paperwork errors committed by the California National Guard when awarding enlistment bonuses. “I commend Secretary Carter for his decision to suspend efforts to collect decades old enlistment bonuses from soldiers who accepted those funds in good faith to serve our country. Many of these soldiers were not responsible for the mistakes that led to these payments and should never have been held accountable for others’ misconduct. While today’s announcement is a good first step, we must act now to ensure that those who were entitled to their bonuses, especially those who may have already returned the funds or were unjustly penalized for failing to do so, are made whole. “Unfortunately, this issue is not new to Congress and this latest incident could’ve been prevented had the Republican leadership in the House acted sooner to prevent the bonus recoupments. Language that addressed service member debt relief was briefly considered on the House floor in 2014, but Republicans resisted the inclusion of the provision in the National Defense Authorization Act to avoid a budget score. Now, Republicans are relying on insufficient language in this year’s defense authorization bill, claiming that the legislation would fix the problem when in fact the measure would not take effect until 2027. “We owe our service members an eternal debt of gratitude for their contributions to the country. I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure our soldiers are protected and not unduly subjected to financial strains and stress when they should be uplifted and rewarded for their distinguished service to our country.” Congresswoman Waters today joined over 100 of her congressional colleagues in signing two letters to House Leadership and Defense Secretary Ash Carter calling for a permanent solution that makes service members whole. Congresswoman Waters remains committed to members of the military and veterans who all too often suffer through preventable obstacles after making the ultimate sacrifice. ###
10.14.2016	Washington D.C.,- Today, Congresswoman Waters applauded the Department of Education’s action against DeVry University, resolving the Department’s claim that the institution used unsubstantiated job placement claims in its recruitment and marketing materials. “I commend the Department of Education’s efforts to hold DeVry University accountable and its ongoing work to protect students and taxpayer dollars. Today’s settlement agreement, which is similar to the actions taken by the Department to hold both Corinthian Colleges and ITT Tech accountable for its fraudulent behavior, exposes one of the common predatory practices employed by the for profit college industry. It is simply unlawful for a for profit college to use unsubstantiated placement rates in its recruitment materials. I encourage the Department to continue its oversight over private, post-secondary institutions and pursue any additional measures needed to ensure that students are receiving accurate information prior to their investment of significant time and resources.” Since 1975, DeVry University has claimed that 90% of its graduates were employed in their field of study within 6 months of graduation. DeVry has published this placement rate in its recruitment materials and has received over $5 billion in federal tuition assistance to enroll prospective students. In August 2015, the Department of Education, requested that DeVry substantiate its publicized job placement rate, as is required under federal law. After reviewing DeVry’s information, the Department concluded that the University did not provide sufficient evidence to substantiate the 90% job placement rate claim. On any given year, the for-profit college industry enrolls between 10-13% of college students, yet collects 25% of all federal tuition assistance. Furthermore, a staggering 35% of students who attend schools like DeVry default on their student loans, costing taxpayers billions of dollars each year. “Too many for-profit colleges are not living up to their promise of an affordable, yet high quality education. Fraudulent for-profit colleges drain taxpayers, students and their families and I look forward to continuing to work with the Department to root out any additional unlawful behavior.” said Rep. Waters. Since her time as a California Assemblywoman, Congresswoman Waters has fought to hold predatory for-profit colleges accountable to students and taxpayers, most notably when she introduced the Maxine Waters School Reform and Student Protection Act which set a threshold for minimum job placement and graduation rates. Since that time, Congresswoman Waters has introduced several piece of legislation to prevent the next Corinthian including: the CLASS Act, the Students Before Profits Act, and the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act. She also was the first member of Congress to endorse the Corinthian 100, a group of former Corinthian students who initiated a debt strike in opposition to Corinthian Colleges’ fraudulent practices.
10.13.2016	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement in response to the death and destruction caused by Hurricane Matthew: My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the survivors affected by Hurricane Matthew. While we still do not yet know the full extent of the damage, Hurricane Matthew has left tremendous death and destruction in its wake as it carved a path across the southeastern United States, Haiti, and the Caribbean. At least 38 people have been killed in the United States alone. Flooding is extensive in North Carolina, where more than 2,000 people have been rescued and 4,000 remain in shelters. Many people are still being evacuated as flood waters continue to flow downstream. I stand ready and willing to work with my colleagues in Congress; federal, state, and local officials; and our international partners to assist affected communities and help them recover from this terrible disaster. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee with jurisdiction over the National Flood Insurance Program, I am committed to making sure that as we prepare for the reauthorization of the NFIP we learn from the mistakes of the past and put in place a comprehensive disaster policy that works for homeowners, businesses, and renters across the country. In the same way that I stood with the flood victims in Baton Rouge earlier this year, I will work to ensure that the families picking up the pieces in the wake of Hurricane Matthew have the supplemental disaster funding they need to start the long road to recovery. I will also urge the President to use his full discretion to increase the federal share of disaster assistance to the affected communities and provide some relief from the economic problems that are sure to follow a disaster of this magnitude. Hurricane Matthew has had an especially devastating impact on Haiti, an impoverished nation that is still struggling to recover from the catastrophic 2010 earthquake. The hurricane killed more than 1,000 Haitians, washed away crops, and destroyed houses, roads and infrastructure, mostly in the remote, western region of the country. I am encouraged that the United States government and the international community have already begun to provide humanitarian assistance to survivors in this region. As a friend of Haiti, I will be working closely with the Government of Haiti, the U.S. State Department, and international disaster relief agencies to help the people of Haiti recover from this disaster and rebuild their lives. A renewed focus on the prevention and treatment of cholera is of particular urgency in Haiti since many affected communities lack access to clean water and sanitation infrastructure. The United Nations bears responsibility for introducing cholera into Haiti as a result of poor sanitation at its facilities. I therefore have urged the UN to ensure that its response to the cholera epidemic is sufficient to ensure justice for the people of Haiti and maintain the credibility and leadership of the UN. I will continue to monitor the UN’s cholera response in the aftermath of the hurricane to ensure that this disaster does not exacerbate the epidemic. ###
10.06.2016	Los Angeles, CA – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) was honored on Monday by the Westchester Streetscape Improvement Association (WSIA) and Westchester community leaders with the unveiling of a plaque naming a portion of the revitalized Sepulveda Boulevard landscape the “Congresswoman Maxine Waters Garden.” The WSIA is a non-profit organization that partners with citizens and businesses to improve the quality of life in Westchester, a neighborhood in the City of Los Angeles. In 2008, the WSIA approached Congresswoman Waters to discuss the condition of Sepulveda Boulevard between 80th and 84th Streets. The overgrown roots of the non-native ficus trees had upturned the sidewalks, making them extremely precarious for pedestrians, bicyclists and persons with disabilities. Congresswoman Waters was able to obtain a one-million-dollar federal earmark from the Department of Transportation, which the City of Los Angeles used for a complete redesign and re-landscaping of this important street. Sepulveda Boulevard is a crucial gateway to Los Angeles for arriving visitors and an essential thoroughfare for the residents of Westchester. “Knowing how important this project was to the residents of Westchester, I was pleased to be able to work with the late Los Angeles City Councilmember Bill Rosendahl and his successor, Councilman Mike Bonin, to help the Westchester Streetscape Improvement Association see it through to completion. As a longtime lover of flowers, I am particularly touched by this honor,” said Congresswoman Waters. Leaders of the community, including Los Angeles City Councilman Mike Bonin (CD-11), Westchester/Playa Neighborhood Council President Cyndi Hench, and Westchester Business Improvement District Executive Director Don Duckworth, joined with the WSIA Board, led by President John Ruhlen, to thank Congresswoman Waters. A plaque naming a particularly beautiful section of the now safe and drought resistant landscaping the “Congresswoman Maxine Waters Garden” was unveiled during a brief ceremony outside of Covenant Presbyterian Church. “Our goal was to create a much more walkable streetscape that will enable pedestrians, especially children and the elderly, to safely connect with the schools, churches, and the YMCA, which are located on Sepulveda,” said WSIA President Ruhlen, who began the effort more than a decade ago. The $2.85-million project was funded through a variety of sources, including the federal earmark secured by Congresswoman Waters. Pictured above with Congresswoman Waters (center) are WSIA members (left to right) Sue Piervin , Sheila Mickelson, Barbara Musella, John Ruhlen, Don Duckworth and Marc Hoffman. ###
10.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, sent a letter to House Judiciary Committee leaders yesterday urging them to favorably report Kevin and Avonte’s Law for consideration on the Floor of the House prior to the adjournment of the 114th Congress. The letter was cosigned by Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease and Co-Chair of the Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education, and Congressman Mike Doyle (D-PA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Coalition on Autism Research and Education. Kevin and Avonte’s Law is a bipartisan bill to protect children with developmental disabilities and seniors with dementia who are prone to wandering. The House version of this bill (H.R. 4919) is cosponsored by 82 Members of Congress and was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary’s Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, Homeland Security, and Investigations. The Senate version (S. 2614) passed the Senate by voice vote on July 14, 2016. “As a leader in the fight to end Alzheimer’s disease, I know how challenging the problem of wandering can be for Alzheimer’s patients, their families and caregivers,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Passing Kevin and Avonte’s Law is something Congress can do now to protect Alzheimer’s patients as well as children with developmental disabilities. The legislation has broad bipartisan support in Congress and among advocates for families affected by these conditions. While there are many issues Congress should consider before adjourning this year, this common sense measure must be counted among our top priorities during the coming lame duck session.” Kevin and Avonte’s Law is endorsed by the Autism Safety Coalition (including The Arc, the Autism Society, Autism Speaks, SafeMinds, and the National Autism Association), the Alzheimer’s Association, the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America, the National Down Syndrome Society, and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. The complete text of the letter can be found here: Kevin Avonte's Law 10-04-16 Letter to Judiciary.pdf ###
09.30.2016	Washington, DC– Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in response to the death of Shimon Peres: “With the death of Shimon Peres, the world mourns the loss of a leading political dove who understood the need for compromise in the quest for peace. Present at the founding of the state of Israel, Shimon Peres held virtually every major cabinet position in government, was prime minister three times, and when he stepped down as president in 2014, he was the world’s oldest head of state. In 1993, he signed the Oslo peace accords, in the presence of Yasser Arafat and Yitzhak Rabin, and a year later, the three men were jointly awarded the Nobel Peace Prize ‘for their efforts to create peace in the Middle East.’ A giant of the 20th century and a global diplomat of international acclaim, Mr. Peres worked hard to defend the peace process, and we will remember him as a man of grand vision and a purveyor of peace until the end.”
09.27.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, introduced Professor Charles J. Ogletree, Jr., Thursday, September 22nd, at a reception on Capitol Hill in his honor hosted by the Alzheimer’s Association, and its sister organization, the Alzheimer’s Impact Movement. Professor Ogletree, the Harvard Law School Jesse Climenko Professor of Law and Founding and Executive Director of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice, recently announced he has been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease and plans to spread awareness of the condition. “Those of us who have known and worked with Professor Ogletree admire his courage, his integrity, and his constant and continuing struggle to stand up for civil rights, especially the civil rights of those who have been oppressed, ignored, and left off of the agenda in American society,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Today, we admire his willingness to share his diagnosis with the world, and we appreciate his decision to spread awareness about Alzheimer’s disease, especially among African Americans, who are about twice as likely to develop Alzheimer’s as whites.” Professor Ogletree has received numerous honors and awards during his career, including the prestigious ABA Spirit of Excellence Award in recognition of his many contributions to the legal profession. In 2008, the National Law Journal named him one of the 50 Most Influential Minority Lawyers in America. Every year since 2006, he has been named by Ebony Magazine as one of the 100+ Most Influential Black Americans. He was presented with the Lifetime Achievement Award when he was inducted into the Hall of Fame for the National Black Law Students Association, where he served as National President from 1977-1978. Professor Ogletree also received the first ever Rosa Parks Civil Rights Award given by the City of Boston, the Hugo A. Bedau Award given by the Massachusetts Anti-Death Penalty Coalition, and Morehouse College’s Gandhi, King, Ikeda Community Builders Prize. Professor Ogletree is the author of many important books and articles on the complex subjects of race, justice, and equality under the law. His areas of interest include capital punishment, juvenile justice, clinical legal education, international law, comparative and foreign law (specifically South Africa), criminal defense law, criminal justice administration, race and the law, and race and criminal justice. “I have worked closely with him over the years on the campaign to eliminate mandatory minimum sentences and on the Wall Street Project,” explained Congresswoman Waters. “Every year, for more than 15 years, Professor Ogletree has joined me as a panelist at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s Annual Legislative Conference, where he discussed mandatory minimum sentences and the devastating impact they have had on so many individuals and families. However, Professor Ogletree did not just explain the issue to lawyers and non-lawyers alike. He also motived and inspired all of us to advocate for change and work for justice in our communities.” As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, Congresswoman Waters is working with her colleagues to expand Alzheimer’s research and address the needs of individuals and families affected by this disease. She succeeded in obtaining a significant increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research this year, when Congress allocated $936 million for Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health in fiscal year 2016. That is an increase of $350 million over the 2015 level. Congresswoman Waters also introduced Alzheimer’s Action Now, a set of bills that together will help Alzheimer’s patients and their families; promote public awareness; and encourage voluntary contributions to research efforts. “I will continue to work closely with Professor Ogletree on all of our mutual interests, and Alzheimer’s will play a prominent role in our work,” said Congresswoman Waters.
09.26.2016	Washington D.C. – Congresswoman Waters, with Congressional Black Caucus Chairman, G. K. Butterfield, led Congressional Black Caucus Members to the Department of Justice to hold a press conference and urge Attorney General Loretta Lynch to bring civil rights investigations for citizens whose civil rights have potentially been violated during unarmed killings by law enforcement. After the press conference, Congresswoman Waters and Chairman Butterfield hand delivered a letter to Attorney General Lynch outlining the Congressional Black Caucus’s concerns and proposed solutions. A portion of Congresswoman Waters’ remarks and the full text of the letter can be found below. “Today, again our hearts are burdened as we mourn the loss of several unarmed black men who have died at the hands of the police. The list ranges from Michael Brown, Eric Gardner, Ezell Ford, Tamir Rice, John Crawford, Walter Scott, Freddie Gray, Saundra Bland, Reika Boyd, and Laquan McDonald, Alton Sterling, Philando Castille and now to Tyree King, a 13-year old boy who was shot dead last week in Ohio for carrying a bb gun, Terence Crutcher who was killed in Tulsa, Oklahoma with his arms raised standing outside of his vehicle and lastly, and just yesterday, Keith Lamont Smith who was killed in Charlotte-Mecklenburg. Mr. King is the third high profile shooting of a black man who was killed for having a weapon while residing in an open carry state. Mr. Crutcher’s car had broken down on the side of the road. He should have been able to call the police for assistance, but instead a police officer took his life. Lastly, the family of Mr. Scott has said that he was reading a book while waiting for his son when he was shot by police. Now, each of these names has been added to a list that continues to grow while our policing remains the same. The killing of unarmed black men and women by police is a crisis. It is an emergency. And it’s not just affecting those victims and families of those killed. It is affecting every black man and woman who wonders when they or someone they know will be killed next. It is affecting every resident of the cities that erupt in protest after each killing. It is affecting the police officers who must continue to protect and serve without the trust of the community. It is affecting each of us who have born witness to these killings for years and fight against the feelings of despair and hopelessness as history continues to repeat itself. Lastly, it is affecting our entire nation, as the divide between the lives of people of color widens in this country. We must do something to end this assault on black men and women. The conversations, the studies and the investigations are not enough. Black citizens must be afforded the right to equal protection by law enforcement and we must commit, as nation, once and for all, to end these killings.” The text of the letter sent to Attorney General Lynch can be found below. The Honorable Loretta E. Lynch Attorney General of the United States U.S. Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20530-0001 Dear Attorney General Lynch: On behalf of the Members of the Congressional Black Caucus we come to you today to urge you to aggressively pursue investigations, indictments and prosecutions, through the Office of Civil Rights, against any and all law enforcement officers who harm or kill innocent, unarmed Black men, women and children. In 2016, 173 Black people have died at the hands of the very law enforcement officers who have been sworn to protect and serve them. Our citizens have prayed, rallied, held press conferences, insisted on better training by police departments, and demanded the use of body cameras to record the actions of law enforcement officers. Meanwhile, many of the victims have held their hands high and cooperated, yet law enforcement officers have not been deterred from targeting, profiling, and killing Black people. Even when body cameras are worn, the technology’s utility is thwarted when officers lose, drop or fail to turn on their cameras, and the incidents are not recorded. Without these video recordings we hear the same excuses from police officers justifying the killing of Black men and women, such as: “He appeared to be reaching for a weapon,” “He appeared to fit the description of someone that just committed a crime in the area,” or “I feared for my life.” Law enforcement officers only seem to offer these excuses after killing Black people. It is time for the Department of Justice to take aggressive action and put an end to what appears to be the targeting and profiling of Black people that result in their death. Officers enjoy the presumption of credibility, whereas victims endure the presumption of guilt. For too long this dynamic has helped to protect law enforcement officers from being brought to justice. We demand thorough investigations within a reasonable time. We will not continue to ask our constituents to be patient without any hope for change. Madam Attorney General, you have the unique opportunity and constitutional responsibility to change this narrative. We believe that every person whose civil rights may have been violated is entitled to a full and complete investigation by the Department of Justice. We demand an expansion of “pattern-and-practice” investigations into rogue police departments and greater transparency in the process by which the determinations on these investigations are made. We also demand that victims have the right to request independent investigations, autopsies and prosecutions. The recording of police confrontations and killings by citizens who document these incidents with their cameras and cellphones and share through social media, have provided you with more evidence than ever before to prosecute these cases and ensure those responsible are brought to justice. The Members of the Congressional Black Caucus will not rest until we have determined that you are using the full power of your office and performing the fullness of your duty to bring about fairness and justice to victims, families and communities who have suffered for far too long at the hands of law enforcement. Americans of all backgrounds have mobilized to express their outrage and fear that our country has lost its way. The world is watching and these killings cannot continue to go unaddressed or ignored by our government. Madam Attorney General, you have the authority and the resources to address these matters. We urge you to aggressively utilize all that is available to you and your office to ensure these killings do not continue. Very truly yours /s/ Rep. G.K. Butterfield Member of Congress Rep. Maxine Waters Member of Congress #####
09.07.2016	WASHINGTON -- Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters responded to the closure of ITT Technical Institute in the following statement: “First, I commend the Department of Education for taking prudent action against ITT as it continued to fail in returning to compliance in several state and federal oversight standards. It comes as no surprise to me that ITT Tech has decided to immediately close its doors today after being subject to standard oversight by the Department said Representative Waters. The closure will affect 40,000 students and 8,000 employees, including many in my district in Torrance, California. My main concern at this time is restoring the valuable time, money and educational opportunities lost due to the company’s misdirected focus on growth and profit instead of its educational programs and students.” Due to a variety of issues that stemmed from ITT’s skyrocketing tuition combined with poor educational courses, at the time of its closure, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Securities and Exchange Commission, and New Mexico Attorney General had all filed lawsuits against the institution for various claims including signing students up for loans without their permission, deceiving investors, and falsifying its nursing school accreditation status. Additionally, several other state Attorneys General were also investigating ITT tech for deceptive recruiting practices. ITT Tech was also subject to a “show cause” order from its accreditor to demonstrate why it should not lose accreditation. Consequently, the Department of Education, in an effort to protect taxpayers and future students, implemented sanctions against the school that banned it from enrolling students who use federal financial aid and required ITT post an additional letter of credit. “ITT Tech is another example of an institution that demonstrates what we have known about some within the for-profit colleges, Waters explained. Many of these schools have not provided students with the quality education or opportunities they have paid for and deserve. Instead, students are saddled with insurmountable debt and few prospects for employment leaving them with an inability to repay their loans and pursue a meaningful career. I am pleased that the Department of Education’s oversight exposed ITT Tech’s mismanagement and I will continue to advocate on behalf of its former students to hold it accountable and provide relief to those impacted.” Since her time as a California Assemblywoman, Congresswoman Waters has fought to hold predatory for-profit colleges accountable to students and taxpayers, most notably when she introduced the Maxine Waters School Reform and Student Protection Act which set a threshold for minimum job placement and graduation rates. Since that time, Congresswoman Waters has introduced several piece of legislation centered around protecting students and taxpayers in the for profit college industry including: the CLASS Act, Students Before Profits Act, and the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act. She also was the first member of Congress to endorse the Corinthian 100, a group of former Corinthian students who initiated a debt strike in opposition to Corinthian Colleges’ fraudulent practices. Most recently, she sent a letter to the Department of Education in support of its oversight over ITT Tech. Its text is posted below. September 2, 2016 The Honorable John B. King Secretary of Education U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, D.C., 20202 Dear Secretary King, I write to express my support over the Department of Education’s decision to ban ITT Educational Services, Inc (ITT) from enrolling new students and for increasing financial oversight of ITT’s financial accountability system. With an ITT campus located in my district, in Torrance, California, and directly impacting my constituents, I am committed to protecting these students and ensuring that they receive a quality education. In that vein, I am deeply concerned with the Department’s ITT findings. According to your letter sent directly to ITT, ITT’s accreditor, the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools (ACICS), determined that the school failed to comply with federal and state student financial aid administration requirements, financial stability, administrative capacity, and student achievement requirements; and admission and recruitment standards. Additionally, you noted that since 2014, you have monitored ITT’s financial and operational compliance, as well as the civil litigation filed against ITT by state and federal law enforcement. Based on this oversight, which has resulted in no less than 8 letters directly to ITT, the basis of your concerns stem from ITT’s financial instability, due to its assets to liabilities ratio of 0.72 and its below-standard student achievement outcome for 8 campuses in both 2014 and 2015. I continue to share your concerns of ITT and the effect its practices may have on students, especially those in my district. I urge the Department to continue its oversight over ITT and its work on policies protecting student borrowers and taxpayers, especially the defense to repayment process which continues to move too slowly and has addressed too few students thus far. Once again, thank you for making the prudent choice to hold schools accountable. I look forward to continuing to work with you to protect vulnerable students within the for-profit college industry. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress
08.12.2016	Washington D.C. - Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued the following statement in response to the United States Department of Justice's 163 page report outlining systemic civil rights violations practiced by the Baltimore City Police Department: “The Department of Justice’s report on the Baltimore Police Department confirms what many in the African American community have known and fought against for years – that all too often, some police officers unfairly target African-Americans for unnecessary stops, searches, and arrests that violate their civil rights, destroy public trust and dismantle the lives of the residents they are sworn to protect, with little to no consequence for their actions. The report also made clear that, in the case of the Baltimore police Department, the discrimination ‘is driven by systemic deficiencies in BPD’s policies, training, supervision, and accountability structures. Given the indictment of the Baltimore Police Department by the Justice Department the question becomes: what role will the Justice Department and the federal government play in ending discrimination within BPD and ensuring the Constitutional rights of African-Americans citizens? Ultimately, the report serves as yet another reminder that we must enact police reform that reviews and transforms police systems at every level throughout this country which will eliminate the tragic loss of lives and restore trust and safety in our communities.”
07.18.2016	Washington, D.C. (July 15, 2016) – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement today in response to the deadly terrorist attack in Nice, France, which killed at least 84 people, including 2 Americans, and injured more than 200 people: “I am once again shocked and appalled by the most recent terrorist attack in France that has killed and injured so many innocent people. This horrific attack was designed to kill large numbers of people while they were celebrating a French national holiday. It is the third major terrorist attack in France in just 19 months. My heart goes out to the victims and their families and the people of France as they recover from this senseless tragedy. “Let us remember also the many innocent people around the world whose lives have been destroyed by violent terrorists. Such ruthless individuals use unconscionable methods to cause people to live in fear while they go about their daily lives. My hope is that, as an international community, we can work together to oppose acts of terrorism, wherever they may occur. “America stands in solidarity with the people of France, and we will keep them in our thoughts and prayers.”
07.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, sent a letter yesterday to the Honorable Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations, urging him to ensure that the UN’s response to the cholera epidemic in Haiti is sufficient to ensure justice for the people of Haiti and maintain the credibility and leadership of the UN. The Congresswoman sent the letter on the three-year anniversary of a response she received from the Secretary-General to a previous letter she had sent him with 18 of her colleagues regarding the epidemic, which began in October of 2010. The text of yesterday’s letter follows: I am writing, as a friend of the people of Haiti and of the United Nations, on the anniversary of your response to the May 30, 2013, letter that I and 18 of my colleagues in the House of Representatives sent you regarding the UN response to the cholera epidemic that UN peacekeepers introduced into Haiti in 2010. I appreciate the letter that you sent us on July 5, 2013, but I am deeply concerned that in the three years since our exchange, Haiti’s cholera epidemic continues to infect and kill Haitians at an alarming rate. Meanwhile, the UN has done little to install the water and sanitation infrastructure necessary to stop the epidemic and nothing to compensate the victims for their losses. According to the Pan American Health Organization, in the first third of 2016, cholera sickened 13,859 Haitians and killed 150, the highest rate for that period since our 2013 letter. Alarmingly, a Doctors Without Borders study published in March indicated that the total death toll of the cholera epidemic could be three to ten times higher than the official figure of nearly 10,000 dead. I appreciate your assurance that you were “personally committed to ensuring that the United Nations and the international community spare no effort to help Haiti in this time of need.” Assistant Secretary-General Pedro Medrano Rojas, appointed to coordinate the UN response, subsequently provided us similar assurances. However, Mr. Medrano left his post a year ago, and has not, to my knowledge, been replaced. Nor has there been evident progress on the infrastructure projects you described in your letter. In response to our concern that the cholera victims’ reasonable demand for compensation was not being considered, your 2013 letter noted that your Legal Counsel had informed the victims that their claim “is not receivable.” But as you know, five top UN human rights experts, in a letter released in March, concluded that this approach “undermines the reputation of the United Nations, calls into question the ethical framework within which its peace-keeping forces operate, and challenges the credibility of the organization as an entity that respects human rights.” I believe that this development provides you an opportunity to reconsider the technical advice provided by your Legal Counsel, in light of the organization’s mandate to promote human rights and the rule of law. The longer that the cholera health crisis has persisted, the more the cholera accountability crisis has grown. As a strong supporter of the UN and its ideals throughout my twenty-five years in the U.S. Congress, it pains me to see the recent revelations that highlight the gap between the UN’s principles and its practices regarding the cholera epidemic, from the nationwide sanitation problems at the MINUSTAH bases to the untenability of the UN’s legal positions. I believe that this accountability crisis is sharply reducing the credibility that the UN needs to carry out its important work, especially promoting stability, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. My colleagues and I in the United States Congress entrust you with substantial sums to fund the UN’s work. Although a just response to the cholera epidemic would require expenditures, squandering the UN’s credibility by not responding justly imperils the effectiveness of billions allocated to current and future UN activities. I therefore urge you to ensure that the UN’s response to the cholera epidemic is sufficient to ensure justice for the people of Haiti and maintain the credibility and leadership of the UN. I appreciate your attention to my concerns, and I look forward to your response. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress
07.07.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, today introduced the LAX Community Safety Act (H.R. 5651). This legislation would prevent Runway 24R, the northernmost runway at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), from being relocated farther to the north. “Relocating LAX’s northernmost runway farther to the north would increase noise, air pollution, and other environmental impacts on residents, schools, churches, and businesses in the communities surrounding LAX,” said Congresswoman Waters. LAX has two pairs of parallel runways: the North Runways, located north of the main terminals, and the South Runways, located south of the main terminals. Runway 24R is the northernmost of the two North Runways. Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), which operates LAX, has proposed relocating Runway 24R at least 260 feet north of its current location, bringing it closer to the residential communities north of LAX. “LAX operations already cause tremendous noise, air pollution and traffic congestion for the communities near LAX,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Relocating Runway 24R closer to Westchester will exacerbate these impacts.” The communities most impacted by the operations of the LAX North Runways include the communities of Westchester and Playa del Rey, which lie along the north side of LAX, and the City of Inglewood and the community of South Los Angeles, which lie to the east of LAX underneath the arrival flight path. Members of these communities have expressed strong opposition to runway relocation. “Safety is a critical concern for LAX,” said the Congresswoman. “That includes both the safety of the airport and all who use the airport and the safety of the surrounding communities. Relocating Runway 24R farther to the north would bring the risk of an aircraft accident closer to homes, schools, churches, and businesses in Westchester and Playa del Rey and, consequently, reduce safety for people who live and work in these communities.” LAWA has argued that relocating the northernmost runway at LAX would improve safety. However, a panel of academic experts studied the configuration of LAX and concluded that the airport is safe under its current configuration.
07.05.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, sent a letter to Ms. Mary Anne Penner, Director of Stamp Services at the U.S. Postal Service (USPS), urging USPS to issue and sell an Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp as the inaugural semipostal stamp under the USPS discretionary Semipostal Stamp Program. The letter was dated July 1, 2016, and signed by a bipartisan group of 41 Members of Congress, including Congresswoman Waters; Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease; and Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA), member of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease. “An Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp will provide an excellent opportunity to raise funds for cutting-edge Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH),” said the Congresswoman and her colleagues in their letter. “A semipostal stamp will simultaneously raise public awareness about Alzheimer’s disease and encourage concerned individuals to get involved and make voluntary contributions to Alzheimer’s research efforts.” The Breast Cancer Research Semipostal Stamp, which was established by an act of Congress, has raised more than $80 million for breast cancer research. USPS recently established a discretionary Semipostal Stamp Program, under which it will issue a total of five additional semipostal stamps over the next ten years, with each stamp being issued and sold for a two-year period. USPS is scheduled to begin considering proposals for the first of these five semipostal stamps today, July 5, 2016. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader in congressional efforts to fight Alzheimer’s disease. She has called for a significant increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research at NIH, and she introduced Alzheimer’s Action Now, a set of bills that together will help Alzheimer’s patients and their families; promote public awareness of Alzheimer’s disease; and encourage voluntary contributions to research efforts. The full text of the letter is below: Ms. Mary Anne Penner Director of Stamp Services Office of Stamp Services ATTN: Semipostal Discretionary Program United States Postal Service 475 L’Enfant Plaza, SW, Room 3300 Washington, DC 20260-5301 Dear Ms. Penner: We write as members of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease and other concerned Members of Congress to urge the United States Postal Service (USPS) to issue and sell an Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp as the inaugural semipostal stamp under the USPS discretionary Semipostal Stamp Program. Alzheimer’s is a devastating disease affecting millions of Americans, and it has reached crisis proportions. An estimated 5.4 million Americans are living with Alzheimer’s disease, and this number could increase to 16 million by the year 2050. Alzheimer’s is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States and the fifth leading cause of death for persons aged 65 and over. Alzheimer’s is the only cause of death among the top 10 causes of death in the United States that has no means of prevention, no cure, and no method for slowing its progression. Alzheimer’s imposes a tremendous burden on families, government and society. The direct costs to American society of caring for Alzheimer’s patients in 2016 are estimated to be $236 billion, including $160 billion that will be spent by Medicare and Medicaid. Furthermore, more than 15 million family members and friends provided more than 18 billion hours of unpaid care to individuals living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias in 2015. The economic value of this unpaid care has been estimated at $221 billion. Our nation is at a crossroads. We must act now to change the trajectory of this disease! The National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease calls for a cure or an effective treatment for Alzheimer’s by the year 2025. Reaching this goal will require a significant increase in federal funding for Alzheimer’s research. An Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp will provide an excellent opportunity to raise funds for cutting-edge Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). A semipostal stamp will simultaneously raise public awareness about Alzheimer’s disease and encourage concerned individuals to get involved and make voluntary contributions to Alzheimer’s research efforts. We therefore respectfully urge that the USPS select the Alzheimer’s Research Semipostal Stamp as its inaugural semipostal stamp. We appreciate your consideration of our concerns. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Christopher H. Smith John Garamendi Co-Chair, Congressional Task Co-Chair, Congressional Task Member, Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease Force on Alzheimer’s Disease Force on Alzheimer’s Disease Chris Van Hollen Ileana Ros-Lehtinen Alcee L. Hastings John J. Duncan, Jr. Linda T. Sánchez Katherine Clark Eleanor Holmes Norton Stephen F. Lynch Marcy Kaptur Steve Cohen Gerald E. Connolly Sanford Bishop Yvette D. Clarke Madeleine Bordallo Donald M. Payne, Jr. James P. McGovern Debbie Dingell Raúl M. Grijalva John Lewis Zoe Lofgren Frederica S. Wilson Ron Kind Janice Hahn Stacey E. Plaskett Karen Bass Grace F. Napolitano Bonnie Watson Coleman John Delaney Ryan A. Costello Mike Fitzpatrick Joyce Beatty Sander Levin Cedric Richmond Corrine Brown William R. Keating Doris Matsui John Yarmuth Jackie Speier ###
06.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of the collapse of a 300-ton crane at the Exxon Mobil refinery in Torrance, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Torrance representative, released the following statement today: “My sympathies are with the three injured contract workers and all of the workers that were affected by today’s collapse of a 300-ton crane at the Exxon Mobil refinery in Torrance. I wish them a speedy and successful recovery. “I am deeply concerned by the history of accidents at the Exxon Mobil refinery, including last year’s February 18th explosion, a September release of modified hydrofluoric acid, and a December release of hydrogen sulfide. While past incidents have involved the release of potentially toxic chemicals, it is fortunate that this incident is not known to have resulted in any leaks and apparently caused only minor injuries. “It would be in the best interests of the workers and the community for Exxon Mobil to undertake a review of all safety protocols at the Torrance refinery in order to avoid accidents that could have been prevented. “While today’s accident did not involve the release of toxic gases or life threatening injuries, it is nevertheless imperative to reiterate that safety is critical to the continuing operation of the Torrance refinery.”
06.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon the first anniversary of the Mother Emanuel AME Church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina: “One year ago today, a man filled with hatred seeking in his words to spark a “race war,” walked into one of our nation’s oldest and preeminent African American institutions and murdered nine innocent people joined together in fellowship and Christian worship. I traveled to Mother Emanuel after the killings and have been back a few times since, and can tell you that you can still feel the pain of the incident in that sanctuary. The congregation carries the heavy weight of history, as we all recall the days when racially-motivated attacks on the Black church were far too common. However, what was clear to all of us after the Charleston massacre and remains true today is that the people of Mother Emanuel never lost their hope and their faith. They met a moment of terror with compassion and forgiveness. On this somber occasion, we reflect on the lives that were taken that day and the many lives that have since ended tragically because of gun violence and hatred. On this day, Members of Congress and policymakers must reflect on our responsibility to the people of Charleston and communities across the country that have been devastated by gun violence. We now live in a time when no place once considered a safe haven is without threat of terror or hatred. No elementary school, university, nightclub, movie theatre, or church is safe in a country that allows people to purchase military style weapons capable of killing many dozens of people at a time. Our resolve must be stronger than any lobby or special interest group. James 2:17 of the Bible instructs that “faith by itself, if not accompanied by action, is dead.” So too is Congress if it continues time and time again to do nothing as our fellow Americans continue to fall victim to gun violence.”
06.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee released the following statement in response to the tragic shooting at Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando, Florida: “This LGBT pride month has taken on even more significance as the nation comes to terms with a senseless and brutal act of terror and hate in Orlando that killed 49 innocent lives. A night of celebration ended in horror, all in a place that so many in the community considered a sanctuary – where they were welcomed and accepted, free from discrimination and hatred. Like so many across the country, I join in the heartache and horror as we all mourn the loss of these young people whose lives were taken from us far too soon. We will never know what contributions they would have made to society, and for that the entire nation grieves these victims as we would our own children. While there are many questions that are yet to be answered, we do know that the attack at Pulse nightclub in Orlando is the deadliest mass shooting in the history of this country – surpassing both the devastating Sandy Hook and Mother Emanuel Church massacres. We also know that the shooting was one in a long line of innumerable acts of violence against the LGBT community – a community the Southern Poverty Law Center tells us is twice as likely to be the target of hate-motivated crimes. My heart aches for the loved ones of those lost and wounded, the citizens of Orlando and the entire nation as we must pull together once again to overcome fear and hatred with strength, pride, and love in the face of unimaginable terror. But beyond pulling together, Congress must act. Moments of silence are not enough. For my colleagues in positions to change the law and implement credible reforms, expressing sorrow and condolences is not enough. My Republican colleagues must be courageous and responsible enough to put politics aside and implement legislation that will prevent the next mass shooting. If we ever expect to put an end to these heartless acts of violence, we cannot go back to business as usual. My Democratic colleagues and I are ready to stand with the American people and do all that we can to reduce all forms of gun violence. It is now time for Republican leadership to join us in this effort and realize that meaningful action is long overdue.”
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) applauds the Department of Education’s proposed regulations to protect students and taxpayers from predatory practices of private, for-profit colleges and universities. Although months of regulation negotiation between advocates, stakeholders and the Department of Education did not result in a consensus in March, many of the provisions in the newly proposed rule are direct suggestions from legislation Congresswoman Waters’ has previously introduced, the Court Legal Access and Student Support Act (CLASS Act). “I strongly support ending the use of forced arbitration agreements in consumer contracts, and am encouraged by efforts at the Department of Education to ensure that consumers can seek relief from predatory practices in court,” said Ranking Member Waters. “Schools that defraud and take advantage of students already turn lives upside down - forced arbitration in these school enrollment agreements protect scam schools and harm our students further. This new regulation will eliminate forced arbitration provisions at schools that benefit from federal funding, and ensure all students have the right to their day in court.” By including forced arbitration clauses in student contracts, for-profit colleges and universities protect their predatory practices that harm students and taxpayers. The CLASS Act would ban this abusive practice of forcing students to sign away their rights as a cost of admission. Congresswoman Waters’ has been a champion of student borrowers and taxpayers against the for-profit college industry since her service as a member of the California State Assembly. She has introduced various bills addressing predatory practices of these institutions including the Students Before Profits Act and the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act, which close a loophole that currently incentivizes for-profit colleges to take advantage of veteran students.
06.14.2016	WASHINGTON – Today, Committee on Education and the Workforce Ranking Member Bobby Scott (VA-03) and Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member on the House Committee on Financial Services, issued the following statement in response to the Department of Education’s Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on borrower defense policies and procedures: “We are pleased to see that in crafting their proposed rule on borrower defense, the Department of Education followed many recommendations we have made over the past few months. Throughout this process, House Democrats have called for an end to mandatory arbitration clauses in higher education; elimination of time limits that could prevent students from pursuing borrower defense claims; establishment of a strong federal standard to protect borrowers from unfair and deceptive practices; and development of a process to facilitate group borrower defense claims. In each of these areas, the proposed rule mirrors or closely adheres to our suggestions, and we thank the Department for taking those suggestions under consideration. “Notwithstanding many of the positive provisions in the proposed rule, there remain areas where the rule can do more. Specifically, the rule limits the ability of the Department of Education to provide debt relief under a state law claim, even one brought by a state attorney general. By limiting the authority of the Secretary of Education to grant relief based on state law claims, some borrowers will not be able to pursue a successful borrower defense claim. Furthermore, we appreciate that the Department’s expansion of what constitutes ‘substantial misrepresentation’ may improve the chances that defrauded borrowers receive relief. “In the coming weeks, we will continue to review the rule to determine whether the department’s proposed borrower defense rule provides maximum protection with minimum paperwork burdens upon defrauded students. Holistically, the proposed rule is a strong first step to ensuring that students who are defrauded by their institutions of higher education are granted justice and relief.”
05.25.2016	Washington, D.C. – Reps. Maxine Waters (CA-43), André Carson (IN-07), Keith Ellison (MN-05), Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), and Mike Quigley (IL-05) applaud the inclusion of language encouraging the establishment of an “accessibility performance measure” in the report to accompany the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2017, which was passed by the Appropriations Committee yesterday. The report encourages the Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with the Federal Highway Administration and the Federal Transit Administration, “to establish an accessibility performance measure to be available to states, metropolitan planning organizations, and transit agencies to assess the degree to which the transportation system, including public transportation, provides multimodal connections to economic opportunities, including job concentration areas, health care services, child care services, and education and workforce training services, particularly for disadvantaged populations.” Congresswoman Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, said: “I applaud the Appropriations Committee’s inclusion of an accessibility performance measure in the FY 2017 THUD report, and I look forward to using this measure to improve the accessibility of our nation’s transportation system, especially for disadvantaged populations in need of access to job opportunities and community services.” Congressman Carson, Ranking Member of the Transportation Subcommittee on Economic Development, said: “I commend my colleagues on the Appropriations Committee for including this vital performance measure to help ensure that economically distressed communities are not left behind in transportation developments. After offering the original Carson-Waters transportation equity provisions in Committee, which were approved by the full House, I look forward to seeing this measure signed into law.” Congressman Ellison, Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said: “Too many Americans are left behind because they are unable to get around, whether it’s to a job interview, a day care center, or a classroom. We can help these Americans by creating more affordable, accessible transportation options. Doing so will help reduce poverty and unemployment, and ease the financial burdens on working Americans and their families. I’m pleased that the Appropriations Committee has included our accessibility performance measure in THUD, and hope it will be included in the final language.” Congressman Grijalva, Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus, said: “An investment in transportation is also an investment in new opportunities for any community involved. These funds have the power to fix crumbling roads and help fight poverty at the same time, but only if we insist on them targeting the communities that need them most. The accessibility performance measure in the FY2017 THUD report will do just that, and I applaud its inclusion.” Congressman Quigley, member of the THUD Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, said: “Public transit improves the quality of life for people in Chicago and around the country by making cities more accessible, livable, and environmentally friendly. The inclusion of an accessibility performance measure in the Fiscal Year 2017 THUD report is a great step forward for families and communities that depend on public transportation for access to childcare, jobs, fresh food and more. I’m proud to have worked with my friends in the Progressive Caucus on this important issue, and will continue pushing for increased public transit accessibility through my role on the House Appropriations Committee.” The five Members of Congress had sent a joint letter to the Appropriations Committee on March 17, 2016, requesting the inclusion of report language facilitating the establishment of an accessibility performance measure. The Members said in their letter: “Transportation networks play a critical role in connecting people to employment opportunities and providing safe, affordable access to essential goods and services, such as health care facilities, child care services, education and workforce training services, financial institutions, and grocery stores. Access to employment opportunities and essential goods and services is especially critical for communities of color, low-income families and people with disabilities.” On October 9, 2015, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.R. 3740, the Integrated Transportation and Economic Development Act, which would have established a performance measure to assess road conditions in economically distressed urban communities. Congressman Carson offered an amendment to include the text of Congresswoman Waters’ bill in the House version of the surface transportation reauthorization bill during its consideration by the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee on October 22, 2015. The Carson-Waters amendment was adopted by the committee and included in the House bill but omitted from the conference report. On October 21, 2015, Congressman Ellison and Congressman Grijalva introduced the Mobility, Opportunity, and Vocation Enabling (MOVE) Act, which would have directed the Secretary of Transportation to develop performance measures for assessing transportation connectivity and accessibility for highway and public transportation systems. Congressman Quigley has been a strong supporter of transportation accessibility within the Appropriations Committee. ###
05.13.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, sent a letter yesterday to Mr. Matthew Rodriquez, Secretary for Environmental Protection at the California Environmental Protection Agency (CalEPA), expressing concerns about water quality issues in the City of Gardena and requesting a written update on these issues on CalEPA letterhead within the next 30 days. The letter follows up on information provided to Congresswoman Waters by Secretary Rodriquez in an email dated March 9, 2016, in response to water quality concerns she had raised previously. The text of the letter follows: “Dear Secretary Rodriquez: “Thank you for your email dated March 9, 2016, in response to my concerns about water quality issues in the City of Gardena (a copy of which is attached). I appreciate the information you provided regarding the background and history of water quality problems in Gardena and the ongoing efforts by Golden State Water Company (GSWC) and the Division of Drinking Water (DDW) to address these problems. I write to request a dated, written update on these issues on CalEPA letterhead. “Individuals and families in the City of Gardena, as well as other communities served by GSWC, have a right to clean water to drink, cook and bathe. Indeed, everyone has a right to safe, clean drinking water in their homes. No one should have to live with dirty, odorous, or contaminated water coming out of their faucets. “Since early 2015, several residents of the City of Gardena have complained about black, foul-smelling tap water coming from their faucets, showers, and toilets. Some residents have refused to drink this “black water,” purchasing bottled water instead. It appears the complaints were concentrated in the Gramercy Place neighborhood. “Unfortunately, these complaints are not new. As you mentioned in your email, there has been a history of customer complaints regarding the quality of the water provided by GSWC to its customers in Gardena, going back to at least 1999. These complaints related to the water’s taste, odor, color and particles. “In your email, you stated, “On March 9, 2015, the service line tap location was relocated to the water main on Gramercy Place. Apparently there have not been any water quality complaints in the Gramercy Place neighborhood since that time.” You also stated that the issue appears to have been resolved, and that the cause is believed to have been “sediments, minerals, iron, manganese, and biofilm.” “Furthermore, DDW instructed GSWC to complete the flushing of a portion of their water system in the Gramercy Place neighborhood, provide local residents with advance notice of flushing activities via postcards and/or door hangers, provide a full incident report, and update their Operations and Maintenance Plan. While you explained that GSWC has taken all of these actions, you nevertheless noted, “DDW is still working with the company to resolve some issues and to modify their procedures.” “Given the impact that contaminated drinking water can have on a community, I believe further information is needed for myself and Gardena residents to remain confident in the water they use to drink, bathe and sustain their daily lives. Therefore, I would like an update of the situation. Specifically, I would like to obtain answers to the following questions: What were the findings of the incident report? What was the likely impact on residents who used the water contaminated with sediments, minerals, iron, manganese, and biofilm? How has GSWC updated their Operations and Maintenance Plan? What are the issues that still need to be resolved? What plans are in place to notify local residents of progress on these issues? What is the likelihood of this problem arising in the future? Most importantly, I would like to know in what ways GSWC’s procedures need to be modified and how these modifications will help to maintain water quality and safety. “I know you share my concerns about drinking water quality in the City of Gardena, and I appreciate your commitment to clean, safe drinking water for individuals and families throughout the State of California. I appreciate your attention to my concerns, and I look forward to your official, written response to these outstanding questions within the next 30 days. “Sincerely, “Maxine Waters “Member of Congress” The signed letter and corresponding email can be viewed here: Congresswoman Waters Gardena Water Quality Letter.pdf
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), a congressional leader on HIV/AIDS issues, called for increases in funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs in fiscal year 2017. The proposed increases were included in two letters to leaders of the House Committee on Appropriations, which were signed by many of the Congresswoman’s congressional colleagues. Congresswoman Waters’ first letter requested an appropriation of $610 million in fiscal year 2017 for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was established under Congresswoman Waters’ leadership in 1998 to address the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS on racial and ethnic minorities. The Minority AIDS Initiative targets funds for HIV/AIDS prevention, screening, treatment, education, and outreach to minority communities heavily impacted by HIV/AIDS. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, the initiative received $437 million in fiscal year 2013 and $425.4 million in fiscal year 2014. The letter, which Congresswoman Waters organized, was signed by a total of 76 Members of Congress. “Racial and ethnic minorities continue to be severely and disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS in the United States,” said Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues in the letter. “Minorities represent the majority of new HIV infections, people living with HIV/AIDS, and deaths among people with HIV/AIDS.” The full text of the letter can be viewed here: 2016 Congresswoman Waters Minority AIDS Initiative.pdf Congresswoman Waters also joined Reps. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Jim McDermott (D-WA) as a co-leader of a letter urging appropriators to increase funding for several domestic HIV/AIDS programs. The letter requests increases in funding for HIV/AIDS care and treatment through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, HIV prevention programs, and HIV/AIDS research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This letter was signed by 87 Members of Congress and can be found online here: 2017 Ryan White Letter.pdf “With more than one million Americans living with HIV/AIDS, Congress must take every bipartisan initiative it can to support the research, prevention, screening, and treatment of this disease,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Our call for robust funding will better support at-risk minority and LGBT communities and bring us closer to finally defeating HIV and AIDS.” Congresswoman Waters has been a consistent advocate for HIV/AIDS response efforts throughout her tenure in Congress. In 1998, she spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative and in subsequent years has continued to advocate for its robust funding. On February 5, 2015, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act of 2015 (H.R. 768) to provide for an effective HIV/AIDS program in federal prisons; the bill now has 35 cosponsors. ###
05.11.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, called for funding to build and repair transportation infrastructure while adequately supporting disadvantaged communities. The requests were included in two letters to the House Committee on Appropriations, which were signed by many of the Congresswoman’s colleagues. Congresswoman Waters’ first letter urged expansion of the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program. TIGER is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies like Metro in Los Angeles County. Previous TIGER grants helped to finance the construction of Metro’s Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor, which will serve the Congresswoman’s district. The letter requests full funding of the President’s request for $1.25 billion for TIGER in fiscal year 2017, as part of an expanded TIGER program that provides $7.5 billion over 6 years. TIGER received $500 million in fiscal year 2016. A total of 138 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman’s letter. “Robust funding for TIGER will help to bring our nation’s transportation infrastructure into the 21st century,” said Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues in the letter. “TIGER grants have helped to finance a wide variety of innovative projects building and repairing roads, bridges, public transit systems, ports, rail lines, and bicycle and pedestrian networks. Moreover, TIGER encourages cooperation between agencies and jurisdictions and often funds multi-modal, multi-jurisdictional projects that are difficult to support through traditional transportation programs.” The full text of the letter can be viewed here: 2016 Congresswoman Waters TIGER Letter.pdf Congresswoman Waters’ second letter requested that the report to accompany the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2017 include language directing the Secretary of Transportation to establish a measure assessing the transportation system’s ability to provide multimodal connections to economic opportunities, particularly for disadvantaged communities. “Transportation networks play a critical role in connecting people to employment opportunities and providing safe, affordable access to essential goods and services, such as health care facilities, child care services, education and workforce training services, financial institutions, and grocery stores,” said the Congresswoman in the letter. “Access to employment opportunities and essential goods and services is especially critical for communities of color, low-income families and people with disabilities.” The full text of the letter and its proposed language can be viewed here: Transportation Accessibility Performance Measure.pdf The letter was cosigned by Representative André Carson (IN-07), member of the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee; Representatives Keith Ellison (MN-05) and Raúl Grijalva (AZ-03), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Progressive Caucus; and Representative Mike Quigley (IL-05), member of the Transportation, Housing, and Urban Development Subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee. Also, the Congresswoman last fall applauded the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s passage of the Carson-Waters amendment, which would ensure equity for economically distressed urban communities in the distribution of Federal highway funds. The amendment was offered at Congresswoman Waters’ request by Congressman Carson during the committee’s consideration of the surface transportation reauthorization bill. The amendment was adopted by the committee by voice vote, and the bill was subsequently reported out of the committee and passed by the House of Representatives. However, the Carson-Waters amendment was droppped from the surface transportation reauthorization bill during conference committee negotiations with the Senate. ###
05.10.2016	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, called for increases in funding for Alzheimer’s research and patient support programs in fiscal year 2017. The proposed increases were included in four letters to leaders of the House Committee on Appropriations, which were signed by many of the Congresswoman’s congressional colleagues. Congresswoman Waters’ first letter requested a $500 million increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), for a total appropriation of $1.491 billion in fiscal year 2017 for research on Alzheimer’s diseane and related dementia. The Congresswoman’s letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 74 Members of Congress. “Alzheimer’s is a tragic disease affecting millions of Americans, and it has reached crisis proportions,” said Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues in the letter. “There is no effective treatment, no means of prevention, and no method for slowing the progression of the disease. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), five million Americans were living with Alzheimer’s disease in the year 2013. This number is expected to almost triple to 14 million by the year 2050.” The full text of the letter can be found by clicking here: Congresswoman Waters NIH Research Letter.pdf Congresswoman Waters’ second letter requested $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program, a Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly find persons with Alzheimer’s disease who wander away from their homes and reunite them with their families. This small, cost-effective program received only $750,000 in fiscal year 2015 and no funds at all in fiscal year 2016. The Congresswoman's letter was signed by 45 Members of Congress. “This program protects the safety of thousands of Americans affected by Alzheimer’s disease and brings peace-of-mind to their families,” said the Congresswoman’s letter. “It also saves time for law enforcement officials and allows them to focus on other security concerns.” The full text of the letter can be found online here: Congressowman Waters Missing Alzheimer's Patients Letter.pdf In addition, Congresswoman Waters joined Rep. Christopher Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, as co-leader of a letter recommending an appropriation of $13.4 million for the Alzheimer’s Disease Supportive Services Program, which provides competitive grants to states to expand evidence-based interventions to help persons with dementia and their caregivers. This letter was signed by 29 Members of Congress. Finally, Congresswoman Water joined Reps. Christopher Smith and John Garamendi (D-CA) as co-leader of a letter requesting $15 million for the Peer Reviewed Alzheimer's Research Program, which funds innovative research at the Department of Defense. This letter was signed by 48 Members of Congress. ###
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C., Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued a statement on the Department of Education’s new proposal to further steps to protect students for predatory for-profit institutions of higher education. As part of an ongoing rule making negotiation centered on debt relief for defrauded students, the Department’s latest suggestions include eliminating mandatory arbitration and class action ban clauses in enrollment agreements. The proposal closely mirrors legislation Congresswoman Waters introduced in March 2015, H.R.2079, the CLASS Act which prohibits the Department of Education from funding any schools that include mandatory arbitration and class action bans in their enrollment agreements. “For too long, unscrupulous institutions of higher education have tricked unsuspecting students and wasted millions of taxpayer dollars under the guise of providing access jobs. These same schools have hid behind the protection of fine line mandatory arbitration and other clauses that strip students of their constitutional right to access to our courts to address the wrongdoing that has occurred. Today, I applaud the Department of Education for finally proposing to hold these for-profits schools accountable and to stat restoring justice for our students. As the Department continues its work in setting regulations for the debt relief progress, I am encouraged that Secretary King and Undersecretary Mitchell have heard the calls from the student and advocate community about these extremely harmful provisions and are now working to bring about reform.” Since her time in the California State Assembly, Congresswoman Waters has been on the forefront of holding for-profit schools accountable and protecting our students and tax payers’ dollars from their fraudulent activity. Most recently, Congresswoman Waters was joined by Congressman Bobby Scott last week in sending a letter to President Obama objecting to previous proposals related to the debt relief negotiation, suggesting that students should be able to apply for relief in groups, the process should be more streamlined and automatic, and that the proliferation of arbitration clauses should be addressed.
03.09.2016	Ranking Members Scott and Waters: Student Borrowers Deserve Immediate Debt Relief after Attending Schools Engaged In Deceptive & Predatory Practices Democratic Leaders on Education and Financial Services Committees Press for Relief to Groups of Students Who Have Been Victims of Predatory Practices Washington – Today, House Education and Workforce Committee Ranking Member Robert C. “Bobby” Scott (D-VA) and House Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent a letter to President Obama urging his Administration to enhance protections for student borrowers as the Department of Education proposes new rules regarding a borrower’s potential defense to repayment. In 2015, the closure of Corinthian Colleges led to over 7,000 students applying for repayment relief, and prompted the Department to address the procedures surrounding how relief is granted to student borrowers. “A postsecondary education is one of the best investments a student can make in his or her future,” the Ranking Members wrote in their letter. “When a school spoils the promise of this pursuit by using unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices against its students, leaving them with serious student loan debt, we must do everything we can to make them whole again by granting student loan relief.” The Department of Education recently released proposed rules for allowing students, like those who attended Corinthian Colleges or any other school that has engaged in similar practices, to clear their student debt. In their letter, Reps. Scott and Waters expressed concern that the Department’s proposal does not adequately ensure a fair process for these students, and asked the Administration to address the time limits imposed on borrowers to make a claim, the standards under which a claim can be brought, and the lack of a group relief standard for whole classes of borrowers affected by the same offense of a school. The text of the letter can be found here and below. ### March 9, 2016 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Ave NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear President Obama: Today, more than ever, a postsecondary education remains the surest path to the middle class for American students and families. Our nation has some of the world’s best colleges and universities, which provide millions of Americans with the skills they need to participate in our 21st century economy. However, recent reports of misconduct, like the findings of the Department of Education (“ED”) that Corinthian Colleges made misrepresentations of job placement rates to students, illustrate that some schools prey on student borrowers through the use of unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices. These borrowers are often left with crushing student loan debt and little to show for it. Victims of these dishonest practices should not be left holding the bag. We are writing to urge you to provide a fair process for making these affected student borrowers whole again through ED’s current borrower defense to repayment (“DTR”) rulemaking. We are disappointed that the draft rules propose a two-year time limit for defrauded borrowers to submit a DTR claim. It may take several years before a student borrower learns that a federal or state entity has found that his school committed an offense that would give the borrower a DTR. Regardless of when the claim is filed, a victimized borrower deserves to be made whole. This is especially true considering the collection process on a student loan can last decades for a distressed borrower. Student borrowers mistreated by their schools cannot discharge their student loans in bankruptcy. If a borrower misses the proposed two year limit, he may have to make as many as 25 years of qualifying payments in hopes of receiving some relief through the loan forgiveness process. Considering the harsh consequences and near-endless time frames that student borrowers face repaying their loans, we urge the Department not to place an arbitrary time limit on when borrowers can file a DTR claim. In addition, we are concerned that the draft standards for DTR may reduce the chances than an average borrower will be able to receive timely relief. Under the proposed regulations, a borrower can pursue a DTR claim against a school four ways: if the borrower obtains a judgment against the school; if the school breaches a contract with the borrower; if the school or its representatives make a substantial misrepresentation that the borrower relied upon in deciding to attend the school; or if an act or omission of their school gives rise to a cause of action against the school under applicable State law (the current standard, which will remain in effect for loans disbursed before July 2017). On their face these new standards improve the ability of a borrower to make a successful claim, but each of these standards will in practice rely heavily on legal proceedings, limiting the ability of the average person to negotiate them alone. The regulation also fails to address the proliferation of binding arbitration clauses in higher education, which have the potential to keep even the most legally adept borrowers out of court and prevent them from doing the discovery necessary to succeed on a borrower’s defense claim. The regulation does not take this reality into account. While the findings of an investigation conducted by a state attorney general or a federal agency could provide the facts necessary for a student borrower to proceed on a DTR claim, such findings do not guarantee a borrower will have a successful claim. The discovery of a substantial misrepresentation by one of these offices starts the two-year clock on a borrower’s ability to make a claim, as a school could argue that the existence of findings or a settlement agreement could be reasonably discovered by a borrower. Settlements between schools and agencies are sometimes quite protracted, and often include no admission of guilt or wrongdoing that a borrower might need to bring a successful claim. Furthermore, the draft regulations could have created a rebuttable presumption that a successful DTR exists, for an individual or a group, if a substantial misrepresentation is found by a state attorney general or agency, but the proposed regulations did not establish such a presumption. Each claimant, therefore, must prove his individual case and ED would have to individually consider, each and every case. Without a clearer picture of the fact-finding process to be established by the Secretary to resolve these claims, it is difficult to see how these new standards will improve the chances an average defrauded borrower has to receive timely relief. Taking these failings into account, it is troubling that the draft regulation sunsets the ability to pursue a DTR claim under the current standard – any act or omission of the school that relates to the making of the loan or the provision of educational services that would give rise to a cause of action against the school under applicable State law. State consumer protection laws against unfair and deceptive acts and practices (UDAP), could be a strong backstop for borrowers. The fact that new borrowers will not be able to avail themselves of these laws to pursue a DTR claim in the future will make the pursuit of a successful DTR claim challenging. Finally, we are disappointed that the draft rules do not propose to grant relief to a group of students who have all been similarly mistreated by an institution. While a group of student borrowers can pursue a claim together under common facts, relief is limited to the group that applied. Once a successful DTR claim has been granted to one or more students, other students similarly affected should become immediately eligible for the same relief and not have to file a new claim. Preventing group relief, and asking victimized students to individually prove evidence of misconduct, is unnecessarily burdensome. When clear evidence of misrepresentation or misconduct exists, we urge the Department to reach out to all affected borrowers and grant group discharges rather than placing an individual burden on each defrauded student. A postsecondary education is one of the best investments a student can make in his or her future. When a school spoils the promise of this pursuit by using unfair, deceptive, or abusive practices against its students, leaving them with serious student loan debt, we must do everything we can to make them whole again by granting student loan relief. Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to your response. Very truly yours, Robert C. “Bobby” Scott Maxine Waters Ranking Member Ranking Member House Committee on Education & the Workforce House Committee on Financial Services
02.03.2016	Washington, D.C., -Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement on the Federal Trade Commission’s announcement to sue for-profit college operator DeVry Education Group. DeVry is the latest in a long line of for-profit colleges who are finally being held accountable for fraudulent practices that have come to light. Similarly to Corinthian Colleges Inc., one of the largest for-profit colleges which closed in May 2015, DeVry Education Group’s main institution—DeVry University-- is accused of deceiving thousands of students with false claims about employment prospects. Waters released the following statement: “The FTC has found that since at least 2008 DeVry University nationally advertised false claims that 90% of its students actively seeking employment after graduation found positions in their fields of choice within six months, but in reality the number of employed DeVry graduates was significantly less. Not only were the school’s promises untrue, but they convinced as many as 300,000 students to enroll in programs that would only saddle them with unmanageable debt loads and lead them through fruitless job hunts with worthless degrees. It is unacceptable that DeVry University has received over 5 billion dollars in federal aid to enroll prospective students; many of whom are servicemembers, veterans and low-income individuals. For over a year now, almost every month we hear about another for-profit college that is under investigation or under scrutiny for its fraudulent conduct. Taxpayer dollars should not be bankrolling institutions that abuse and defraud students. It is imperative that we implement procedures and policies that hold all for profits accountable to ensure that they provide our students with a quality education that leads to a fulfilling and productive career. We cannot continue to wait until fraud has occurred, tax dollars have been spent and precious students’ time has been wasted to act. I will continue to fight as I have for my entire career to curb the rampant scam so many for-profit universities have been guilty of propagating.” Since her time as a California Assemblywoman, Congresswoman Waters has fought to hold predatory for-profit colleges accountable to students and taxpayers, most notably when she introduced the Maxine Waters School Reform and Student Protection Act which set a threshold for minimum job placement and graduation rates. Since that time, Congresswoman Waters has introduced several piece of legislation to prevent the next Corinthian including: the CLASS Act, the Students Before Profits Act, and the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act. She also was the first member of Congress to endorse the Corinthian 100, a group of former Corinthian students who initiated a debt strike in opposition to Corinthian Colleges’ fraudulent practices.
01.14.2016	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement at the Save Keiro Press Conference on January 14th at First Southern Baptist Church in Gardena. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows. “Good morning and thank you all for coming together to protect our seniors who we value dearly. I would like to start by commending the Ad Hoc Committee to Save Keiro, a group of dedicated citizens, led by Committee Chairman Dr. Charles Igawa who has been the force behind this movement to save Keiro and has gathered us here today. “I would also like to thank those standing beside me today, my colleague, Congresswoman Judy Chu, who serves the 27th district here in California in the U.S. House of Representatives, as well as former California Assemblyman and friend George Nakano. “Lastly, I would like to thank four other organizations, Bet Tzedek and the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles, the law offices of Gibson Dunn and Crutcher Law Firm, and the California Advocates for Nursing Home Reform Organization, who have all volunteered their invaluable assistance, time and resources in this effort. “The Ad Hoc Committee, Congresswoman Chu, Mr. Nakano, and I are all here today to voice our objections to a sale that will ultimately close the facilities of Keiro Senior Healthcare and end its free and long standing health and residency services for Japanese American seniors. This sale which may happen as early as the end of this month could cause as many as 600 low income Japanese Americans to lose their residences and medical services. “We cannot stand idly by and watch this happen. We owe this to our seniors and Japanese American community to fight back. So, we are here today, to call on the Attorney General to reverse the sale of Keiro to Pacifica Companies, LLC so that these seniors’ residences and healthcare will be protected. “Before I go into further details regarding the sale, let me take a minute to discuss the Keiro Senior Healthcare facility, its residents and the role it plays in our community. Since 1961, Keiro has been a trusted senior resource in the Japanese American community. With facilities located just across the street in my district in Gardena, as well as Boyle Heights and Lincoln Heights, Keiro has grown to become the largest non-profit healthcare organization serving the Japanese American community in the country. “The healthcare center has served over 130,000 families and was built upon the cultural value of respecting our elders. For over 50 years, a committed community, a competent and caring staff, and hundreds of dedicated volunteers have implemented this value to provide compassionate care and programs for Japanese American seniors in their twilight years. “Now today, with one in five Japanese Americans over age 65, which is almost twice the national average, it is more necessary than ever that Keiro remains dedicated to providing health and residency services for our Japanese American community. “Many of these seniors sold everything they owned in Japan with the firm belief that they could spend the rest of their lives in Keiro facilities. “In spite of this proud history and noble mission, late last year I was notified that Keiro is being sold to a for-profit real estate development corporation, Pacifica Companies, LLC, a company whose corporate objective does not align with Keiro’s current mission or the values of the community it serves. “While it is always important to pay close attention when non-profits are being sold to for-profit entities, the specific events surrounding this sale are particularly troubling. First, no public hearing was held regarding the proposed sale as is traditionally held. Residents and family members of the Keiro community did not have the opportunity to express their concerns or objections over the sale. Far too often, seniors and low income citizens are left without a voice and a say over those decisions that most materially impact their lives. “Second, this sale places limited and insignificant conditions on the buyer, Pacifica Companies, LLC to protect the current Keiro residents and families. Specifically, Pacifica Companies, LLC is not required to extend the same level of cultural care and support of Keiro’s existing programs. It is this cultural care that forms the foundation of Keiro’s existence and what makes the health care center so invaluable to our community. Yet, if this sale goes through, this could all be lost. “Third, and most troubling, the current sale terms allow for a potential increase in assessment fees on the residential and healthcare services. This increase could potentially render Keiro facilities unaffordable for many of the current low-income, Japanese Americans the centers were designed to serve. Simply put, this is not right, it is not fair, and it is not just. “As a Member of Congress with the South Bay Keiro Nursing Home in my district, I feel a sincere responsibility to assist the elderly and the low-income seniors in the fight for justice and fairness. “I have consistently expressed my firm commitment to the Ad Hoc Committee that I support them and their every effort to reverse this sale and preserve Keiro’s nonprofit services for the Japanese American elderly. “I am pleased to say that in November at a town hall meeting led by the Ad Hoc Committee, Congresswoman Chu and myself, residents, patients, and proud donors of Keiro also expressed their support of the healthcare center and discussed efforts to reverse the sale. “Over 500 people attended this town hall, and I am pleased to see many of you here today still continuing in the effort to speak up and take part in the discussion to protect our seniors. “It was also at this meeting where Keiro residents first learned that they were robbed of their opportunity for a public hearing to express opposition. Several residents shared how they felt blindsided and helpless. “Prior to the town hall meeting, I placed a call to the California Attorney General and arranged a meeting for her team to come to Los Angeles to meet with the Ad Hoc Committee, and the Ad Hoc Committee shared their concerns. Officials from the Attorney General’s office agreed to review the concerns that the Ad Hoc Committee shared with them. “As opposition to the sale continued to grow, I alerted two renowned Pro Bono legal firms, Bet Tzedek and the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles. Today, I am pleased to announce that these firms are partnering with an outstanding private legal firm, Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, and the California Advocates for Nursing Home Reform organization, to collectively represent the low-income, Japanese American senior residents of Keiro in an investigation and evaluation of the proposed sale. “To date, the Attorney General’s team that we met with has not responded to our concerns and a recent conversation with the Attorney General was an offer by her to meet with all of the concerned individuals to discuss their concerns. While we are considering having a meeting with the Attorney General, the Ad Hoc Committee, Bet Tzedek, the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles, Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, the California Advocates for Nursing Home Reform organization and Pacifica Companies, LLC, we remain adamant in our insistence that this sale must be stopped. “We must continue to speak out against this sale, its one-sided terms and lack of transparency. We must continue to advocate for the rights of those elderly Japanese American residents whose voices have yet to be fully heard. “The threat of losing such comprehensive and unique care is utterly unacceptable, and I will not stop in my requests for a public hearing, a more transparent process, and more protection for our elderly Japanese Americans. “So again, I would like to commend the Ad Hoc Committee to Save Keiro for their genuine and tireless commitment to fight against injustice in their community, and I thank Congresswoman Judy Chu and Mr. George Nakano. I also thank Bet Tzedek, the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles, Gibson Dunn and Crutcher, and the California Advocates for Nursing Home Reform organization for taking part in this critical press conference with me. “Most of all, I applaud all of you here today helping to address and make clear that we will continue to fight for a fair and inclusive process that involves the community and ensures adequate protection to our Japanese American seniors.”
01.12.2016	LOS ANGELES – On Thursday, January 14th at 10:00 a.m. PST at the First Southern Baptist Church in Gardena, California, the Ad Hoc Committee to Save Keiro, along with special guests, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking member of the Committee on Financial Services, and Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27) will bring together Keiro Senior Healthcare (“Keiro”) residents and Asian-American advocacy groups to make a special appeal to the the Attorney General of California to reverse the impending sale of Keiro to Pacifica Companies LLC (“Pacifica”), a privately owned real estate development company. Keiro is the largest not-for-profit healthcare organization serving the Japanese-American community. Keiro serves more than 600 residents at campuses in South Bay, Boyle Heights and Lincoln Heights. This event is open to the press. WHO: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Congresswoman Judy Chu (CA-27) Ad Hoc Committee to Save Keiro WHAT: Press conference to make special appeal to the Attorney General of California to reverse the impending sale of Keiro to Pacifica. WHEN: Thursday, January 14, 2016 at 10:00 a.m. PST WHERE: First Southern Baptist Church, 1025 Marine Avenue, Gardena, California RSVP: Jocelyn.Steele@mail.house.gov
01.12.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement on President Obama’s State of the Union Address. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows. “As our nation continues to face uncertain times, President Obama delivered a message to inspire and encourage Americans that hope remains despite the unproductive partisanship, tragic cases of senseless violence and threats of terror that we have faced over the last year. The President touched on several issues that have remained priorities for me throughout my career including, criminal justice reform and the eradication of HIV/AIDS. But, I was particularly pleased to hear the President’s focus on giving everyone a fair shot at opportunity and security which is and always has been the center piece of my work. “As the President explained, the American economy is doing well and anyone denying that fact is simply false. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, I can attest that since the passage of Wall Street Reform, our financial markets are indeed stable and secure, banks are making profits, lending has increased, unemployment is down and monthly job growth remains consistent. Yet, as the President went on to emphasize, as more and more of our nation’s wealth is concentrated at the very top, we should not pretend that all is well for all Americans. Broad-based, generational and systemic inequities continue to distort progress and opportunity for tens of millions of Americans – most especially low and middle-income Americans and communities of color. So, although the President emphasized that food stamp recipients did not cause the financial crisis, but recklessness on Wall Street did; it is those same food stamp recipients or other low-income Americans that continue to endure its consequences. It is long overdue that we end this unfair burden. “To do so, the President suggested two ways. First, he recommitted his intention to make college more affordable for all Americans. College is just too expensive, and students across our country should be able to attend community colleges without having to drown in an exorbitant amount of debt just to get a quality education. I agree with President Obama that two years of community college should be free for students to achieve their long-term goals and secure their futures. Every American deserves the right to advance and obtain an education that will create more opportunities. These opportunities turn into careers and good paying jobs that will assist in closing the ever widening gap between the haves and have-nots. “Second, the President continued to emphasize the need for innovation, entrepreneurship and the importance of small businesses. I have always supported small businesses and increasing the number of small business owners in the country. Small businesses are the backbone of the American economy. They help stimulate the economy by creating jobs, new products and services for cities and communities. This focus falls in line with the President’s long-term goal of ensuring that every American is able to improve the financial security for their families. “Thus, this year I will continue to introduce reform in the areas of housing, consumer protection, income security, and community development that ameliorate the structural disadvantages that create these inequities that persist along class, racial and ethnic lines in this country. Just as President Obama remains optimistic and positive about our country's future, I, too, remain committed and determined to work hard in Congress to ensure that Americans, from all walks of life, have the opportunity to achieve the American dream. I will continue to fight to implement policies that reduce the wealth gap, provide public housing, work to end homelessness and preserve access to affordable rental housing targeted to low-income families, bolster protections for the investing public, and lower the cost of capital for all American businesses, those large and small. I look forward to bringing forth the extraordinary change that this country needs. ” ###
01.01.2016	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement concerning the passing of Former Ohio Congressman Mike Oxley. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows: "I was deeply saddened to hear of the passing of my former colleague, Congressman Mike Oxley. Congressman Oxley and I served together on the Committee on Financial Services while he was the Chairman. During that time, he was one of the authors of the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which ensured that publicly traded companies were held accountable after the many corporate scandals in the early 2000’s. "Congressman Oxley was a skilled leader and passionate policymaker. He also had an adept ability to encourage our colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work together to create policy to help businesses and consumers. For his legacy, he is to be commended. "My thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Oxley’s family during this time of bereavement."
01.01.2016	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement on recent terrorist attacks in Nigeria. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows: “My heart goes out to the people of Nigeria after the recent malicious terrorist attacks that killed and injured many innocent people. These heinous attacks, once again, remind us of just how determined these extremist groups are to create fear, divisiveness and panic around the world. “While there was not significant attention given to the attacks in Nigeria, we will not allow this type of brutality and violence to prevent us from working as part of an international coalition to develop solutions to fight terrorism and to make the world a safer and more tolerant community of nations. “I will keep the victims and their families in my prayers as they continue to deal with the aftermath of these terrible tragedies.”
01.01.2016	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement concerning the untimely passing of Natalie Cole today. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows: “The world has truly lost an extraordinary artist today. Natalie Cole was a fantastic talent who made an indelible mark internationally due to her remarkable talent, poise and grace. Throughout her career, Ms. Cole’s songs have served as the soundtrack to many remarkable moments in many people’s lives, including my own. "We appreciate and value her unparalleled contributions to the arts and the timeless duet of “Unforgettable” with her father, the late Nat King Cole. "My prayers and condolences are with Ms. Cole’s entire family. She may no longer be with us physically, but her undeniable legacy prevails.”
12.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, announced her support of the Omnibus Appropriations Bill’s inclusion of robust funding for Alzheimer’s disease research, programs for Alzheimer’s caregivers and the Minority AIDS Initiative. This bill funds these initiatives for Fiscal Year 2016. Despite the fact that Congresswoman Waters did not agree with all of the allocations in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill, she is appreciative of the additional funding for Alzheimer’s disease initiatives due to the work she has done to obtain additional resources to help Alzheimer’s patients and caregivers. “I have fought for additional resources for the Alzheimer’s disease research and caregivers throughout the year. I am pleased that my colleagues in Congress have voted to ensure that Alzheimer’s disease initiatives are top priorities,” said Congresswoman Waters. The omnibus bill allocates $936 million for Alzheimer’s disease research at the National Institutes of Health in Fiscal Year 2016, an increase of $350 million over the Fiscal Year 2015 level. The Congresswoman has fiercely advocated for additional funding and resources for Alzheimer’s disease research. Congresswoman Waters, Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-4) and Congressman John Garamendi (CA-3) sent a letter to appropriators requesting a substantial increase in funding for Alzheimer’s research, and it was signed by a total of 63 Members of Congress. The omnibus bill also includes funding for the Alzheimer’s Disease Supportive Services Program (ADSPP), which aids families and caregivers affected by Alzheimer’s disease. ADSSP funds competitive grants to states to expand evidence-based interventions and long-term services to help patients with dementia and their caregivers. Last March, Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Christopher Smith circulated a letter in support of this program, which was signed by 21 Members of Congress. “I was pleased to learn that funding for this program was increased by more than 25 percent, from $3.8 million in fiscal year 2015 to $4.8 million in fiscal year 2016,” said Congresswoman Waters. In addition, the omnibus bill appropriates $14.7 million for the Alzheimer’s Disease Initiative - Specialized Supportive Services program. This initiative provides specialized, person-centered services that help caregivers and Alzheimer’s patients to remain independent and safe in their communities. This initiative was launched in 2011 with a new website – alzheimers.gov – and a variety of outreach materials were developed. The initiative will continue to promote the new website to caregivers and associated organizations using materials already developed. Congresswoman Waters added, “I am focused on ensuring that caregivers have the support they need. Caring for a person living with Alzheimer’s is exhausting and draining, and this initiative will give families support as they deal with this debilitating disease.”
12.21.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, announced her support of the Omnibus Appropriations Bill’s inclusion of robust funding the Minority AIDS Initiative. This bill funds this initiative for Fiscal Year 2016. Despite the fact that Congresswoman Waters did not agree with all of the allocations in the Omnibus Appropriations Bill, she is appreciative of the increased funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative that she led the efforts to establish. “I have fought for funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative throughout the year. I am pleased that my colleagues in Congress have voted to ensure that the Minority AIDS Initiative is a top priority,” said Congresswoman Waters. The Omnibus Appropriations Bill allocates $53.9 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative Secretary’s Fund, one of the four Minority AIDS Initiative accounts. This is an increase of $1.9 million above the 2015 enacted level. Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to appropriators in March requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative, and it was signed by 66 Members of Congress. The Congresswoman also sent a second letter to appropriators on December 9th requesting robust funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative, and it was signed by 48 Members of Congress. The Minority AIDS Initiative is needed to help minority communities combat disproportionate HIV/AIDS infection rates. African Americans account for 44% of new HIV infections, Latinos account for 21%, and Asian Americans account for about 2% of new HIV infections. Congresswoman Waters said, “Racial and ethnic minorities continue to be severely and disproportionately impacted by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States. Minorities represent the majority of new HIV infections, people living with HIV/AIDS, and deaths from AIDS. The Minority AIDS Initiative is a critical tool in the effort to combat these unacceptable disparities, and this funding will help continue the progress that has already been made.” Other Minority AIDS Initiative accounts were not specified in the bill but are expected to receive as much as or slightly more than last year, for a total of more than $425.2 million across all four accounts of the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2016.
12.19.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, delivered good news to attendees at the Actively Caring Through Sharing Support Group for Women and Men Caregivers Meeting (ACTS) on Saturday, December 19, 2015 in Los Angeles. As a longtime advocate for Alzheimer’s disease caregivers, the Congresswoman educated the caregivers on the robust funding for Alzheimer’s disease research and Alzheimer’s caregivers programs included in the Fiscal Year 2016 budget that Congress passed last week. “I am very pleased that this robust funding will help caregivers offer emotional, physical and financial support to their loved ones who are battling Alzheimer’s disease. This additional funding will help provide caregivers with the resources that they need to provide the best care for their loved ones,” stated Congresswoman Waters. The omnibus bill includes funding for the Alzheimer’s Disease Supportive Services Program (ADSPP), which aids families and caregivers affected by Alzheimer’s disease. ADSSP funds competitive grants to states to expand evidence-based interventions and long-term services to help patients with dementia and their caregivers. The funding for this program was increased by more than 25 percent, from $3.8 million in fiscal year 2015 to $4.8 million in fiscal year 2016. Last March, Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Christopher Smith (NJ-4) circulated a letter in support of this program, which was signed by 21 Members of Congress. In addition, the budget appropriates $14.7 million for the Alzheimer’s disease Initiative - Specialized Supportive Services program. This initiative provides specialized, person-centered services that help caregivers and Alzheimer’s patients to remain independent and safe in their communities. This initiative was launched in 2011 with a new website – alzheimers.gov – and a variety of outreach materials were developed. The initiative will continue to promote the new website to caregivers and associated organizations using materials already developed. “This funding will make a tremendous difference in the lives of many caregivers, and I was pleased to provide the caregivers in ACTS information about what my fight to ensure programs that offer resources to them have the necessary funding to continue supporting their efforts,” stated Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters has introduced legislation to help caregivers, such as Alzheimer’s Action Now, a set of bills that together will help Alzheimer’s patients and their families, promote public awareness, and encourage contributions to research efforts. Also included in Alzheimer’s Action Now is the Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act, which authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for caregivers of Alzheimer’s patients.
12.18.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement after the Los Angeles Unified School District closed 900 schools after receiving a threat via email on Tuesday. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows: "I fully support the Los Angeles Unified School District’s (LAUSD) decision to close all schools on Tuesday after receiving an electronic threat. After thorough investigation by officials, the electronic threat against LAUSD on was determined not to be credible. "While it is unsettling and disturbing that someone would engage in a hoax of this nature and magnitude, I am grateful that the students and citizens of Los Angeles are safe, and I remain committed to ensuring that the more than 660,000 students in the District are protected and potential dangers are thwarted. "Although the threat was ultimately determined not to be credible, I believe that LAUSD officials carefully considered the threat and took appropriate and timely actions in the best interest of thousands of students, teachers and staff. "Therefore, I commend the efforts of the LAUSD Superintendent Ramon Cortines, LAUSD Police Chief Steve Zipperman, LAUSD President Steve Zimmer and the other School Board members, Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti, Los Angeles City Council members, and Los Angeles Police Department Chief Charlie Beck for working collaboratively to be proactive, intentional and deliberate. "I also commend the cooperation of the entire Los Angeles community, including parents, students and businesses that were gracious in allowing flexible work hours to accommodate parents picking up their children. Safety is the main priority, and I am committed to working with LAUSD officials and other city leaders to evaluate emergency protocol and plans when these types of threats are issued."
12.15.2015	LOS ANGELES - Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of Committee on Financial Services, and Congressman Ted Lieu (CA-33) delivered remarks at the 14th Annual State of the Region event sponsored by the Torrance Area Chamber of Commerce on Monday, December 14th at the DoubleTree by Hilton Torrance-South Bay in Torrance. Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Lieu were invited by the Chamber to give updates about the legislation and economic development opportunity affecting the South Bay region. Congresswoman Waters opened her remarks by giving an update on budget negotiations in Congress. She informed the audience of the continuing negotiations in Congress pertaining to finalizing a budget and educated them on policy riders that jeopardize negotiations. In addition, Congresswoman Waters discussed the impending interest rate increase being discussed by Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congresswoman Waters’ remarks focused on the historic efforts she led to renew the Export-Import Bank, which provides critical support to the United States exporters looking to compete and sell products to foreign markets. Some of those suppliers such as Boeing and Space X are in the South Bay region. "We worked with a diverse coalition, including The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers, small businesses and labor groups such as the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers to ensure the Bank could get back to the business of growing jobs and supporting American exporters," said Congresswoman Waters. The Congresswoman also discussed job creation, business development and major developments in the South Bay Region, such as the $200 million dollar renovation of the Del Amo Mall in Torrance and the football stadium in Inglewood that is scheduled to open in 2018. "These new developments and initiatives will bring more revenue to the region. When the local economy thrives, more people in this region will start businesses and even more jobs are created," said Congresswoman Waters. Homelessness was also a major focus. The Congresswoman discussed the work she has done to increase federal investments in public housing, homeless and rental housing assistance for vulnerable population. Congresswoman Waters guided the passage of the reauthorization of the McKinney Vento Homeless Assistance program, and worked to support federal funding for programs such as the Los Angeles County Continuum. The Congresswoman also fought to ensure that federal funds support permanent supportive housing for chronically homeless veterans and seniors. "Homelessness is a major issue across the country, especially among veterans. I am determined to ensure that the men and women who valiantly serve this country have homes. Vermont Villas in Harbor Gateway is a new development that recently opened due to private and public sector funding to reduce the number of homeless veterans and elderly residents living on the streets. We need more developments of this kind across the country, and I have focused my efforts to achieve this goal," said the Congresswoman. The Congresswoman also discussed the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act) that Congress recently passed. The FAST Act includes $3.7 billion in bus and bus facilities funding, a 75 percent increase over current funding levels that will help transit agencies in the South Bay region. "I am pleased that this additional funding will help agencies such as the Torrance Transit in the City of Torrance, and GTrans in the City of Gardena to expand and improve services and reduce traffic congestion," stated the Congresswoman. At the conclusion of her remarks, Congresswoman Waters complimented the Torrance Chamber of Commerce and the other Chambers of Commerce in the area for the work they do to improve the business climate and the care they have shown by providing resources for the vulnerable in our society such as the homeless.
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement after the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community Baitus-Salaam Mosque and the Islamic Center of Hawthorne were vandalized in Hawthorne, California. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows: "I am saddened, shocked and appalled that two Hawthorne mosques, the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community-Baitus-Salaam Mosque and the Islamic Center of Hawthorne, were vandalized on Sunday. These mosques are sacred places where families go to worship and to pay reverence to their religious ideals and beliefs. It is sacred ground that should never face such damage and disrespect. "In light of the recent events, many in the Muslim community are concerned that they are being targeted and persecuted for their religious beliefs. There is also no proof that members of the mosques in Hawthorne have been radicalized or have engaged in any terroristic behavior. These types of fears and trepidations should not exist in America. Our country was founded on principles that allow Americans to be able to worship freely and without threat of danger. The Constitution gives every American the right to religious freedom, a freedom etched in the fabric of our country’s ideals and values. "These egregious acts of divisiveness at the mosques in Hawthorne have no place in our society. It goes against who we are as a country. No religious group or culture should face harassment or be made to fear their beliefs are forbidden. Making Muslims – or any other religious group – feel threatened, intimidated or unwelcome in local communities conflicts with our Founders’ vision of religious liberty and tolerance."
12.10.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement following comments made by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia in the Fisher v. University of Texas at Austin (Fisher II) U.S. Supreme Court case. “I am appalled by the inflammatory remarks Supreme Court Justice Scalia offered yesterday that implied that black people were intellectually less capable than other Americans and therefore should not attend schools of high academic rigor. Justice Scalia’s comments are unacceptable under any circumstance, but are especially alarming coming from the bench of the nation’s highest court, where this kind of thinking has no place. Specifically, Scalia stated that “maybe [the University of Texas] ought [emphasis added] to have fewer” African Americans. Justice Scalia’s comments resurrect a sentiment that prevailed during the Jim Crow, ‘separate but equal’ era; a sentiment that enabled the legal confinement of African Americans to the inferior and underfunded spaces of our nation, and ultimately relegated them to a second-class life. This sentiment is indicative of a court that, in recent years, has already taken steps to undermine affirmative action and the Voting Rights Act. "It is disappointing and disturbing that a member of the Supreme Court holds beliefs that continue to perpetuate the idea that African Americans should only occupy second-rate spaces. Although his comments were made in the context of education, the idea that African Americans are less deserving of quality access and opportunity permeates all aspects of our lives. It is why African Americans are more likely to be targets of predatory consumer products, charged more for home mortgages, denied good-paying jobs, or subject to countless other forms of discrimination and injustices on a daily basis. "Furthermore, Justice Scalia’s comments suggest that African American students should be resigned to an education afforded by private, post-secondary colleges, or for-profit colleges, which have been the subject of ongoing fraudulent scandals for decades. I have spent my career exposing the truth about these institutions and their predatory marketing practices that lure African American and other vulnerable student populations into enrollment and saddle them with debt, while failing to provide a quality education or the necessary skills and training to enter the workforce. It is troublingly offensive and dangerous that Justice Scalia believes this is the type of education that Black students ought to receive. "It is my sincere hope that these comments not only serve as a reminder of the type of thinking that still exists at the highest level of decision making in this country, but that they also compel action from lawmakers and others to continue our fight to eradicate this disturbing philosophy engrained into many of our laws. I also hope that the many African American students enrolled in universities, law schools, or medical schools and any institution where African Americans are not always welcome or accepted will not internalize Justice Scalia’s comments but will continue to persevere and strive for excellence as they do every day in a society that all too often fails to celebrate and uplift black excellence and academic achievement."
12.10.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, introduced the Minority Diabetes Initiative Act (H.R. 4209). This bill will establish an initiative to provide grants to physicians and community-based organizations for diabetes prevention, care and treatment programs in minority communities. The bill is supported by 42 of the Congresswoman’s congressional colleagues. "Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, and it is having a severe impact on minority communities," said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), among persons at least eighteen years of age, 8.9 percent of Asian Americans, 12.2 percent of Latino Americans, 13.2 percent of African-Americans and 17.5 percent of American Indians/Alaska Natives have been diagnosed with diabetes. "Diabetes can lead to serious and sometimes deadly complications, including high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, blindness, kidney disease, nerve damage, and lower-limb amputations. Minorities with diabetes often lack access to quality health care and are more likely to suffer from complications and even die from diabetes," said Congresswoman Waters. The CDC calculated that compared to non-Hispanic whites, Hispanics are 40 percent more likely to die from diabetes; African-Americans are twice as likely to die from diabetes; and American Indians/Alaska Natives are almost twice as likely to die from the disease. The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will provide grants for a variety of diabetes-related health services, including public education on diabetes prevention and control, routine health care for diabetic patients, eye care, foot care and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes. "The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will help reduce the incidence of diabetes among minorities and enable those affected to live healthy and productive lives," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
12.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. - Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, and a congressional leader on HIV/AIDS issues, called for increased funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was established under her leadership in 1998 to address the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS on racial and ethnic minorities. She urged the funding increase in a letter to the leaders of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees, who are in the process of negotiating a final appropriation agreement for fiscal year 2016. A total of 48 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman’s letter. The text of the letter follows: We write to urge you to provide robust funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative in the final FY 2016 appropriations legislation. Cuts below the current funding level of $425.2 million for this critical HIV/AIDS program are unacceptable. Moreover, funding for this program should be increased to ensure that the program benefits from sequestration relief under the Bipartisan Budget Act. Racial and ethnic minorities continue to be severely and disproportionately impacted by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States. Minorities represent the majority of new HIV infections, people living with HIV/AIDS, and deaths from AIDS. African Americans account for 44% of new HIV infections, and Latinos account for 21%. Asian Americans account for about 2% of new HIV infections; and American Indians/Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians/Pacific Islanders, and individuals of multiple races together account for an additional 2%. Indeed, the rate of new HIV infections among blacks is about 8 times that of whites, and the rate among Latinos is about 3 times that of whites. The Minority AIDS Initiative is a critical tool in the effort to combat these unacceptable disparities, and funding cuts would be devastating to the progress already made. Considering the dramatic disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS experienced by people of color, the conferees should at least support the funding levels for the Secretary’s Minority AIDS Initiative Fund (SMAIF) and the SAMHSA Minority AIDS Initiative accounts included in the House bill. The Senate Appropriations Committee proposal would reduce the initiative’s funding by a total of $61 million, completely eliminating the $52 million in funding for the SMAIF and cutting an additional $9 million from the SAMHSA funding. This would slash the initiative’s overall funding by more than 14%. These cuts are absolutely unacceptable. The Minority AIDS Initiative targets HIV/AIDS prevention, screening, treatment, education, and outreach funds to minority communities heavily impacted by HIV/AIDS. These funds do not duplicate other HIV/AIDS funds, as suggested in the Senate Appropriations Committee’s report. Rather, they supplement other HIV/AIDS funds and fill gaps to help those communities where needs are the greatest. Any cuts to the initiative will have a profound detrimental impact on our nation’s ability to reduce the spread of HIV in these communities. This, in turn, will adversely impact our ability to fight the epidemic nationwide. We therefore urge you to provide no less than the current funding level for each of the separate accounts of the Minority AIDS Initiative and to increase these accounts as much as possible in FY 2016, without cutting funding for other critical HIV/AIDS programs. We thank you for your attention to our concerns, and we look forward to working with you to protect and expand programs for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS in all heavily impacted communities throughout the United States.
12.04.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, and Congressman Bobby Scott, Ranking Member of the House Education and Workforce Committee, support the release of the Department of Education’s Second Report of the Special Master for Borrower Defense that announced the authorization of full relief of student loan debt for 1,312 Corinthian College students. The decision will amount to almost $28 million in debt relief that will go directly to harmed Corinthian students. The Department also announced that it has processed and authorized over 5,814 closed school discharge claims, amounting to an additional $75,461,790 in loan relief. Additionally, Ranking Members Waters and Scott were pleased to hear that the Department of Treasury has concluded that the debt relief received by Corinthian students will not be considered taxable income, relieving these students from what would have been thousands of dollars in unfair taxes. The Department’s announcement and report follow a continuous advocacy effort by Ranking Members Waters and Scott and, several of their colleagues in both the House and the Senate, to extend full restitution for all harmed Corinthian students in light of the U.S. Department of Education’s major fraud findings against Corinthian Colleges, Inc. In addition to several letters and meetings with the Department of Education, students, and advocates, Ranking Member Waters has also introduced three pieces of legislation directly aimed at curbing the abuses of Corinthian and similar for profit institutions: the Class Act, the Students Before Profits Act and the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act. She was also the first Member of Congress to endorse the Corinthian 100, a group of students who initiated a debt strike in response to the Department of Education’s Corinthian’s fraudulent practices and subsequent closure and bankruptcy. In September, Ranking Member Scott, joined by Waters and Hahn, introduced the Pell Restoration Act which will restore Pell Grant eligibility for Corinthian students and any other student who attended an institution of higher education that closed due to certain violations. “I am very pleased that we can now say that there are some Corinthian students, including approximately 1,000 students from the state of California, that have finally received monetary debt relief,” said Rep. Maxine Waters. “The evidence has been clear that Corinthian defrauded its students and now we are finally beginning to make some of them whole. While the Special Master’s report today represents a good first step, it is important to keep in mind that much more work must be done. Just last month, the Department of Education and the Department of Justice concluded that Corinthian’s Wyotech and Everest Colleges, both schools that are primarily located in California, misrepresented their placement rates to enrolled and prospective students. The Department of Education must now extend the same expedited relief authorized today to these students who attended Wyotech and Everest College as well. The work will not end until as many Corinthian students as possible receive the relief they deserve. ” “For too long, some educational institutions have engaged in activities that leave students financially and academically vulnerable,” said Rep. Bobby Scott. “Today’s announcement to forgive the loans of more than 1,000 students is good news. While the time that students invested in their studies can never be replaced, this action by the Department gives students some much-needed relief. This decision will bring help to these students and their families, but there is much more to be done for the many other students who have not had their debt forgiven.” ###
12.03.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, applauded the House of Representatives’ passage of the conference report on H.R. 22, Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act (FAST Act). The conference report provides $281 billion in guaranteed funding for highway, bridge, public transit, and transportation safety over the next five years. Congresswoman Waters voted in favor of the conference report, which passed the House by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 359 to 65. The conference report is expected to pass the Senate, after which it can be signed into law by the President. Congresswoman Waters’ statement follows: “I applaud the House for passing a multi-year transportation bill that will create jobs and bring our nation’s transportation system into the 21st century. “For far too long, Congress has passed short-term extension after short-term extension for federal transportation programs, leaving states and local governments in limbo and preventing many beneficial transportation projects from being built. By providing guaranteed funding for the next five years, this measure will allow critical infrastructure projects to go forward. “Although this conference report is not perfect and I do not agree with every provision, I voted in favor of it because I believe it is important that we move forward with a multi-year transportation program that will repair our dilapidated infrastructure and invest in safe, reliable roads, bridges and transit systems. “I am especially proud that the FAST Act includes $3.7 billion in bus and bus facilities funding, a 75 percent increase over current levels. This funding will assist transit agencies in my district like Metro, Torrance Transit in the City of Torrance, and GTrans in the City of Gardena to expand and improve their services, thereby reducing traffic congestion and providing more public transportation options. “The FAST Act also provides almost $1.5 billion for the successful Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) Program, which helps transit agencies like Metro arrange financing for new investments in transportation infrastructure. Metro used a TIFIA loan to accelerate the construction of the Crenshaw LAX Corridor, a light rail project that will provide service to several communities in and around my district in both the City of Los Angeles and the City of Inglewood. “Once this conference report has been signed into law, I plan to work closely with Metro and the cities in my district to make certain that all of the communities in my district will benefit from federal highway, bridge and transit funding. “Furthermore, the FAST Act continues the highly-successful Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Program that ensures that women and minority-owned businesses are able to fairly compete for transportation contracts. It also includes a provision to facilitate the recruitment and training of transit workers from underrepresented populations, including minorities, women, individuals with disabilities, veterans, and low-income populations. “The FAST Act will create jobs, rebuild our nation’s crumbling roads and bridges, and allow states and local governments to move forward with innovative projects to expand access to safe, reliable, and affordable transportation alternatives for American families.”
12.02.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement regarding the vote against the sale of 241 public housing sites throughout South Los Angeles by the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday: "I would like to commend the residents of the 241 units of public housing who successfully fought to stay in their homes when they were faced with the threat of displacement because the Housing Authority of the County of Los Angeles (HACoLA) proposed to sell their homes to private landlords rather than repair and maintain them as public housing." "When I learned of HACoLA’s proposal to sell these units, I visited several of the apartment buildings and talked with residents to ensure that they were adequately informed about how this proposal would affect them. Upon seeing that many of the tenants were uninformed about the proposal, I also engaged several grassroots organizations, including the Legal Aid Foundation of Los Angeles, Neighborhood Legal Services of Los Angeles County, Los Angeles Human Right to Housing Collective, and Los Angeles Community Action Network, to help tenants organize and voice their concerns." "The Board of Supervisors did not appear to be aware of what was happening with this proposal. For example, when many of the residents attended a Board of Supervisors meeting on March 24th to raise their concerns, the Board of Supervisors tabled this issue to later in the day, and the residents were not allowed to speak during the public comment period, even though the Supervisor of the district was told they were present at the meeting to voice their concerns." "In order to elevate the concerns of the residents, I drafted letters to HACoLA, the Board of Supervisors, and the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), urging them to take action to stop all efforts to sell these public housing units. I was very concerned that if these residents were displaced, they would have difficulty finding housing elsewhere due to the current shortage of housing that is affordable and available to low-income families in Los Angeles. Homelessness has increased by 20 percent in Los Angeles since 2014, and this proposal had the potential to put more people at risk of becoming homeless." "HACoLA tried to assure us that residents who were displaced would receive vouchers, but this was hardly reassuring, considering recent allegations by the Department of Justice that HACoLA had colluded with the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department and the cities of Palmdale and Lancaster to discriminate against Section 8 voucher holders who chose to use their vouchers in those two cities. Los Angeles County was fined $2,675,000." Congresswoman Waters added, "I am so pleased that the residents and community advocates were successful in stopping HACoLA in their tracks. It doesn’t always happen this way. Often times, the tenants of low-income housing are disregarded when these important policy decisions are being made. ‘But sometimes, the people win!’ As elected officials, we all need to be vigilant in fighting for the voices of low-income tenants to be heard by their local leaders and the leadership in Washington, D.C." "I encourage our constituents to organize, to voice their opinion, to demand to be heard and to insist on fair and just treatment. I will always provide leadership to ensure that government not only works for the rich and the powerful, rather it also works for the low income residents, workers, the average family and the average individual."
12.01.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, issued the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day: “World AIDS Day is an important day for the global community to unite in the fight against HIV/AIDS. This day gives us the opportunity to offer support and resources to people living with HIV/AIDS and to honor those who have lost their lives while battling the disease.” “According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), about 13,712 people who were diagnosed with AIDS died in 2012. To date, an estimated 658,507 people diagnosed with AIDS in the United States have died. According to the World Health Organization, an estimated 39 million people have died worldwide since the first cases were reported in 1981 and 1.5 million people died of AIDS-related causes in 2013.” “I have always been a strong supporter of HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, research, and treatment in the United States Congress. I circulated a letter last year to the President requesting robust funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs in his fiscal year 2016 budget request. I have also fought to expand routine HIV testing to enable all Americans to learn their status and begin medical treatment to prolong their lives and maintain their health and productivity.” “I have also introduced legislation to increase funding for minority communities that are disproportionately affected by the disease. In 1998, I led the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative, which provides grants to community-based organizations for HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs serving minority communities. Every year, I circulate letters to leaders of the House Appropriations Committee in support of funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative, and dozens of my colleagues sign these letters. Because of our efforts, the Minority AIDS Initiative received $425 million in fiscal year 2015, despite the prevailing atmosphere of fiscal austerity.” “While our efforts have been aggressive in the battle against HIV/AIDS, we still have a long road ahead in combatting this disease. I remain committed and dedicated to saving lives by promoting HIV/AIDS education, research, early detection, prevention, and treatment in the United States and across the entire world.” ###
11.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, urged her congressional colleagues to cosponsor the Minority Diabetes Initiative Act, in honor of National Diabetes Month, which is celebrated in November. This bill will establish an initiative to provide grants to physicians and community-based organizations for diabetes prevention, care and treatment programs in minority communities. “Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, and it is having an especially severe impact upon minorities,” said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) among persons at least eighteen years of age, 8.9 percent of Asian Americans, 12.2 percent of Latino Americans, 13.2 percent of African-Americans and 17.5 percent of American/Alaska Natives have been diagnosed with diabetes. “Diabetes can lead to serious and sometimes deadly complications, including high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, blindness, kidney disease, nerve damage, and lower-limb amputations. Minorities with diabetes often lack access to quality health care and are more likely to suffer from complications and even die from diabetes,” said Congresswoman Waters. The CDC calculated that compared to non-Hispanic whites, Hispanics are 40 percent more likely to die from diabetes; African-Americans are twice as likely to die from diabetes; and American Indians/Alaska Natives are almost twice as likely to die from the disease. The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will provide grants for a variety of diabetes-related health services, including public education on diabetes prevention and control, routine health care for diabetic patients, eye care, foot care and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes. “The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will help reduce the incidence of diabetes among minorities and enable those affected to live healthy and productive lives,” said Congresswoman Waters.
11.22.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, honored Second Lieutenant Glenn Clanin at the Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW) Post 2075 Annual Thanksgiving Celebration in Hawthorne, California on November 22, 2015. VFW Post 2075 is led by Commander Roger Morrissey. Congresswoman Waters presented Second Lieutenant Clanin with the French Legion of Honor Award due to his heroic action as a B-26 Marauder bomber pilot with the 9th Air Force in the European Theatre during World War II. The Ambassador of France awards this honor to American veterans of the two World Wars as a tribute to their sacrifices to defend liberty. The French Legion Award is the highest decoration bestowed in France. Congresswoman Waters said, “I am truly proud and honored to be an American due to the valiant efforts of veterans like Second Lieutenant Glenn Clanin. Officer Clanin risked his life to protect the freedoms and ideals that we embrace today. Officer Clanin answered the call to serve in our nation and for that commitment, I say thank you." Second Lieutenant Clanin is a life member of VFW Post 2075 and also serves as its Adjutant. The French Legion of Honor is an order of distinction established by Napoleon Bonaparte in May 1902. American recipients include President Dwight D. Eisenhower, General Douglas MacArthur and Admiral Michael Mullen.
11.21.2015	LOS ANGELES - Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, was honored at the Fifth Annual First Ladies Health Luncheon Symposium on Saturday, November 21, 2015 at the Beverly Wilshire Hotel. The Annual First Ladies Health Initiative event brings together pastors’ wives, known as First Ladies, from area churches throughout Los Angeles and Orange County with healthcare professionals. The First Ladies Health Initiative of Los Angeles and Orange County pinned Congresswoman Waters as an honorary First Lady at the luncheon due to her commitment to fighting for adequate healthcare resources in minority communities. Experts discuss HIV/AIDS, the impact of new breast cancer screening guidelines, cardiovascular disease and other illnesses that disproportionately impact African-American and Latino communities. During the luncheon, the Congresswoman also discussed the government’s responsibility in eradicating health disparities affecting minorities and the legislation she has introduced to combat this issue when it comes to diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer’s, heart disease and HIV/AIDS. She also shared her experience in leading the national efforts to create the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998. “I am truly humbled and grateful to the First Ladies Health Initiative for this honor. I will continue to fight for resources for greater education, preventative screenings and research to decrease the disproportionate numbers of African-Americans and Latinos who suffer due to diseases and conditions that are often preventable,” said Congresswoman Waters.
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, introduced the Veteran Mental Health Defense Act, the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act, and the Upgrade Veteran Service Facilities Act. These three pieces of legislation address important issues and needs that greatly impact the lives of service members and their families. The Veteran Mental Health Defense Act will prioritize medical professionals and medical students with training and skills to treat veterans with PTSD and traumatic brain injury for acceptance into the National Health Service Corps, a program which currently enlists over 10,000 medical professionals and students that deliver much needed healthcare all over the country. The legislation will also help place professionals in areas that are facing healthcare shortages. “Veterans serve this country valiantly and stand in harm’s way to ensure that our freedoms are protected. Their sacrifices and experiences on the battlefield can have serious effects on their mental health and therefore, I am determined to ensure that their mental health care is a priority. We need to pass this legislation so more service members will have access to care and fewer service members will succumb to depression and PTSD,” said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters also reintroduced the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act to close a loophole that currently incentivizes for-profit colleges to take advantage of veteran students. The Higher Education Act of 1965 requires for-profit colleges to abide by the 90/10 rule, which means ninety percent of revenue comes from federal funding, while the other ten percent must come from non-federal resources. Currently, G.I. bill benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs and Tuition do not count under the 90 percent category of federal funding. Instead, the money is considered earned benefits. Therefore, some for-profit schools take advantage of veterans to line the pockets of their shareholders and to profit off their hard-earned GI benefits. “My bill would protect our veterans, military-personnel, their families and tax-payers from for-profit institutions cashing in on benefits they earn while serving the country,” Congresswoman Waters explained. Finally, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Upgrade Veteran Service Facilities Act that gives discretion to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to create grants to remodel and repair community centers, clinics and hospitals for veterans and their families. “Veterans should not have to come home to decrepit, run-down facilities that are intended to honor them,” said Congresswoman Waters. “My bill will give administrators of veteran facilities the opportunity to update their spaces in a way that befits our service members and their needs. My goal is to protect veterans and provide them with superior services and facilities that they deserve.”
11.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, commended California State Attorney General Kamala Harris and the Department of Education on their successful joint investigation of Corinthian College’s Wyotech and Everest California locations, as well as the Everest online programs based in Florida. The investigation concluded that the programs misrepresented their placement rates to nearly 85,000 enrolled and prospective students. The results of this investigation come on the heels of similar findings made by the Department of Education regarding Corinthian’s Heald campuses – which ultimately resulted in a $30 million fine against the for-profit college for misrepresentation of job placement rates and Corinthian’s closure just 2 months later – and a recent federal court ruling in a matter bought forth by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau that Corinthian violated federal consumer protection laws. Corinthian had as many as 23 locations in California which enrolled 10,000 students at the time the school’s closure. These students were forced to endure extended abuse by Corinthian as no Corinthian California locations were included in Corinthian’s sale of 56 campuses to education non-profit, Educational Credit Management Corp. in February of this year. “After decades of focusing my legislative career on exposing the sham that is Corinthian Colleges, this news comes as no surprise,” said Congresswoman Waters. “We’ve known for years that Corinthian Colleges have been engaging in manipulative and fraudulent practices in an effort to lure students to pay high cost tuition for a low quality education. I am pleased that the Department of Education and the California Attorney General, Kamala Harris, were able to work together to help our students. I continue to urge more state attorneys general to initiate investigations with the Department of Education that continue to expose Corinthian’s wrongdoing.” Because Corinthian’s action led to its own bankruptcy, Corinthian and its executives will not face any financial liability based on this or any other subsequent findings or judgements. Yet, students who were victims of these same actions remain liable for their student debt. “I am grateful that today’s findings will likely expand the number of students eligible for streamlined student loan relief,” Waters continued. “As the Department of Education and other federal agencies continue to investigate Corinthian, and as evidence continues to mount that both state and federal consumer protection laws are being violated, the Department should reconsider granting class wide debt relief to former Corinthian students. When looking at all the findings and judgments as a whole, there is a strong justification for the Department to extend full and immediate discharge relief to all harmed Corinthian students.” Going forward, Congresswoman Waters will continue to work with students, advocates, and the Department to help ensure that Corinthian and other for-profit colleges are exposed for engaging in similar fraudulent practices, and that harmed borrowers receive the full relief they deserve. Since her time as a member of the California State Assembly, Congresswoman Maxine Waters has fought to hold for-profit colleges accountable to the students they are purported to serve. This year, Congresswoman Waters has introduced three pieces of legislation, the CLASS Act, the Students Before Profits Act, and the Ensuring Education Quality for Veteran Act, all designed to curb the abuses of for-profit colleges on our students. Additionally, Congresswoman Waters was the first member of Congress to publically endorse the Corinthian 100, a group of former Corinthian students who declared a debt strike in response to Corinthian’s fraudulent practices. The Department of Education will refer the findings of this investigation to Joseph Smith, the Special Master in charge of borrower defense. Students who attended Corinthian College or any of its subsidiaries can get more information by visiting https://oag.ca.gov/corinthian and www.studentaid.gov/Corinthian.
11.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement today on the terrorist attacks in Paris, France: “My heart is deeply saddened by the brazen terrorist attacks in Paris, France that have killed and injured so many innocent people. My sincerest condolences and prayers are with the victims and their families. These recent terrorist attacks remind us of the perilous dangers we face due to violence and brutality of extremists groups who go to great lengths to destroy democratic ideals, freedoms and values.” “Let us also remember the many innocent people around the world whose lives have been threatened or destroyed by violent terrorist groups. Such ruthless terrorists use horrific and deadly methods to cause people to live in fear while attempting to engage in activities that should not be taken for granted such as going to work, school, religious worship and social events.” “My hope is that, as an international community, we can work together to oppose violent terrorist groups who are determined to create fear and panic across the world. We stand in solidarity with the people of France and are committed to providing assistance in the days ahead.”
11.10.2015	LOS ANGELES – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement on the fiftieth anniversary of the Higher Education Act: “Fifty years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Higher Education Act (HEA) of 1965 – a landmark piece of legislation that decades later is still opening doors for students all across our country.” “The HEA took necessary steps to strengthen our colleges and universities, to invest in our students, and to realize the true value of a college education. Despite the progress we’ve made, we know that college is often unaffordable for too many prospective students in the United States.” “If we’re ever going to make higher education accessible in the United States, we must provide adequate regulation and oversight for predatory for-profit colleges that target veterans and minority students. That’s why I’ve introduced the CLASS Act and the Students Before Profits Act – because we must put an end to these schools bankrupting and defrauding our students.” “When celebrating fifty years of the HEA, we must keep in mind the vision behind this legislation – the belief that every American, black or white, rich or poor, deserves an equal opportunity to pursue a higher education. And today, we must commit to a future where all Americans have access to an affordable college of their choice, as education is the great equalizer among us that will provide students with the tools they need to contribute and succeed in today’s competitive global economy.”
11.09.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) congratulated two constituents, Cinthya Benitez and Mayra Negrete, on winning the annual Southwest Airlines “¡Lánzate!/Take Off!” Travel Award for 2015. All too often, students of color have fewer higher education opportunities due to the high cost of tuition and travel at out-of-state universities. But with Southwest’s “¡Lánzate!/Take Off!” prize, two deserving students will face one less barrier, with Southwest awarding them complimentary roundtrip tickets to their universities of choice. “I’m so incredibly proud of both Cinthya and Mayra, not only for being awarded this scholarship, but also for the tremendous courage and initiative they’ve shown in pursuing their dreams,” said Rep. Waters. “I’m thankful Southwest has created this scholarship program to assist minority students, and look forward to more corporations following this example in making higher education more accessible to disadvantaged students.” Cinthya Benitez, originally from Los Angeles, is a current senior at St. Mary’s College in South Bend, Indiana. Having the “¡Lánzate!/Take Off!” prize not only makes it easier to stay connected to her home and family, but also helps her stay focused on her degrees in Biology and Chemistry as she pursues a career in medicine. Mayra Negrete, a Gardena resident, is a junior psychology major at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut. The “¡Lánzate!/Take Off!” award has not only helped Mayra stay on top of her studies, but it has helped ease the burden on her family members who have sacrificed so much to help support her education. Southwest’s generous annual program not only benefits praiseworthy students like Cinthya and Mayra, but also institutions of higher education all over the country that strive to recruit talented people of color who lack the opportunity to cross state lines—and sometimes even county lines—to attend colleges and universities of their choice.
11.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, introduced the Students Before Profits Act, a bill recently introduced in the United States Senate by Senators Christopher Murphy and Richard Durbin, and co-sponsored by Senators Elizabeth Warren, and Sherrod Brown. This legislation protects students against deceptive practices by predatory for-profit institutions of higher education. “For years, the for-profit college industry has inflicted havoc and chaos in the lives of students across the nation,” said Congresswoman Waters. “It is time to hold these institutions responsible for their fraudulent practices which prioritize profits over providing a quality education for the students they serve.” The for-profit college sector has recently come under heavy state and federal scrutiny following the closure and bankruptcy of Corinthian Colleges, which deceived students for decades by steering them into high-interest student loans based on manipulated graduation rates and employment data. Even after its closure, Corinthian students, remain saddled with debt, worthless degrees, and few prospects for employment. The Students Before Profits Act authorizes enhanced penalties on for profit colleges and their executive officers if it is determined that the institution misrepresented its costs, admission requirements, completion rates, employment prospects or student loan default rates. Additionally, the bill allows the Department of Education to require owners and executives of fraudulent for-profit colleges to assume personal liable for financial losses associated with Title IV funds. Further, penalties and fines collected from the enforcement of this Act will be placed in a Student Relief Fund that would be used to provide financial relief to defrauded students. Lastly, the Act also improves oversight over the for profit college industry by requiring the Department of Education to correct the data from any for profit institution that has engaged in default manipulation. Even with the demise of Corinthian, schools such as the University of Phoenix and ITT Technical Institute continue to face federal scrutiny for engaging in similar fraudulent practices and we must implement policies to combat this harmful trend. Despite current and ongoing efforts by advocates, students, legal aid workers, and the Department of Education to mitigate the effects of students impacted by these schools and their subsequent closures, it is clear more must be done. “The Students Before Profits Act will go one step further in providing the tools necessary to bring much needed regulation and oversight to an industry that reaps enormous profits from taxpayers’ dollars and damages our students’ futures,” said Rep. Waters.
11.04.2015	LOS ANGELES – The South Bay Workforce Investment Board (SBWIB), a workforce investment organization serving Carson, El Segundo, Gardena, Hawthorne, Hermosa Beach, Inglewood, Lawndale, Manhattan Beach, Redondo Beach, Lomita and Torrance, celebrated its 20th Annual South Bay Workforce Investment Board Alumni Awards Ceremony on Thursday, October 30th. Congresswoman Waters gave the keynote address at the event and in doing so commended Jan Vogel, the CEO of SBWIB for his many years of work for the organization. Congresswoman Waters also provided the audience with an update on her work to support the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank. She also thanked the businesses who called and sent letters in support of the reauthorization of the Bank. Additionally, Waters emphasized the importance of job training and job creation and congratulated the program participants and honorees who received special significance at the ceremony for their successful job training and job acquisition efforts. Congresswoman Waters was particularly complimentary of the cities of the South Bay who are participants in the program and encouraged them to continue to work together for the greater good of the South Bay area. Congresswoman Waters also joined in honoring Dr. Thomas Fallo, retiring President of the El Camino Community Colleges who was awarded the SBWIB’s highest honor, the Esther Williams Award of Excellence. Congresswoman Waters was the SBWIB’s first recipient of the Esther Williams Award of Excellence.
11.03.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, submitted an amendment to the House Rules Committee, which would expand the popular TIGER transportation program, and urged the Rules Committee to allow her to offer her amendment on the House floor during consideration of the transportation bill. The Congresswoman’s amendment would provide $7.5 billion for TIGER over 6 years, consistent with the President’s proposal to expand TIGER. The funding would be exempt from sequestration. “My amendment will provide an emergency supplemental appropriation totaling $7.5 billion dollars over the next six years for the successful TIGER program, which creates jobs through investments in transportation infrastructure,” explained Congresswoman Waters in her statement before the Rules Committee. Congresswoman Waters’ amendment is based on the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act (H.R. 2495), a bill which she introduced earlier this year, and which has 69 cosponsors. “The economy is still struggling to recover from the recession,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The unemployment rate is still above 5 percent nationwide and is significantly higher in some minority and disadvantaged communities. Meanwhile, the American Society of Civil Engineers gave the public infrastructure of the United States a grade of “D+” in 2013 and estimated that we will need to invest $3.6 trillion by 2020 in order to improve the condition of our infrastructure.” TIGER – formally known as Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery – is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies. The President proposed an expansion of the TIGER program, which would provide $7.5 billion for TIGER over the next 6 years. “Passage of an emergency supplemental appropriation would provide funding for TIGER free from sequestration and without reducing funding for other important domestic priorities, and it would allow states, local governments, and transit agencies to begin immediately to plan projects and prepare grant applications,” concluded the Congresswoman. “Thus, it would ensure an efficient use of funds and timely job creation.” The transportation bill already includes an amendment authored by Congresswoman Waters to ensure equity for economically distressed urban communities in the distribution of federal highway funds. This amendment was offered by Congressman André Carson (IN-07) during the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s consideration of the transportation bill. The Carson-Waters amendment was passed by voice vote, and the bill was subsequently reported out of committee and scheduled for consideration on the House floor.
11.03.2015	WASHINGTON – U.S. Representatives Chris Smith (R-N.J.) and Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), House Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan, Bicameral Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, commended the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America (AFA) for holding Memory Screening Week from Nov. 1-7 and urged the general public, especially those 65 and over, to take advantage of the screenings. To find screening sites, one simply needs to enter their zip code at: https://www.afascreenings.org/search-us. “I applaud the AFA for expanding access to these important screenings, which inform the healthcare decisions of our seniors and help them prepare for a better future. For many years I have collaborated with AFA to help raise awareness about Alzheimer’s disease and dementia, and their work in eliminating stigma and providing clinical resources has helped countless Americans get the help they need,” said Smith. “National Memory Screening Week is a wonderful opportunity for individuals with memory concerns to get free and confidential screenings for Alzheimer’s disease and other problems affecting memory,” said Waters. “It is also an opportunity to raise awareness of Alzheimer’s disease and promote the value of memory screening and early detection.” AFA has held National Memory Screening Day during National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month for the past 12 years. This year, the AFA has expanded the successful program to a whole week. From Nov. 1-7, local sites will offer free, safe and confidential memory screenings to the public, as well as patient education about brain health and successful aging. “According to a recent study conducted online by Harris Poll on behalf of Alzheimer’s Foundation of America, about nine in 10 adults ages 40+ (91 percent) say without their memory, they wouldn’t be themselves. Yet, one in two (56 percent) say they have other health concerns more pressing than getting a memory screening,” said Charles J. Fuschillo, Jr., president and chief executive officer of the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America. “We encourage people to take advantage of the free, confidential memory screenings being offered throughout the country during National Memory Screening Week. A screening is much like other routine health check-ups – it’s simple, non-invasive and lasts less than 10 minutes.” Memory screenings are not used to diagnose illness, but can help determine whether a person might benefit from further examination by a qualified physician. In addition to helping patients avoid or correct misdiagnosis and other medical problems, memory screenings benefit persons with healthy memory scores by dispelling fears, providing a baseline for future screenings and promoting healthy aging. Alzheimer’s disease, a degenerative condition caused by disease of the brain, is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States. While Alzheimer’s currently has no cure, early detection can help patients and caregivers plan for more positive health outcomes. “Early detection of Alzheimer’s disease improves treatment and helps individuals and families plan for their future,” said Waters. “I congratulate the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America for continuing to expand its National Memory Screening Program.” “I urge everyone to participate in a free memory screening this week,” said Smith, who noted that there are screening sites throughout New Jersey. “Knowledge is power, and in addition to providing earlier and more accurate diagnoses, memory screenings offer insight into brain health which can improve quality of life for all.” For additional information on Alzheimer’s disease and memory screenings, visit: www.nationalmemoryscreening.org . Smith and Waters recently teamed up to introduce Alzheimer’s Action Now, a package of four bills that together aim to help Alzheimer’s patients and their families; promote public awareness of Alzheimer’s disease; and encourage voluntary contributions to research efforts. The Alzheimer’s Action Now legislative package includes three bills introduced by Rep. Waters in July: The Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 3090), The Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3091), and the Alzheimer’s Disease Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 3092). The package also includes the Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act (H.R. 1559) introduced by Rep. Smith in February. The Task Force co-chairs also requested an increase in funding at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), specifically targeted for Alzheimer’s disease. While the bill did not make it to the floor prior to a continuing resolution, their efforts were recognized by the Appropriations Committee in the House. Their bill included a $300 million boost at NIH for AD, for a total of $886 million to continue the search for an Alzheimer’s treatment and cure. Smith co-authored the bipartisan National Alzheimer’s Project Act or NAPA, which passed the House in 2010 and was enacted in 2011. NAPA set a goal of preventing and successfully treating Alzheimer’s disease by 2025 and established a national plan to coordinate government and private sector research as well as improve care and support services for patients and families. Click here to read the national plan.
10.22.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, applauded the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee’s passage of the Carson-Waters amendment, which ensures equity for economically distressed urban communities in the distribution of Federal highway funds. The amendment was offered at Congresswoman Waters’ request by Congressman André Carson (IN-07) during the committee’s consideration of the surface transportation reauthorization bill. The amendment was passed by voice vote, and the bill was subsequently reported out of the committee, also by voice vote. “I applaud the committee’s passage of the Carson-Waters amendment because it will ensure that the most economically distressed communities in our urban areas receive their fair share of Federal highway funds,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I’m proud to work with my colleague, Ms. Waters, on this important amendment that will help ensure that economically distressed urban communities are not left behind,” said Congressman Carson. “It’s just a matter of fairness to make this small but significant change.” The Carson-Waters amendment is based on the Integrated Transportation and Economic Development Act (H.R. 3740), which Congresswoman Waters introduced on October 9, 2015, with the support of Congressman Carson and nine other original cosponsors. The Carson-Waters amendment amends the national goals of the Federal highway program to include the improvement of road conditions in economically distressed urban communities and the expansion of access to jobs, markets, and economic opportunities for people who live in these communities. The highway program’s goals had already included access to markets for rural communities. “Transportation infrastructure is important in economically distressed urban communities because it provides access to jobs, economic opportunities, and essential goods and services such as banks, health care facilities, grocery stores, restaurants, shopping malls, and colleges and universities,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The Carson-Waters amendment will help to ensure that these communities will have safe, reliable roads and bridges to access these critical opportunities and services.” The Carson-Waters amendment also requires the Secretary of Transportation to establish performance measures for states to use to assess the conditions, accessibility and reliability of roads in economically distressed urban communities and requires states to submit periodic reports that describe progress in the improvement of these communities’ roads.
10.15.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a leading advocate in Congress for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing and treatment, marked National Latino AIDS Awareness Day by reiterating her support for robust federal funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs in fiscal year (FY) 2016. “National Latino AIDS Awareness Day is a day to remember the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS in the Latino community and call for policies that will improve HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment among Latinos and all those who are at risk of this terrible disease,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I urge congressional leaders to take this epidemic seriously and provide robust funding for HIV/AIDS programs in the coming fiscal year.” More than 220,000 Latinos live with HIV/AIDS in the United States. Latinos account for 21 percent of new HIV infections and 19 percent of people living with HIV/AIDS, despite the fact that they represent only 16 percent of the U.S. population. Overall, racial and ethnic minorities represent a majority of new HIV infections, a majority of people living with HIV/AIDS, and a majority of deaths from AIDS. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Waters circulated a letter to Appropriations Committee leaders requesting an appropriation of $610 million in FY 2016 for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was established under her leadership in 1998 to address the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS on racial and ethnic minorities. A total of 65 Members of Congress signed the letter, in addition to Congresswoman Waters. “Latinos and other minority communities are severely and disproportionately impacted by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States. These communities have a critical need for resources to reach out to people who are at risk and encourage them to get tested. That is why I strongly oppose the cuts in funding proposed by the Senate Appropriations Committee for the Minority AIDS Initiative,” said Congresswoman Waters. In June of this year, the Senate Appropriations Committee recommended that funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative be cut by $61 million in FY 2016 and that the Secretary’s Minority AIDS Initiative Fund be completely eliminated. The House Appropriations Committee has yet to consider FY 2016 funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative or other programs within the Department of Health and Human Services. On September 11, 2015, Congresswoman Waters; Congresswoman Robin Kelly, the Chair of the Health Braintrust of the Congressional Black Caucus; Congresswoman Barbara Lee, a member of the House Appropriations Committee; and 18 other Members of Congress, wrote a letter to President Obama urging him to oppose cuts in funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative and other HIV/AIDS programs serving minority communities. “This funding is too vital to the public health outcomes of many communities of color and must remain a budget priority in the years ahead. Not only is the Senate Appropriations Committee unjustified in making this cut, fundamentally we find this decision to be negligent as a public health strategy. For these reasons, we ask that you not sign into law any Department of Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations legislation that fails to recognize the still critical nature of the minority AIDS epidemic in America,” said Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues in their letter. ###
10.13.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, introduced the Integrated Transportation and Economic Development Act (H.R. 3740), prior to adjournment on October 9, 2015. This bill will amend the national goals of the Federal aid-highway program to include the improvement of road conditions in economically distressed urban communities. Ten Members of Congress joined the Congresswoman as original cosponsors, and four additional Members subsequently agreed to cosponsor the bill. “Our Federal highway program includes goals focused on improving safety, reliability, infrastructure condition, freight movement, and access for rural communities, but there is no goal specified in the program focused on ensuring that economically distressed urban communities are not left behind,” said Congresswoman Waters. The Congresswoman’s bill establishes a new goal for the Federal aid-highway program: “To improve road conditions in economically distressed urban communities and increase access to jobs, markets, and economic opportunities for people who live in such communities.” The new goal is entitled “Integrated Economic Development.” “It is important that both urban and rural communities are able to benefit from the Federal highway program and receive an equitable distribution of Federal transportation funds,” said Congresswoman Waters. “My legislation will ensure that the most economically distressed communities in our urban areas receive their fair share of funds.” The bill also requires the Secretary of Transportation to establish performance measures for states to use to assess the conditions, accessibility and reliability of roads in economically distressed urban communities and requires states to submit periodic reports that describe progress in the improvement of these communities’ roads.
10.06.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to Dr. Joanne Liu, International President of Doctors Without Borders, extending her deepest sympathies to the victims of the U.S. airstrike in Kunduz, Afghanistan, that killed 22 patients and staff within a hospital run by Doctors Without Borders. The text of the letter follows: Dear Dr. Liu: It is with an extremely heavy heart that I extend my deepest sympathies to the victims of the U.S. airstrike in Kunduz that killed 22 patients and staff within a hospital run by Doctors Without Borders. Doctors who volunteer their skills in some of the most dangerous regions of the world make sacrifices as brave and selfless as the sacrifices made by our U.S. service members when they are sent into harm’s way. My heart goes out to all who were affected by this tragic incident. I have always admired the work of Doctors Without Borders. The organization led the international response to last year’s deadly Ebola outbreak in West Africa, and it continues to treat patients in numerous isolated and dangerous parts of the world, including areas of violent conflict like Afghanistan. The courage and compassion of Doctors Without Borders’ staff and volunteers are beyond compare. With this tragedy, we are once again reminded of the very real costs of war and recall our collective responsibility to promote international peace and security and protect civilians. It is my sincere hope that there will be a thorough and impartial investigation of the incident and that we work hard to ensure that such an incident never happens again. Once again, my thoughts and prayers are with the victims of this tragedy and I pray that their families may find peace and comfort in the memories of their loved ones and the sympathies of the international community. ###
10.05.2015	WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, expressing deep concern about Haiti’s 2015 elections and the impact they will have on Haiti’s future if the Haitian people do not perceive them to be credible. According to the State Department, Secretary Kerry will be visiting Haiti tomorrow. Congresswoman Waters’ letter urges Secretary Kerry to take all necessary and appropriate action to support free, fair and democratic elections in Haiti. The letter specifically calls on him to make a clear statement that the violence, fraud and voter intimidation witnessed in the first round of the elections should be thoroughly and independently investigated, that the individuals and parties responsible for the violence must be sanctioned, regardless of political party affiliation, and that the Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) must make the reforms necessary to establish public trust. A copy of the letter was sent to Kenneth Merten, the State Department’s Haiti Special Coordinator. During Congresswoman Waters’ thirteen terms in Congress, she has visited Haiti many times, and she has worked with her colleagues in Congress, State Department officials, Haitian political leaders, and Haitian civil society to promote political stability, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, and economic and social development in Haiti. Following the 2010 earthquake, she introduced the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573), which was passed and signed into law by the President. The text of the Congresswoman’s letter follows (footnotes were included in the original): Dear Secretary Kerry: As you know, I am a strong supporter of Haiti, and I care deeply about the well-being of the Haitian people. I appreciate the ongoing efforts of the Department of State and the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to provide assistance to Haiti to improve health, education, nutrition, and economic development for the Haitian people. As a supporter of Haiti, I respect Haiti’s sovereignty. Nevertheless, I am deeply concerned about Haiti’s 2015 elections and the impact they will have on Haiti’s future if the Haitian people do not perceive them to be credible. Therefore, as you undertake a trip to Haiti at this critical moment, I urge you to take all necessary and appropriate action to support free, fair and democratic elections in Haiti. The voting in the August 9 first-round parliamentary elections was marred by massive irregularities, which set a troubling precedent for Haiti’s upcoming October 25 Presidential and second-round parliamentary elections. As you stated in your press conference with Prime Minister Evans Paul, it is “imperative” that these elections be successful. To make these elections successful, I believe it is imperative that the many problems noted in the first round of the elections be addressed, so that Haiti’s next government is legitimate and is perceived as legitimate. Haiti’s first-round legislative elections on August 9 were characterized by disorder, delays and the closing of many polling stations due to violence and fraud. Turnout was extremely low, with less than 18% of registered voters participating nationwide. Nearly 25% of the votes cast have not been accounted for and were never counted. Political party representatives – sometimes posing as election observers – frequently attempted to influence or intimidate voters, stuff ballot boxes and violently disrupt voting, according to local observer groups.[1] The European Union Observer Mission’s deputy head concluded that the disruptions and violence were consciously planned to influence the results.[2] The election, in the words of one observer group, was “an affront to democratic principles.”[3] Despite an outcry from Haitian civil society and political parties, the CEP has not adequately remedied these glaring problems. Final results recently released by the CEP indicate that the vote will be rerun only in 24 of the country’s 119 constituencies. The CEP ruled that they would accept the votes from constituencies where at least 70% of the tally sheets were considered valid, a distressingly low threshold for acceptability, which brings into question the legitimacy of the candidates who will eventually take office.[4] Despite local observers reporting widespread violence and irregularities, the CEP only excluded 16 out of the nearly 2,000 candidates from the election due to their alleged involvement in election-day violence. These sanctions, however, are little more than a slap on the wrist; candidates found responsible for violence and disruption of the voting process should be prosecuted. The CEP also warned parties that further disruptions of the elections would not be tolerated and notably singled out two political parties allegedly close to President Michel Martelly -- Parti Haïtien Tet Kale (PHTK) and Bouclier -- as those most frequently responsible for irregularities and disruptions.[5] However, the CEP announced no significant sanctions to penalize these parties. The failure of the CEP to take stronger action for blatant electoral violations that often rose to criminal offenses delivers a disturbing political lesson: in Haitian elections, crime pays. The inability or unwillingness of the CEP to properly investigate and sanction parties and candidates responsible for election irregularities has seriously damaged the institution’s credibility. I urge you to send a clear message that electoral violence will not be tolerated. Many political parties and Haitian civil society are now demanding, at a minimum, an impartial and independent investigation into the August 9 election irregularities. Many are calling for the resignation of the current CEP and the annulment of the entire first round.[6] Thus far, United States officials in Haiti have refused to recognize the scale of the fraud and violence that affected the August 9 elections. Disregarding the overwhelming evidence to the contrary, U.S. officials continue to insist that incidents of violence and fraud were isolated and did not affect the overall electoral process.[7] President John Kennedy famously remarked, “Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.” Running transparently unfair elections, with the support of the international community, will leave many Haitians to once again conclude that they have no choice but to protest the elections and the consequent government through social disruption. Indeed, this is what happened in the political cycle of the past four years that began with controversial elections in 2010 and 2011 that brought President Martelly to power, and led to the current crisis where every elected office in the country is vacant save for ten Senate seats and the Presidency. Such disruption would threaten to severely limit the next government’s ability to govern and imperil United States’ past and future investments in Haiti’s reconstruction. I call on you to make a clear statement that the violence, fraud and voter intimidation witnessed on August 9 should be thoroughly and independently investigated, that the individuals and parties responsible for the violence must be sanctioned, regardless of political party affiliation, and that the CEP must make the reforms necessary to establish public trust. The United States government should also state unequivocally that it will not provide funding for elections that do not meet these minimum, basic democratic requirements. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress 1 Réseau National de Défense des Droits Humains, Conseil National d’Observation des Elections and Conseil Haïtien des Acteurs non Etatiques, “Rapport sur le premier tour des élections législatives partielles,” August 25, 2015; Justice and Peace Commission, “Twazyèm pozisyon Komisyon Jistis ak Lapè sou jounen vòt 9 dawou 2015 lan,” August 12, 2015; Platforme des Organisations Haïtiennes des Droits Humains, “Rapò preliminè sou dewoulman eleksyon 9 dawout 2015 nan peyi a,” August 13, 2015. 2 Louis-Joseph Olivier, “L’Union européenne fait des propositions pour améliorer le processus électoral,” Le Nouvelliste, August 25, 2015. 3 Réseau National de Défense des Droits Humains, Conseil National d’Observation des Elections and Conseil Haïtien des Acteurs non Etatiques, “Scrutin du 9 août 2015 : un accroc aux normes démocratiques !” August 10, 2015 4 Jake Johnston, “Fraud, Violence, and Protests Cloud Results of Haitian Election,” Vice News, September 6, 2015. 5 Ibid.; Conseil électoral provisoire, “Communiqué #51: Mise en Garde au Partis et Groupements Politiques,” August 24, 2015. 6 Remixon Guillaume, “Des partis politiques de tendances différentes, pour l’annulation des élections législatives,” Le Nouvelliste, September 7, 2015; Réseau National de Défense des Droits Humains, Conseil National d’Observation des Elections and Conseil Haïtien des Acteurs non Etatiques, “Observation du Processus électoral : Le RNDDH, le CNO et le CONHANE exigent l'évaluation du scrutin du 9 août 2015,” September 7, 2015. 7 At her last press conference on August 27, outgoing U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Pamela A. White stated: “I am happy to see that the first round of elections occurred, and that the outcome, while not perfect, was acceptable.” On September 9, Ambassador White released a series of Tweets reaffirming this position that the first-round legislative elections did not require major correctives: “We cannot go back, because that would be ‘lave men siye atè’,” (Literally, “to wash one’s hands and then dirty them on the ground.” This Haitian proverb can be translated as “Ending up back where we started.”) The Ambassador stated her opposition to calls for the resignation of the CEP or the creation of a transitional government and accused protestors criticizing the CEP of “causing disorder in the streets.”
09.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) applauded the House of Representative’s final approval of H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act. H.R. 720 was introduced in response to the November 1, 2013, shooting incident at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), which took the life of Gerardo Hernandez, a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) officer who was killed in the line of duty. The House approved the bill today by voice vote following the Senate’s passage of the bill, and thus cleared the bill for the President’s signature. LAX is located in Congresswoman Waters’ congressional district. “I applaud my colleagues for approving this bill to improve security standards at our nation’s airports,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The security failures at LAX, which were tragically revealed during the shooting, are simply unacceptable. Congress must make certain they are never repeated.” Reports on the LAX shooting incident, released separately by TSA and Los Angeles World Airports, the operator of LAX, revealed a number of problems that interfered with incident response efforts. For example, emergency phones and panic buttons at LAX were not in good working order, and problems in coordination between various police and fire departments resulted in multiple command posts at different locations that did not unify for 45 minutes. H.R. 720 requires the Department of Homeland Security to conduct outreach to airports to verify that they have in place plans to respond to security incidents, including active shooter incidents, acts of terrorism, and incidents that target passenger-screening checkpoints. Such plans may include a plan for establishing unified command, a schedule for testing of communications equipment used to receive emergency calls, a plan to communicate with travelers and other persons in the airport, and a schedule of training for airport police, firefighters, medical personnel, and other relevant stakeholders. “The safety and security of our nation’s airports and all of the workers and travelers who pass through them is of paramount importance. The Department of Homeland Security must take action to make certain that airports like LAX have a state-of-the-art emergency response system,” concluded Congresswoman Waters.
08.27.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, issued the following statement upon the passing of voting rights activist Amelia Boynton Robinson: “Our nation and our community suffered yet another tremendous loss yesterday. Amelia Boynton Robinson was a visionary and a fighter. She dedicated her entire life to the cause of advancing civil rights and voting rights for African-Americans. As an activist and organizer in the south during Jim Crow, her dream was simple yet ambitious: that every American, regardless of the color of their skin, deserved the right to vote. As early as the 1930’s, she risked her life registering to vote, and spent the decades after fighting to ensure other African-Americans in her community had access to the ballot box. And of course, many of us recall the photos of Amelia being knocked unconscious by the police of the Edmund Pettus Bridge; images that are eerily relevant today. As a result of those events on Bloody Sunday and the demonstrations Amelia led in Selma, President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act, effectively removing barriers to the polls for African-Americans and minorities across the country. Amelia exhibited tremendous strength and resolve during a time when people risked their lives to vote -- a responsibility far too many take for granted today. Earlier this year, I had the privilege of joining Amelia for the 50th anniversary of the March on Selma. It was a profound and moving moment; it’s hard to imagine the Voting Rights Act without Amelia, without her vision and her bravery. We owe it to her – and to all of those who died and risked their lives fighting for the right to vote – to finally restore the protections of the Voting Rights Act, so all Americans have equal access to the ballot box.” Amelia Boynton Robinson, known as the matriarch of the voting rights movement, died on Wednesday in Montgomery, Alabama, at the age of 104. She was one of the organizers of the March on Selma, and helped persuade Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to bring the Civil Rights Movement to the city. On March 7, 1965 – known as Bloody Sunday – Amelia was knocked unconscious as she and other demonstrators tried to cross the Edmund Pettus Bridge. She was a guest of President Lyndon Johnson’s when he signed the Voting Rights Act at the White House on August 6, 1965.
08.19.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement upon the passing of Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Founding Member and former Representative Louis B. Stokes: “Yesterday, we lost yet another icon – my friend and former colleague Congressman Louis Stokes. Lou dedicated his life to public service and giving a voice to the voiceless, whether he was fighting to protect affordable housing or ensuring that America’s veterans were treated with the dignity and respect they deserve. Lou was a giant in the House of Representatives and in the community he served. “I especially enjoyed working with Lou to address the tragic impact of HIV/ADS in minority communities. Together with the Clinton Administration and our colleagues in the CBC, Lou and I founded the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998. The Initiative continues to assist Black, Latino and other minority communities with the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS. “It is my sincere hope that his legacy and the fond memories he leaves behind will be a source of comfort to Lou’s wife and family at this difficult time.” Louis Stokes was the first African-American to represent Ohio in the U.S. House of Representatives, and served in the House for fifteen terms. Prior to his election to Congress, Stokes was a distinguished attorney in Cleveland, and he argued before the U.S. Supreme Court on behalf of civil liberties in Terry v. Ohio. In Congress, Stokes was a Founding Member of the Congressional Black Caucus, and served as a Chair of both the Intelligence Committee and Ethics Committee.
08.16.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement upon the passing of civil rights leader Julian Bond: "It cannot be understated what a loss Julian's passing is to the civil rights community. He was an icon whose message of equality knew no boundaries. As an early student of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Julian firmly believed that the law should protect and respect the dignity of all oppressed and marginalized communities. His advocacy therefore extended beyond the fight for the equal protection of African Americans, and included women, the LGBT community, and people of color abroad. I especially recall Julian's involvement in anti-apartheid protests as we worked nationwide to ensure the United States did not encourage and support racial segregation in South Africa. As a co-founder of Southern Poverty Law Center, Julian remained a consistent and credible voice in the advancement of public policies designed to protect the most vulnerable and underserved communities in the country. Julian's tireless pursuit of justice never wavered and his commitment to equality made a real difference in the lives of so many Americans. And while he's no longer with us, Julian's legacy lives on not just in the many organizations he led, but also in the people he inspired and whose lives were forever changed by his vision and work." Julian Bond was an American civil rights leader, activist, writer, professor, and state legislator. As a young college student active in the Civil Rights Movement, Bond co-founded the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), where he served as communications director for several years. He was also instrumental in creating the Southern Poverty Law Center, a public interest and civil rights law firm headquartered in Montgomery, Alabama. As a member of the Georgia State Legislature, Bond was a tireless advocate for minorities and for the poor. In 1998, he was chosen as Chairman of the N.A.A.C.P., where he served until 2010.
08.14.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in honor of the flag-raising ceremony at the U.S. Embassy in Cuba: “I am especially proud and hopeful today as the American flag was raised over the U.S. Embassy in Havana for the first time in over 54 years. As a long-time advocate of improved relations with Cuba, who has traveled to the island several times; witnessed the desire of many Cubans to improve relations with the United States; and visited their schools, hospitals, and a major university; I believe that working together will be beneficial to both Cuba and the United States. “As the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) in the 105th Congress, I organized the first of several congressional delegations for CBC members to Cuba. We met with President Fidel Castro, other Cuban officials, the Chief of the U.S. Interests Section, and several dissidents and independent journalists. We also donated more than 400 pounds of medical supplies to the Martin Luther King Center in Havana, which is run by the Baptist Church, for distribution in the community. “Today’s flag-raising marks an end to the backwards policy of isolation and marks another step towards creating strong diplomatic and economic relations with our neighboring island. I trust that this historical next step will help further normalize relations between our two great nations and facilitate enhanced cooperation in other aspects of our relationship, such as trade, travel, and cultural exchange. I will continue to fight for an end to the crippling embargo and look forward to the day when fear and mistrust are replaced by friendship and cooperation.”
08.13.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, marked the 80th anniversary of the landmark Social Security Act. Signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1935, the Social Security Act has provided economic stability and retirement security to millions of hard working Americans. The Congresswoman released the following statement: “In today’s economic climate we must never forget about the impact of legislation like the Social Security Act of 1935. When the program was first implemented, it covered a very limited number of Americans. Since then it has grown and dramatically evolved into a nearly universal system and, as a result, 93% of American workers pay and contribute to Social Security. “Today, nearly 59 million Americans rely on the earned benefits of Social Security, including 9 million veterans. Furthermore, 8.2 million disabled workers and 6.9 million widows/widowers and spouses of retired and disabled workers are supported by this undeniably necessary Act. “A world without Social Security is one that is hard to fathom. Without Social Security, the poverty rates for Black and Latino seniors would triple. Social Security lifts 15 million elderly Americans out of poverty, including more than 1.2 million elderly people in California. Without Social Security, 22 million Americans, including 1 million children, would fall into poverty. “Today, when the average American has only $2500 in retirement savings, we can rest assured that Social Security will provide our citizens with a means to retire and live a life with dignity. It is clear that Social Security and the benefits it provides for seniors, retirees, veterans, disabled persons, and families of retired workers cannot be overstated.”
08.06.2015	LOS ANGELES – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Voting Rights Act: “Today marks fifty years since President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act of 1965 – a landmark achievement of the Civil Rights Movement and one of the most consequential bills ever signed into law. It can never be understated how significant the enfranchisement of African Americans was in advancing public policies designed to protect underserved communities, and creating a path to the American Dream for those of us who had been blocked out of the political process. Regardless of the debates in Congress concerning the direction of the country and how we will close the wealth gap, create access to affordable housing, eliminate criminal justice disparities, and address the myriad other challenges facing women and minorities, everything begins with the right to vote. The VRA not only allowed African Americans the right to vote, but it effectively dealt with the barriers states imposed to disenfranchise black voters. The VRA outlawed voter intimidation, literacy tests, and other forms of voter suppression. Not only was it critical in ensuring African Americans had access to the polls, but it propelled into office a new wave of African American leaders and elected officials across the country. These officials were elected by their communities to guarantee that African Americans, and all underserved and marginalized communities, would have a say in public policymaking and a stake in America’s future. And yet, while we’ve undoubtedly made progress since 1965, our country still needs the Voting Rights Act to guarantee that every American has equal and uninhibited access to the ballot box, free from seemingly benign but no less nefarious forms of voter suppression. Today, Republicans in Congress and in state legislatures across the country are continuing their concerted efforts to chip away and undermine VRA safeguards. And these efforts have only intensified in the years following the Supreme Court’s devastating decision in Shelby County v. Holder. We’ve seen states pass laws to eliminate early voting days, limit absentee voting, and impose strict voter ID requirements all designed to suppress the votes of African Americans, Latinos, young voters, and seniors. As a result, 50 years later, we find ourselves back where we started – fighting for right for minorities to have full protection of their right to vote. Democrats have introduced three pieces of legislation this Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act and strengthen voting protections for all citizens in the United States. Republicans, however, have refused to act on any of these bills, nor bring forth a solution of their own. Yet, if we do not act soon, 2016 will be the first election in 50 years where voters do not have the full protections of the Voting Rights Act. As we reflect on the success and the history of the Voting Rights Act fifty years later, we must remind ourselves why the legislation is so important. When urging Congress to pass the Voting Rights Act in 1965, President Lyndon Johnson explained that the right to vote is "the most powerful instrument ever devised by man for breaking down injustice." That sentiment is no less true today than it was fifty years ago.” In 1965, President Johnson signed the Voting Rights Act (VRA), which banned poll taxes and literacy tests, and finally gave African Americans equal access to the ballot box. Because of the surge in African American political participation following its implementation, the Voting Rights Act is widely considered the most important and successful piece of civil rights legislation ever enacted. Recognizing it’s success, Republicans and Democrats in Congress and the White House came together to reauthorize the legislation in 1970, 1975, 1982, and 2006. But in 2013, the Supreme Court’s Shelby County v. Holder decision gutted the Voting Rights Act and the federal government’s ability to prohibit racial discrimination in voting. Since the passage of Shelby, 31 states have introduced a total of 82 bills that restrict voters’ access to the polls.
08.06.2015	LOS ANGELES -- Yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters and her fellow California Delegation Democrat colleague, Karen Bass, joined in sending a letter to the California State Senate President pro Tempore, Kevin de Leon and the Speaker of the California Assembly, Toni Atkins, urging them to support legislation that will impose a moratorium on the Ellis Act, a California law that is increasingly being abused to evict hundreds of veterans, elderly persons, and families. Currently, the whole country is in the midst of a rental housing crisis, which is particularly severe in Los Angeles and California and is putting undue pressure on family budgets. More than 21% of Los Angeles families are being forced to spend more than half of their income on rent. Among extremely low income households in L.A., that figure jumps to 80%. According to the National Low Income Housing Coalition that Los Angeles has a deficit of 370,860 units that are both affordable and available to its residents. Yet, in the midst of this crisis, a dated law, the Ellis Act, is being used to further deplete availability of affordable rental housing in Los Angeles. Originally, the Ellis Act was enacted to protect small time landlords who had been in the rental housing business for several years and who sought to retire. Currently, the Ellis Act is being abused to convert affordable rental housing into high-priced luxury housing developments. This represents an unforeseen use of the law and its original intent, and its negative impact cannot be understated. Under the Ellis Act, in 2014, property owners evicted tenants from 725 units, a significant increase from 308 units the previous year. Similar trends are occurring in San Francisco as well. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, which has jurisdiction over federal public and private housing, Congresswoman Waters has recognized that the increasing evictions leave tenants at risk of homelessness, or subject to higher rents in an already deficient, yet costly rental market. This, in turn, adds pressure on the federal housing programs which are already struggling to meet the existing need. As the Congresswomen explained in the letter, in these times of austerity when there is little hope for a substantial increase in federal funding towards affordable housing, the least we can do is preserve the units of affordable rental housing that are currently available. We don’t need more luxury condominiums in Los Angeles; we need more affordable rental housing, especially for our poorest families. The full text of the letter can be seen below: August 5, 2015 Dear President pro Tempore de León & Speaker Atkins, We write to bring your attention to the growing problem of rental housing conversions and resulting massive tenant displacement that is exacerbating the severe rental housing crisis in California, and particularly in Los Angeles and San Francisco. As you may be aware, the Ellis Act is increasingly being abused by speculators to buy up rental properties under rent control and convert them into condominiums or other types of developments, resulting in mass evictions of tenants, many of whom are elderly residents and many who are subsequently at risk of homelessness. In the midst of one of the worst rental housing crises in California’s history, this depletion of affordable rental housing and tenant displacement is simply unacceptable. We are advocating for a moratorium on the Ellis Act, and we ask that you join our efforts by sponsoring legislation to that effect. As the legislative history makes clear, the Ellis Act was originally seen as protection for small time landlords who had been in the rental housing business for several years and who sought to retire. The way that the Ellis Act is currently being abused to convert affordable rental housing into high-priced luxury housing is an unforeseen use of the law and its original intent. And the consequences of this abuse are devastating. In Los Angeles alone, property owners evicted tenants from 725 units under the Ellis Act in 2014, which is a significant increase from 308 units in the previous year.[1] Similar trends are well-documented in San Francisco with Ellis Act evictions sharply rising from 109 in 2012 to 252 in 2013.[2] These households are being pushed out of their homes into a rental housing market that leaves lower income tenants with few options. In the Los Angeles metro area, 30 percent of households that rent are “severely cost burdened,” meaning that they spend at least half of their income on housing.[3] Among extremely low income households (ELI)[4] in Los Angeles, that figure jumps to 80 percent.[5] In California overall, 21 percent of renter households are considered ELI, and 80 percent of these households are severely cost burdened.[6] In fact, California currently has a deficit of 981,745 rental units that are both affordable and available to ELI households, which is the greatest deficit compared to all other states.[7] Among metropolitan areas, Los Angeles tops the list with a deficit of 370,860 units.[8] With similar trends occurring throughout this country, the lack of affordable rental units in the private sector is putting added pressure on federal housing programs, which are already struggling to meet the existing need. We simply cannot afford to be depleting our limited stock of affordable rental housing at this time. We don’t need more luxury condominiums; we need more affordable rental housing units, especially for our poorest California households. Unfortunately, under tight budget constraints, neither the state nor the federal government has demonstrated that it has the political willpower to invest heavily in the creation of new affordable housing units at this time. The least that we can do in this time of great need is to do our best to protect our existing affordable housing stock. For these reasons, we sincerely hope that you will support our efforts to protect tenants and to preserve our affordable housing stock by sponsoring legislation that will impose a moratorium on the Ellis Act. We are confident that landlords will remain adequately protected in having the option to exit the rental market by simply selling their property to another owner who will maintain it as a rental property. It is high time that we seriously reconsider the merits of this law in light of the havoc it has wreaked in our cities. * * * 1 Larry Gross, “L.A.’s Eviction Game,” The Los Angeles Times, June 9, 2015. 2 Tenants Together & the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project, “The Speculator Loophole: Ellis Act Evictions in San Francisco,” April 2, 2014. 3 National Housing Conference & Center for Housing Policy, “Housing Affordability Challenges in the Los Angeles Metro Area,” Housing Landscape 2014. 4 Extremely low income households are those with income at or below 30 percent of area median income. 5 Id. 6 National Low Income Housing Coalition, 2015 State Housing Profiles 7 National Low Income Housing Coalition, Housing Spotlight, Vol. 5, Issue 1, March 2015 8 Id.
08.01.2015	WASHINGTON – On Saturday, August 1, 2015, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, delivered the keynote speech at the American Bar Association Commission on Racial and Ethnic Diversity in the Profession Event titled, “50 Years Later: The Voting Rights Act of 1965.” Other Panelists at the event included Soledad O'Brien, Emmy and Peabody Award winning TV news anchor and journalist and Special Advisor, ABA Commission on Hispanic Legal Rights & Responsibilities, Hans von Spakovsky, Manager and Senior Fellow at the Heritage Foundation; and Tom Saenz, President & General Counsel of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund (MALDEF). In her remarks, Congresswoman Waters focused on the long history of attacks on African American and minority enfranchisement and recognized that, 50 year after the enactment of the Voting Rights Act, we find ourselves in a similar position fighting to strengthened weakened voting protection laws. The Congresswoman highlighted the efforts of civil rights leader and advocates, including her colleague, Congressman John Lewis, and his career-long fight for the right to vote and called on Republicans in Congress to step to the plate and pass one of the several voting rights pieces of legislation introduced by Democrats this Congress. The full text of her remarks can be found below: I would like to thank Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer, Jack Rives, the American Bar Association’s Commission on Racial and Ethnic Diversity and the entire ABA for having me here and hosting this very important and much needed discussion on the Voting Rights Act. A common truth that we all have heard – maybe even well before we have understood it – is that history tends to repeat itself. And, as someone who has served as an elected official for over 30 years, I can attest that, if you are around long enough you find out that that saying rings very true. And there are few better examples of that than the recently renewed fight for the Voting Rights Act in the United States. The story of the Voting Rights Act starts not at its passage, but with the short lived era of Reconstruction and the passage of the 13th, 14th and 15th Amendments. While the 13th Amendment freed the slaves, and the 14th Amendment gave them citizenship, the key amendment to the Reconstruction Era was the 15th Amendment, which gave male slaves the right to vote. These new laws immediately enfranchised more than 700,000 black Southerners which instantly became the majority of eligible voters in some Southern states. As you can imagine, their enfranchisement revolutionized not only the Southern political system, but began to impact the Southern way of life. Their effect was not only felt at the polls, but extended directly into the state and federal legislatures. Many scholars have identified that over 1500 African Americans held office during the Reconstruction Era, including Blanche K. Bruce, a U.S. Senator from Mississippi, Hiram Revels, a U.S. Senator from Mississippi, and Joseph Hayne Rainey, the First African American elected to the U.S. House of Representatives. With the influx of black legislators came new policies that addressed the needs and interest of this new Southern, African American electorate. For example, newly implemented policy changes such as creating state supported public schools or instituting property tax directly served to address the needs of an African American community high in numbers but short on wealth. In response to African American enfranchisement, opponents throughout the South engaged in a determined, brutal and violent campaign to suppress the black vote. In an effort to “redeem the state”, black legislators were killed, threatened, beaten, or jailed. In their place arose white supremacists, who employed the efforts of the Ku Klux Klan, or in some cases were Klansmen themselves, to further suppress the black vote through additional violence. We are all too familiar with these tactics where blacks were held at gunpoint to keep them away from the polls. Crosses were burned and people were beaten for not acquiescing to these demands. As a result, black legislators and voters were silenced and conservatives quickly retook control of the South. So, within 15 years of the Civil War’s end, Reconstruction, black legislators and black empowerment was just a distant memory. Without black legislators to stand in opposition, what followed was the era of Jim Crow, the poll tax, the literacy test, and a host of other mechanisms and states sanctioned policies that continued to block the black vote for decades, dismantle African American communities and destroy the dignity of life for African Americans in the South. At the heart of these policies and these tactics, was not just the desire to win elections, but also, the deep seated, ugly racist hatred against African Americans. In response, starting with the landmark ruling in Brown v. Board of Education, followed by some of the most significant events in our history such as the killing of Emmitt Till, the stand taken by Rosa Parks, the creation of the Student Christian Leadership Conference, the Little Rock Nine, and the transformative leadership of Dr. Martin Luther King, the Civil Rights Movement began. The Movement’s lofty goals were to combat this hatred against African Americans, eradicate Jim Crow policies, end racial segregation and secure the federal protections guaranteed by the Constitution. As we all know, the movement ultimately led Congress to finally pass the Civil Rights Act, once in 1957, and again in 1964, which extended several protections to African Americans in the context of education, employment and public accommodations. However, in an effort to attract bi-partisan support, both pieces of legislation contained weakened voting provisions, largely leaving the harmful poll tax and the literacy tests in place. As a result, while African Americans saw progress, they still found their voices largely unheard. Recognizing this shortcoming, on Sunday, March 7, 1965, a day now known as “Bloody Sunday”, six-hundred marchers assembled in Selma, Alabama and, led by my colleague John Lewis and other activists, crossed the Edmund Pettus Bridge over the Alabama River en route to Montgomery. Just short of the bridge, they found their way blocked by Alabama State troopers and local police who ordered them to turn around. When the protesters refused, the officers shot teargas and waded into the crowd, beating the nonviolent protesters with clubs and ultimately hospitalizing over fifty people. “Bloody Sunday” was televised around the world. In response, Martin Luther King, Jr. called for civil rights supporters to come to Selma for a second march. King led the second protest two days later on March 9, 1965 but was forced to turn back, facing the same hatred and violence. Finally, on March 21st, only after being armed with federal protection, were activists able to successfully march to Montgomery. At the marches conclusion, Dr. King directly pressured President Lyndon B. Johnson to pass comprehensive voting rights legislation. President Johnson, however, initially denied his request, reminding Dr. King that he had just passed the Civil Rights Act, claiming that the law sufficiently addressed African American civil rights. King persisted, explaining a sentiment that rings true today, that without comprehensive, strong and fully enforceable voting rights legislation, all the protections afforded in the Civil Rights Act were done in vain. Dr. King’s persuasiveness eventually took hold, and 5 days after the march, President Johnson announced to a joint session of Congress that he would bring them an effective voting rights bill and on August 6, 1965, Johnson signed into law the Voting Rights Act hailed by many as the most effective civil rights law ever enacted. The title as the most effective civil rights law was rightfully earned. The Voting Rights Act of 1965 contained the extraordinary measure, Section 5, which required 7 states with histories of black disenfranchisement to undergo preclearance, which means to submit any future changes in statewide, national and local voting law for approval by federal authorities. Not only was the Voting Rights Act extraordinary, it was effective. By 1968, just three years after the Voting Rights Act became law; black voter registration had increased substantially across the South, to 62 percent. This served as a clear indication that the legislation was not only needed but that it worked. Nevertheless, by subjecting certain states for additional scrutiny, the law was deemed the ultimate affront to states’ rights and continued to face political attacks. Despite these attacks, the Voting Rights Act was reauthorized on a bi-partisan basis, in 1970, 1975, 1982, 1992 and, most recently, in 2006. Since its enactment, African American progress has been wholly evident. The Black community has made voting and voter registration a top priority. In 1994 and in 1998 Jesse Jackson ran for President and his campaigned registered thousands of new voters. These black registration drives and black campaigns helped to elect hundreds of new black legislators in local, state and congressional races. Today, there are 43 members of the Congressional Black Caucus which I have once chaired. I now continue to serve as a Member of the Caucus, whose primary purpose remains addressing the concerns and advancing the interests of the African American community and who maintain a commitment to ensuring voting rights, increasing voter registration and enhancing voter protections. And of course, we can attribute the Voting Rights Act to the changes in this country that ultimately led to the election of President Barack Obama, the nation’s first black president. As was the case during Reconstruction, with the advent of African American electoral progress came great opposition. In the years that followed the election of President Obama, we witnessed a resurgence of tactics designed to erode voter protections that originally started in 2004 in the Bush v. Gore Presidential race. In 2004, we can surely all remember Florida where there were too few polling places, long lines, and a disproportionate numbers of minority votes not being counted. Four short years later, President Obama won his first historic election, largely based on voter turnout and attracting a base of new minority and young voters. So in response, in 2010, several states again began attempting to roll back early voting, eliminate same-day registration, disqualify ballots filed outside home precincts and create new demands for photo ID at polling places to discourage and prevent this new base of voters from getting to the polls. Fortunately, through the persistent and tireless advocacy of civil rights organizations, black leadership and the efforts of then-Attorney General Eric Holder, Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act was invoked and eliminated the implementation of the majority of these harmful voting laws. Consequently, in 2012, for the first time in history black voter turnout exceeded white voter turnout by 2 percentage points and the nation re-elected its first black President for a second term. But yet again, great backlash followed. In 2013, the following year, the Supreme Court dealt the Voting Rights Act its heaviest blow, in the case of Shelby v. Holder, which directly shutdown the Section 5 authority of the Voting Rights Act. Chief Justice John Roberts Jr., writing for the majority, declared that because the Voting Rights Act worked so well, assumptions of voting discrimination are no longer valid and the law was no longer needed. With Section 5 behind them, Republican state legislators immediately proceeded with a new round of even more restrictive voting laws. Since the passage of Shelby, 31 states have introduced a total of 82 bills that restrict voters’ access to the polls. For example, states have implemented statutes that limit early voting and registration or require voters to present voter identification. All of these statutes have the same effect as literacy tests and poll taxes – disproportionately limiting African American and minority votes. Because of the Shelby decision, these statutes are not only legal, but are implemented without any review or approval from the federal government. As a result, in 2014, voters in 22 states faced tougher voting requirements in the most recent midterm election, the same election that saw declining minority voter turnout. And, unless Congress acts, the 2016 election will be the first in 50 years where voters will not have the full protections of the Voting Rights Act that so many lost their lives to obtain. But just as black leaders in the Reconstruction Era and during the Civil Rights Movement persevered when confronted with opposition, black leaders in Congress are continuing to fight to restore the Voting Rights Act. As I have done every year for the past 20 years, this year, I, along with nearly 100 of my colleagues traveled to Selma, Alabama to commemorate the anniversary of Bloody Sunday and the March in Selma. This year held special significance, because not only was it the 50th Anniversary, but it is a time when we are facing the exact same fight. History has indeed repeated itself and we find ourselves, once again, without full protections of our right to vote. Currently, led once again by Congressman John Lewis, Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee and longtime advocate, John Conyers, and Members of the Congressional Black Caucus, three pieces of legislation have been introduced to resolve this urgent problem: H.R. 855, the Voting Rights Amendment Act, H.R. 2867, the Voting Rights Advancement Act and H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act. However, as we look at these bills we again see history repeating itself. The first bill, the Voting Rights Amendment Act, was a bipartisan piece of legislation introduced in 2014. Yet, similar to the Civil Rights Act, which had weak voting protections in an effort to obtain bi-partisan support, the Voting Rights Amendment Act faces the same problem. At the time of its drafting, Members of the Congressional Black Caucus were not happy with this bill. Since 2010, we have been struggling against a Republican majority, strongly influenced by their most conservative arm, the Tea-Party. It has been difficult to get support for progressive legislation of any kind, in particular for voting rights legislation strong enough to overcome the damage done by the Shelby case. Therefore, when then-Republican majority leader of the House, Eric Cantor, promised Democrats that if they kept the bill limited and bi-partisan, then it would come up for a vote, many reluctantly accepted under the philosophy that some voting protections are better than no protections at all. Therefore, my colleagues introduced H.R. 855, which included Republican forced compromises such as an exemption for voter ID laws and enabling fewer states to be automatically covered under Section 5’s provisions. Despite these major concessions, however, the Republicans never kept their word and the legislation was never voted on. Fed up with the Republicans refusal to keep their word, this year Democrats and the Congressional Black Caucus decided to introduce legislation that would fully restore voter rights protections to our communities. What resulted was H.R. 2867, the Voting Rights Advancement Act. H.R. 2867 ﻿restores Section 5 by requiring states with 15 voting violations over the past 25 years, or 10 violations if one was statewide, to undergo preclearance and submit future election changes for federal approval. This new formula would initially fully cover 13 states including Alabama, Arkansas, Arizona, California, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia. H.R. 2867 is decidedly better than the bipartisan legislation previously mentioned, H.R. 855, which only fully covered 4 states Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas. The 13 states covered by H.R. 2867 account for half of the United States population and encompass most of the places where voting discrimination is most prevalent today, like Florida, North Carolina, and Texas. Additionally, this new formula includes the Southern states that were initially targeted by the Voting Rights Act, where discrimination against African-Americans remains a disquieting problem, along with diverse coastal states like California and New York, which have more recently discriminated against ethnic groups like Latinos and Asian-Americans, reflecting the continuously changing demographics of this country. Additionally, H.R. 2867 does not contain any carve outs for discriminatory voter ID laws, and also requires states to get preclearance for specific election changes that often target minority voters today. Therefore, states would need to get federal approval for things like new voter ID laws and proof-of-citizenship requirements for voter registration. H.R. 2867 is currently co-sponsored by 88 Democrats, but, unfortunately has not secured any Republican support. Lastly, Congressman Lewis has introduced yet another piece of voting rights legislation that, if implemented, would work to strengthen both of the previously mentioned bills. H.R. 12, the Voter Empowerment Act, serves as a comprehensive proposal to modernize the way we vote. This bill would update our voter registration system, allow online voter registration, require 15 consecutive days of early voting in every state, assist voters with disabilities and ensure the equitable distribution of polling place resources. Our voting system is in much need of technological improvements and there really is no reason why Congress hasn’t acted to pass this piece of legislation, but yet again, this bill has no Republican co-sponsors. Congress is now in recess and will be away for the full month of August without strong voting rights legislation in place. The right wing conservatives are exercising their extraordinary influence over the entire Congress and the entire country. We are up against mean spirited, states’ rights conservatives who resent the growing power of minorities in this country and who are intent on creating laws and policies to curtail it. Congress, under the leadership of the Congressional Black Caucus, must do everything possible to pass and sign into law a credible voting rights bill to protect the gains so many have fought, sacrificed and died for. This is no small matter. This is not just another ordinary piece of legislation that we are dealing with. We are dealing with the right of a people who demand and deserve justice and equality in this country. Just as we saw after the years of Reconstruction, without protection at the polls, African Americans and other minorities are subject to tactics that will dismantle our voice in this country. While the tactics may no longer be Ku Klux Klan-enforced, they are no less effective, at eliminating the black vote and black legislative power. As history has shown, these tactics are not coincidental, but they have been a decades-long attack to ensure certain people are in power, certain voices are heard and certain interests are favored. We are up against the people like the Koch brothers, and rulings like Citizens United which both continue to build financial support to fund right wing elections and to serve the conservative agenda. While the attacks against voting rights are grounded in pretty packages like states’ rights or voter fraud, history demonstrates that at their heart is the desire to prevent African Americans and other minorities from participating in the electoral process. This is unconstitutional, undemocratic and un-American. And I, with my colleagues in Congress, organized civil rights groups, faith based religious communities, college students, human rights activists and progressive women organizations will not accept any erosion of our rights. We are prepared to engage in whatever fight necessary and will not quit until we can restore voting rights protections for all. * * *
07.30.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, marked the 50th anniversary of the creation of Medicare and Medicaid. President Lyndon Johnson signed into law legislation creating Medicare and Medicaid on July 30, 1965. “No two programs have changed more lives than Medicare and Medicaid since President Johnson signed them into law in 1965,” said Congresswoman Waters. “Medicare and Medicaid save lives, help people live longer, and provide the peace of mind that comes with affordable health care that’s there when you need it.” Medicare and Medicaid have helped to successfully reduce the poverty rate among older Americans from 28.5% in 1966 to 9% today. They have also helped to relieve the economic burdens on millions of low-income families. In Congresswoman Waters’ congressional district, more than 180,000 people are covered by Medicaid, and more than 81,000 people are covered by Medicare. Together, these two programs provide essential health services to more than one third of the district’s residents. “Access to affordable, quality health care is a fundamental American value, and Medicare and Medicaid have helped millions of Americans live with economic security and dignity,” said Congresswoman Waters. However, the Republican Budget shifts more costs onto Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, cuts Medicaid by more than $1 trillion, and ends Medicare as we know it. “During a time when we need to preserve and strengthen Medicare and Medicaid, the Republican Budget moves us backward,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The Republican Budget cuts health benefits for the most vulnerable Americans, including seniors, the disabled, and low-income families. I call on my Republican colleagues to stop the attacks on Medicare and Medicaid and protect these two critical health programs.”
07.17.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and a leading advocate in Congress for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing and treatment, introduced a resolution (H.Res. 366) in the House of Representatives today to honor National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, which is celebrated on July 21st, and encourages the nation’s health care providers to promote HIV testing among their patients. The resolution was cosponsored by 23 Members of Congress. “National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day is an excellent opportunity to highlight the important role that doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians play in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, and treatment efforts and to encourage them to promote HIV testing among their patients,” said Congresswoman Waters. H.Res. 366 urges physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. “More than 1.2 million people are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and almost one in eight do not know they are infected. By encouraging their patients to be tested for HIV, doctors and nurses can enable infected individuals to access appropriate medical care and begin taking action to avoid spreading the virus to others,” stated Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is a leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998. On March 26th of this year, she sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2016, which was signed by 66 Members of Congress. In February, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 768), a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons; H.R. 768 is cosponsored by 33 of her colleagues. Last December, she sent a letter to the President urging him to prioritize funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs is his budget request, which was signed by 54 Members of Congress.
07.16.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chairs of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, today introduced Alzheimer’s Action Now, a package of four bills that together will help Alzheimer’s patients and their families; promote public awareness of Alzheimer’s disease; and encourage voluntary contributions to research efforts. The entire legislative package has been endorsed by the Alzheimer’s Association, the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America, and USAgainstAlzheimer’s. “I have asked all of my colleagues to cosponsor Alzheimer’s Action Now,” said Congresswoman Waters. “With more than five million Americans suffering from Alzheimer’s disease, we must do everything we can to confront this disease and help the patients and families who are struggling to live with it.” “Alzheimer’s Action Now is a package of bills which, if enacted, will encourage quality care of Alzheimer’s patients and assist their families,” said Congressman Smith. “The support offered through these policies will have a direct and positive impact on the 15 million Americans who act as unpaid caregivers, and help enable them to continue their heroic service to their loved ones.” The Alzheimer’s Action Now legislative package includes the following bills: The Alzheimer’s Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 3090), introduced today by Rep. Waters with 44 original cosponsors, authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of patients with Alzheimer’s disease. With the majority of Alzheimer’s patients living at home, under the care of family and friends, it is important to ensure these caregivers have access to the training and resources they need to provide effective, compassionate care. The Missing Alzheimer’s Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 3091), introduced today by Rep. Waters with 44 original cosponsors, reauthorizes a Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer’s disease who wander away from their homes and reunite them with their families. This program saves law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns. It also reduces injuries and deaths among Alzheimer’s patients, and it brings peace of mind to their families. The Alzheimer’s Disease Semipostal Stamp Act (H.R. 3092), introduced today by Rep. Waters with 46 original cosponsors, requires the U.S. Postal Service to issue and sell a semipostal stamp, with the proceeds helping to fund Alzheimer’s research at the National Institutes of Health. This bill will raise public awareness about Alzheimer’s and encourage concerned individuals to get involved and make voluntary contributions to Alzheimer’s research efforts. The bill is modeled on the popular and successful Breast Cancer Research Semipostal Stamp. The Health Outcomes, Planning, and Education (HOPE) for Alzheimer’s Act (H.R. 1559), introduced on March 24th by Rep. Smith, now with over 200 cosponsors, would provide Medicare coverage of a care planning session to explain medical and non-medical options for Alzheimer’s treatment and offer support for newly-diagnosed individuals. While Medicare currently covers a diagnostic evaluation of Alzheimer’s for beneficiaries, the program offers little support in terms of next steps. The HOPE for Alzheimer’s Act will ensure that patients and caregivers have information on available resources and an individualized plan to cope, providing a path forward for millions of American families. The Co-Chairs also marked the Administration’s release of the 2015 Update to the National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease. The National Plan established the critical goals of preventing and effectively treating Alzheimer’s disease by 2025; enhancing care quality and efficiency; expanding supports for people with Alzheimer’s disease and their families; enhancing public awareness; and tracking progress. The 2015 Update was released earlier this week during the White House Conference on Aging and may be found online at the following link: https://aspe.hhs.gov/daltcp/napa/NatlPlan2015.shtml#intro “I congratulate the Administration for completing the 2015 Update to the National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease,” said Congresswoman Waters. “I look forward to reviewing the update and working with the Administration and my colleagues in the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease to achieve the plan’s goals.” “The 2015 Update to the National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease released this week shows progress but highlights how much more work we have to do,” said Congressman Smith. “As my colleagues and I review the update to the Plan, I strongly encourage Members of Congress to support this legislation needed to improve care for Alzheimer’s.”
07.14.2015	WASHINGTON – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, marked the 50th anniversary of the landmark Older Americans Act today. President Lyndon Johnson signed this important law on July 14, 1965. The Older Americans Act funds critical services that help keep older adults healthy and independent – services such as meals-on-wheels and other nutrition programs, in-home services, transportation, senior centers, elder abuse prevention, and caregiver support. “The importance of the Older Americans Act and the services it funds for seniors, caregivers, and their families cannot be overstated,” said Congresswoman Waters. “These services help seniors stay as independent as possible in their homes and communities. Services such as meals-on-wheels, transportation, and caregiver support have been vital for many of the seniors in my congressional district who want to be able to remain in their own homes.” Just over the last five years, the Older Americans Act has funded: More than 1 billion meals-on-wheels and congregate meals; Over 130 million rides to doctor’s offices, grocery stores, and other essential places; Over 60 million hours of homemaker services, allowing seniors to remain in their homes; and Over 30 million hours of respite care, providing caregivers the vital rest and support they need. “I urge my colleagues in Congress to pass legislation this year reauthorizing and strengthening the Older Americans Act,” said Congresswoman Waters. “It is the least we owe all of America’s seniors.” As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer’s Disease, Congresswoman Waters is a leader of congressional efforts to assist older Americans who are affected by Alzheimer’s. Together with her colleagues, Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Congressman Chaka Fattah (D-PA), and Congressman John Garamendi (D-CA), she has announced plans to introduce Alzheimer’s Action Now, a set of bills that together will help Alzheimer’s patients and their families; promote public awareness of Alzheimer’s disease; and encourage voluntary contributions to research efforts. Alzheimer’s Action Now has been endorsed by the Alzheimer’s Association, the Alzheimer’s Foundation of America, and USAgainstAlzheimer’s. “I have asked all of my colleagues to cosponsor Alzheimer’s Action Now,” said Congresswoman Waters. “With more than five million American seniors suffering from Alzheimer’s disease, we must do everything we can to confront this disease and help the patients and families who are struggling to live with it.”
07.10.2015	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, commended the decision of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to grant her request to extend the public comment period on the FAA’s Draft Environmental Assessment (EA) for the Southern California Metroplex (SoCal Metroplex) project. The public comment period on the Draft EA has been extended by 60 calendar days to September 8, 2015. “I am delighted that the FAA granted my request to allow a sufficient period for interested parties to read, analyze, and comment on a very complicated plan, which will hopefully result in a more efficient and environmentally friendly system of managing the arrivals and departures at the airports in our region,” said Congresswoman Waters. In a letter to U.S. Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx dated June 18, 2015, Congresswoman Waters stressed that the initial 30-day comment period announced by the FAA when the Draft EA was released on June 10th was not sufficient to allow community stakeholders to read and analyze how the SoCal Metroplex project will affect their communities. The letter was co-signed by nine additional Members of Congress from the Southern California delegation. “The Southern California region is one of the most densely populated regions of the country, as well as an extremely busy region for air travel,” said the Congresswoman and her colleagues in the letter. “The region includes Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), San Diego International Airport (SAN), and more than a dozen separate airports of various sizes. Thousands of people who live and work near these airports already experience significant levels of airport noise. They deserve to have a sufficient opportunity to give serious consideration to how the SoCal Metroplex project will impact their daily lives.” The full text of the Congresswoman’s letter can be found online here: https://waters.house.gov/sites/waters.house.gov/files/FAA%20Metroplex%20EA%20comment%20period%20letter%2006-18-15.pdf On July 1, 2015, Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) also sent a letter to the FAA requesting an extension of the comment period. The Draft EA and supporting materials are available at selected libraries throughout the area and can be found online here: https://www.metroplexenvironmental.com/socal_metroplex/socal_docs.html The FAA encourages interested parties to review the Draft EA, and provide written comments during the public comment period and no later than September 8, 2015.
05.19.2015	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, commemorated Asian Pacific American Heritage Month with the following statement, and detailed her history serving Asian American and Pacific Islander constituents: "Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders significantly contribute to our vibrant national identity, and Asian Pacific American Heritage Month invites us all to recognize and celebrate those contributions. The AAPI community in the United States is diverse and vibrant. We're enriched with over 16 million people representing 45 different ethnic groups and 28 languages. Additionally, AAPI individuals make up the fastest growing immigrant population in our country. My district is home to a large AAPI community, which grows each year as families come to the United States seeking opportunities in cities such as Los Angeles, Gardena, and Torrance. I consider my participation in the Gardena Valley Japanese Cultural Institute's Day of Remembrance events as a top priority, which are organized by Executive Director Allison Kochiyama. I have witnessed the stories of many Japanese families who were victims of President Franklin Roosevelt's misguided and unfortunate Executive Order #9066, which unconstitutionally mandated the internment of approximately 120,000 people of Japanese descent during WWII. I am committed to protecting the rights of all citizens from these kinds of discriminatory policies. Another privilege of serving my AAPI constituents was participating in the ceremonial presentation of the Congressional Gold Medal to approximately 285 living Nisei veterans, widows, or next-of-kin relatives of the highly decorated Japanese American 100th Infantry Battalion, the 442nd Regimental Combat Team, and the Military Intelligence Service for their courageous sacrifices and dedicated service during WWII. The Congressional Gold Medal is one of the highest civilian honors in the United States, and it was presented to the recipients in 2012 at the "Go For Broke" monument in Little Tokyo, which is a tribute to the Constitution and the steadfast patriotism of the segregated Japanese American units during WWII. Over the years I have been supportive of and honored by the Filipino Veterans Foundation, and in 2013, I joined with the City of Carson and the Filipino American Chamber of Commerce in disaster relief efforts for victims of typhoon Haiyan, which devastated portions of Southeast Asia, particularly the Philippines, in early-November 2013 I'm also proud of my relationship with the Korean American community. I've participated in events ranging from those sponsored by the Korean American Foundation to the Korean Churches for Community Development's Home Ownership Fairs. The homeownership rate for Korean Americans in Los Angeles County is far below the rate of other demographics, and these home ownership fairs help people connect with various programs and resources to make home ownership a reality. I will also never forget the 2013 "Fred Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the Constitution" commemoration in Torrance, the first day in the U.S. to be named after an Asian-American. Mr. Korematsu resisted internment during WWII, took his case to the Supreme Court, and ultimately had his conviction overturned in 1983. We must never forget the challenges and obstacles overcome by so many members of the AAPI community in American history. And just last month, I organized an event at the Japanese American National Museum to congratulate Gary Miyatake, a third-generation photographer in my district, as he unveiled his historic portrait of Cesar Chavez, an American farm worker, labor leader, and civil rights activist, who devoted his life to fair and just treatment for workers. The portrait will be displayed and stored at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History. These are just a few of the many stories that I bring in joining the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus to represent the voices of families in the APPI community in my district, who add their rich experiences and backgrounds to the diverse fabric of our nation. Let's use this month to reflect on the value of such diversity, and reaffirm our commitment to a thriving American Dream."
05.05.2015	Congresswoman Waters Celebrates Cinco de Mayo and Recognizes Contributions of Mexican Americans to Our Nation May 5, 2015 Los Angeles, CA – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in celebration of Cinco de Mayo: "Today I am proud to join many of my constituents in California's 43rd District in celebrating Cinco de Mayo and Mexico's triumph over the French Army in the Battle of Puebla in 1862. Cinco de Mayo is not only an occasion to commemorate this historic victory; it is a moment to reflect on Mexican Americans' rich history and just how much Mexico's quest for liberty and self-determination parallels our forefathers' efforts to build an independent nation. And it is from that history that the United States was born a nation of immigrants, under principles that all peoples – regardless of their race or color – are worthy of dignity and respect. In the United States, Cinco de Mayo is a celebration of this shared vision and the rich cultural heritage Mexican Americans have brought with them for many generations. Latinos are a vital part of our society, workforce, economy and culture not only in Los Angeles but all throughout California and across the United States. And Latinos share with other Americans the common goals of freedom, opportunity, and a chance to build a better life. On this special day I express my appreciation to Mexican American and Latino communities for enriching our society and culture as I continue fighting for policies that promote fairness, equality, justice and opportunity for all – not the least of which includes long overdue comprehensive immigration reform." ###
04.30.2015	Congresswoman Waters Introduces Bipartisan Resolution to Make Alzheimer's Disease an Urgent National Priority Resolution Calls for Significant Increase in Funding for Alzheimer's Research April 30, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, introduced a resolution today declaring that the goal to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's disease is an urgent national priority. Joining the Congresswoman as original cosponsors of the resolution are three of the leaders of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease: Co-Chair Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chair Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA), and Rep. John Garamendi (D-CA). "Alzheimer's is a tragic disease with no effective treatment, no means of prevention, nor even a method for slowing the progression of the disease," said Congresswoman Waters. "With five million Americans living with Alzheimer's disease and this number expected to almost triple by the year 2050, we must take action now to change the trajectory of this disease!" "National Alzheimer's Project Act established a concerted federal effort to address the 6th leading cause of death in the United States," said Congressman Smith. "This resolution reaffirms our commitment to meeting the goals and objectives of NAPA—to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's by 2025. To do so, we must make a robust investment in research to raise the quality of life for patients and families, as well as reduce future costs." The resolution declares that achieving the primary goal of the National Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease to prevent and effectively treat Alzheimer's by 2025 is an urgent national priority. The resolution also states that the House of Representatives strives to significantly increase the amount of funding the United States spends on Alzheimer's research in fiscal year 2016 and develop a plan for fiscal years 2017 through 2020 to spend two billion dollars each year on Alzheimer's research. "Finding new treatments and ultimately a cure for Alzheimer's disease is critical to the well-being of our country, with the potential to impact the lives of the millions of Americans suffering from the disease and their families. Alzheimer's disease ranks as the most expensive health condition in the United States, and as a nation—and a Congress—we must commit ourselves to solving this national health challenge and move swiftly to take action," said Congressman Fattah. "Increasing our investments in medical research, especially neuroscience, is the best step forward and I am proud to join my colleagues in elevating this as a federal priority." "The financial and emotional toll of this disease is enormous, and it's growing," said Congressman Garamendi. "Yet for every dollar spent on care for Alzheimer's, we spend less than a penny on research for treatment and prevention. May our dedication and resolve match the urgency and scope of the task before us, transforming the National Plan into an international solution to the Alzheimer's crisis." The resolution was endorsed by the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America. A similar resolution (S.Res. 74) was introduced in the Senate by Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senator Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) on February 12, 2015. Last month, Reps. Waters, Smith and Garamendi sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requested a $200 million increase in funding for Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in fiscal year 2016. Their letter was signed by a bipartisan group of 63 Members of Congress. ###
04.28.2015	Waters, Durbin Introduce Legislation to Strengthen Students' Legal Rights Following the Closure of Corinthian Colleges, top Dems in House and Senate introduce CLASS Act to end forced arbitration in student enrollment agreements Washington, DC- On the heels of the closure of Corinthian Colleges, one of the most fraudulent and harmful for-profit college institutions in U.S. history, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Senator Dick Durbin (D-IL) have introduced legislation designed to strengthen students' rights and protection under our court system. The bill, entitled the Court Legal Access & Student Support (CLASS) Act, prohibits any school receiving student aid funding from the Department of Education from including any restrictions on students' ability to pursue legal claims, individually or with others, against higher education institutions in court. The CLASS Act is an attempt to end the growing, strategic use of mandatory arbitration and class action waiver clauses in enrollment agreements by Corinthian Colleges and other institutions. If this bill had been law in the last several years, students defrauded by the now-failed Corinthian Colleges would have been able to seek redress from the courts and relief directly from the school. "This legislation will help put an end to the use of mandatory arbitration clauses in federally funded school enrollment agreements – a trend that does nothing but protect the predatory institutions that are harming our children," said Congresswoman Waters, the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee. "As we have seen with Corinthian Colleges, the for-profit college industry is rife with bad actors that lure potential students into some of the most expensive academic programs, all while knowingly and fraudulently misrepresenting the quality and success of these programs. These schools use mandatory arbitration clauses and other tactics to shield themselves from being held responsible for this wrongdoing. This legislation will take bold action toward eliminating these types of provisions, putting an end to many troubling practices and ultimately giving students' back the right to their day in court." "For years, unscrupulous for-profit colleges have enriched themselves by sucking up billions in federal student loan dollars while leaving students with worthless degrees and a mountain of debt," said Durbin. "Students have had little to no recourse, unable to hold these companies accountable in court because of the fine print in enrollment contracts. The practices of requiring binding, mandatory arbitration or prohibiting students from seeking a jury trial or bringing class action suits against a company unfairly stack the decks against students. Our bill would prevent institutions that use these and other hurdles to block students' rights to have their day in court from receiving Title IV education funding." For several years, Corinthian Colleges knowingly engaged in fraudulent conduct at the expense of thousands of students across this country. Specifically, Corinthian misrepresented the quality and success of its programs at the expense of students seeking the opportunity to earn a quality education and a successful career. Compounding these harms, Corinthian Colleges included in their enrollment agreements provisions that limited students access to courts and their ability to hold Corinthian accountable for its misconduct. Moreover, ECMC, the not-for-profit institution that bought 56 former Corinthian College locations has adopted similar provisions in its enrollment agreements, suggesting that the practice of limiting students' legal rights through the fine print of enrollment agreements is not only continuing, but is possibly spreading into the non-profit sector. Congresswoman Waters was joined by several colleagues including Reps. Ellison, Blumenauer, Holmes Norton, Grijalva, Chu, Rangel, Lee, Cohen, Cummings and Takano. Additionally, the Senators Brown, Boxer and Franken joined Senator Durbin's legislation. Lastly, the legislation is supported by a number of consumer and student advocates including Fair Arbitration Now, Public Citizen, National Consumer Law Center (on behalf of its low-income clients), Center for Responsible Lending, American Association for Justice, National Association of Consumer Advocates, Alliance For Justice, The Institute for College Access and Success,Consumers Union, Consumer Action and U.S. PIRG, National Employment Lawyers Association, The Employee Rights Advocacy Institute for Law & Policy, Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety, Workplace Fairness, the Center for Justice and Democracy, and Homeowners Against Deficient Dwellings. A summary of the CLASS Act is available here. Full bill text can be found here. ###
04.27.2015	CONGRESSWOMAN WATERS COMMENTS ON CORINTHIAN COLLEGES' CLOSURE April 27, 2015 Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement on the decision by Corinthian Colleges to discontinue its operations after years of fraudulent activity and ongoing state and federal investigations. Since her time as a California Assemblywoman, Congresswoman Waters has fought to hold predatory for-profit colleges accountable to students and taxpayers. Most recently, she became the first Member of Congress to endorse the ‘Corinthian 100' in their Debt Strike. Waters released the following statement: "Yesterday it was announced that Corinthian Colleges will close down its more than two dozen remaining schools, including the 13 schools in California. This announcement comes in the wake of state and federal investigations and enforcement actions, including a $30 million fine levied by the Department of Education earlier this month, concerning Corinthian's widespread fraudulent practices. For years we have known about the harm these schools have placed on students, making this decision to close long overdue. It is unconscionable that under these circumstances, Corinthian schools were still allowed to enroll new students, receive taxpayer dollars and profit off the backs of the country's most vulnerable student population under the false promise of a quality education. My hope now is that any student harmed by Corinthian Colleges receives complete forgiveness of their debt so they may have the opportunity to pursue their education at a school which will prepare them for a successful career. Further, it will be imperative that Corinthian Colleges and the Department of Education ensure that loan discharge and any other forms of relief are readily available and easily accessible for all students. I will continue to work with students, advocates and the Department of Education to ensure that available remedies are widely publicized and free of unnecessary administrative hurdles and inaccurate information so students do not suffer any additional burdens. Going forward, I will continue to fight to hold predatory for-profit colleges accountable to students and taxpayers. I hope that in the future we do not ever allow any other for-profit institution to engage in such widespread wrongdoing and that we act more swiftly and aggressively to curb federal funding for any institution abusing the rights of our students." ###
04.22.2015	Rep. Waters Congratulates Torrance-Based Newspaper for Pulitzer Prize Award The Daily Breeze Was Given Journalism's Highest Honor for Excellence in Local Reporting WASHINGTON – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) congratulated the Daily Breeze, a Torrance, California-based newspaper, for winning the Pulitzer Prize, which is the journalism industry's most prestigious award. On Monday, the Daily Breeze was recognized for local reporting on an investigative series into the Centinela Valley Union High School District, which uncovered serious issues and concerns within the school district and its governance. "The Pulitzer Prize is journalism's highest honor, and I commend the Daily Breeze for this achievement," said Rep. Maxine Waters. "This recognition is not only a testament to the serious and profound attention the Daily Breeze writers give to the most important issues, but it affirms why it is critical to maintain and strengthen our local press. While it is true that the digital revolution has literally brought information to the palms of Americans' hands, there is no substitute for having news reported on and produced by the very people who live within those communities with a primary understanding of the issues on the ground. I am therefore very pleased to join in celebrating, along with my constituents in the South Bay, this historic moment for the Los Angeles News Group. With this honor, the Daily Breeze has truly elevated its standing among the nation's most respected local publications." Not only did the Daily Breeze win the Pulitzer, they were also awarded the Scripps Howard National Journalism Award for community journalism, and the National Headliner Award for Investigative Reporting. As one of nine daily newspapers for the Los Angeles News Group, it is the first Pulitzer Prize for the organization. ##
04.16.2015	Congresswoman Waters Urges Action to Stop the Slaughter of Civilians by Boko Haram April 16, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, urged aggressive efforts to combat the terrorist group Boko Haram in Nigeria. She made her comments yesterday on the Floor of the House of Representatives during a series of "special order" speeches to mark the one-year anniversary of the kidnapping of 276 Nigerian schoolgirls by Boko Haram. Her remarks follow: A year and a day ago today, 276 innocent Nigerian schoolgirls were tragically taken away from their boarding school and their family. One year later, more than 200 of these girls are still missing, and Boko Haram continues to prey on the Nigerian people. The kidnapping of these schoolgirls is just one example of the appalling acts of terror committed by this group, who, according to the Human Rights Watch, have killed more than 2,000 people and forced 800,000 children to be displaced from their homes. We simply must do more to combat their efforts. I commend President Obama for publicly expressing his willingness to assist Nigeria in its efforts to dismantle this group. Additionally, I encourage the incoming President of Nigeria, President Buhari, to remain committed to his pledge to implement an aggressive effort to combat Boko Haram and to protect his citizens. I hope, with the anniversary of these attacks upon us, we are all re-galvanized to do what we can to bring back our girls and protect other innocent citizens from any future attacks. ###
04.15.2015	Congresswoman Waters Pleased with "Long Overdue" Department of Education Actions Against Corinthian Colleges April 14, 2015 Washington, DC - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) expressed her support for a series of penalties imposed on Corinthian Colleges, Inc. by the Department of Education, including an enrollment freeze on some of its campuses, $30 million in fines, and the suspension of federal funding for two of its California schools. Waters released the following statement: "I am very pleased with the actions taken by the Department of Education today against a predatory actor in higher education. Corinthian Colleges has long shown an unwillingness to play by the rules or to keep its promises to students. This is why I have repeatedly urged the Department to hold them accountable. And while today's penalties are long overdue, they mark the beginning of the end for an institution that has caused serious harm to some of our most vulnerable citizens. I look forward to working with the Secretary and students to provide debt relief students deserve." Since her time as a California Assemblywoman, Congresswoman Waters has fought to hold predatory for-profit colleges accountable to students and taxpayers. As a newly elected Member of Congress, she fought against waste and abuse of taxpayer dollars in the for-profit postsecondary education industry by limiting the amount of federal funding they could receive as profit. This past July, she urged the Department of Education to respond to the Corinthian sales and closures by allowing all students an unqualified ability to withdraw and receive refunds. When the sale of 56 Corinthian schools to the Educational Credit Management Corporation (ECMC) was first announced, she requested that the Department condition its approval of the transaction on the prohibition of mandatory arbitration clauses and class action waivers from being included in future students' enrollment agreements. She also insisted that any Department revenue from the sale be used exclusively to provide relief to Corinthian students. Most recently, she became the first Member of Congress to endorse the ‘Corinthian 100' in their Debt Strike. ###
04.06.2015	Congresswoman Waters Condemns al-Shabab Attack at Kenyan University Washington, DC- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement in response to the mass shooting perpetrated by al-Shabab militants at Garissa University College in northeastern Kenya: "I stand with the Obama Administration and the people of Kenya in condemning the horrific terrorist attack and massacre of students at Garissa University College. Al-Shabab's raid and merciless slaughter of students was not just an attack on the university, but an attack on Kenya's very future. While media reports have totaled the deaths at 148, the actual toll and devastation in that community may never be quantified. In an instant, parents lost their children, and dozens of young people were robbed of their bright futures and the contributions they would have made to Kenya and the world. I applaud the Obama Administration and the Kenyan government's commitment to cutting this evil at the root. Such unspeakable acts of violence must be met with a swift response to ensure the security of Garissa's students and faculty. I am heartened to know that this tragedy has not shaken Kenya's resolve and that both Muslims and Christians have denounced al-Shabab's attacks and remain committed to preserving Kenya's unity. My thoughts and prayers are with Kenya and I pray that peace finds the victims' families during this difficult time. The United States mourns the loss of any nation's children as we mourn our own and stand committed in our support for Kenya and its people." #
04.01.2015	Congresswoman Waters Commemorates Minority Health Month April 1, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement in recognition of Minority Health Month: "This April, as we commemorate Minority Health Month, we have an opportunity to raise awareness of the health disparities that exist for racial and ethnic minorities. While we face numerous issues, none is more important than the health of the people we serve. Studies continue to show that race and ethnicity correlate with persistent, and often increasing, health disparities in the United States. Historically, this has been caused by a lack of access to health care, health insurance and health providers. Laws like the Affordable Care Act have opened up avenues of access for millions of Americans while simultaneously working to close the gap. Nevertheless, race and other social factors including one's education, economic stability and neighborhood all affect the quality of one's health. Ultimately, this means that, all too often, minorities experience illness and death more frequently than the U.S. population as a whole. That fact is both alarming and inhumane and deserves urgent attention. That is why, over the years I have focused on doing everything I can to help eliminate the health disparities for all people in this country, including minorities, especially in the areas of HIV/AIDS, cancer and diabetes, diseases that have disproportionately impacted minority communities for decades. In 1998, I started the Minority AIDS Initiative to address the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS on racial and ethnic minorities and have led the fight for robust funding for this program every year since. The initiative has expanded access to HIV/AIDS prevention, screening and treatment in minority communities. But we still have a long ways to go before we can say we have stopped the spread of HIV and enabled all who are infected to receive treatment. Additionally, for the past several years, I have taken this same approach to the fight against diabetes by introducing the Minority Diabetes Initiative Act, which would provide grants to physicians and community?based organizations for diabetes prevention, care, and treatment programs in minority communities. In the past, I have also introduced the Cancer TEST Act which would provide grants for cancer screening, counseling, treatment and prevention programs for minorities and underserved communities. Currently, African American women continue to die from breast cancer at a rate higher than any other ethnic or gender group in the country. The bill would make grants available to community health centers and non-profit organizations that serve minority and underserved populations and would emphasize early detection and provide comprehensive treatment for cancer in its earliest stages, when treatment is most likely to save lives and hopefully prevent the untimely deaths of many of these women in our black community. I have also worked closely with my colleagues to protect, expand and improve health programs that serve people who would otherwise have no access to quality health care. I have fought to prevent cuts to Medicaid and supported the expansion of Community Health Centers, which serve thousands of low-income patients in my district and millions across the United States. While there is still much work to be done in these areas and countless other health issues, I have found that developing legislation and action plans such as these can have a profound effect on increasing the quality and duration of life for minorities, thereby expanding the number of healthy people living in our communities. Essentially, when Congress acts, improvements can be made. I look forward to working this month and for the duration of my time in Congress to eliminate the minority health disparities that needlessly and unjustly jeopardize the quality of life for so many." ###
04.01.2015	Congresswoman Waters Seeks Robust Funding for Domestic HIV/AIDS Prevention and Treatment Programs in Fiscal Year 2016 Leads 66 Members of Congress Seeking Increased Minority AIDS Initiative Funding April 1, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), a congressional leader on HIV/AIDS issues, called for increases in funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs in fiscal year 2016. The proposed increases were included in two letters to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations, which were signed by many of the Congresswoman's congressional colleagues. Congresswoman Waters' first letter requested an appropriation of $610 million in fiscal year 2016 for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was established under Congresswoman Waters' leadership in 1998 to address the disproportionate impact of HIV/AIDS on racial and ethnic minorities. The Minority AIDS Initiative provides funds to community based organizations for HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, screening, and treatment in minority communities. According to the Department of Health and Human Services, the initiative received $437 million in fiscal year 2013 and $425.4 million in fiscal year 2014. The letter, which Congresswoman Waters organized, was signed by a total of 66 Members of Congress. "Racial and ethnic minorities are severely and disproportionately impacted by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States," said Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues in the letter. "All combined, racial and ethnic minorities represent a majority of new HIV infections, people living with HIV/AIDS, and deaths from AIDS." The full text of the letter can be found online here: /sites/waters.house.gov/files/migrated/UploadedFiles/2015_Minority_AIDS_Initiative_03-26-15.pdf Congresswoman Waters was also joined Reps. Bill Pascrell (D-NJ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), and Jim McDermott (D-WA) as a co-leader of a letter urging the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations to increase funding for several domestic HIV/AIDS programs. The letter requests increases in funding for HIV/AIDS care and treatment through the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program, HIV prevention programs, and HIV/AIDS research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This letter was signed by 57 Members of Congress and can be found online here: /sites/waters.house.gov/files/migrated/UploadedFiles/Ryan_White_Letter_FINAL_3.26.15.pdf "I am proud that so many of my colleagues have joined our urgent call for robust funding for HIV/AIDS research, prevention, screening, and treatment," said Congresswoman Waters. "With more than 1.2 million Americans living with HIV, we must do everything we can to care for those who have been infected and stop the spread of this disease." Congresswoman Waters has been a strong advocate for HIV/AIDS response efforts throughout her tenure in Congress. In 1998, she spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative and in subsequent years has continued to advocate for its robust funding. On December 19, 2014, she sent a letter to the President urging him to include robust funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs in his budget request for Fiscal Year 2016. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed that letter. On February 5, 2015, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act of 2015 (H.R. 768) to provide for an effective HIV/AIDS program in federal prisons. The bill now has 31 cosponsors. ###
04.01.2015	Congresswoman Waters Leads 146 Members of Congress Seeking Expansion of TIGER Transportation Funding April 1, 2015 Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) urged expansion of the TIGER program in a letter dated March 23rd to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations. TIGER is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies like Metro in Los Angeles County. Previous TIGER grants helped to finance the construction of Metro's Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor, which will serve the Congresswoman's district. The Congresswoman's letter urges full funding of the President's request for $1.25 billion for TIGER in fiscal year 2016, as part of an expanded TIGER program that provides $7.5 billion over 6 years. TIGER received $500 million in fiscal year 2015. A total of 146 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. The full text of the letter can be seen below and found online here: /sites/waters.house.gov/files/migrated/UploadedFiles/2015_TIGER_Sign-On_03-23-15_FINAL.pdf Dear Chairman Diaz-Balart and Ranking Member Price: We write to request that you fully fund the President's request for $1.25 billion for the TIGER program in the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development (T-HUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2016. TIGER – formally known as Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery – is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies. The TIGER program funds innovative projects that will have a significant impact on the nation, a region, or a metropolitan area. TIGER projects are required to deliver benefits in five critical national objectives, including safety, economic competitiveness, state of good repair, livability, and environmental sustainability. Investment in transportation infrastructure is essential for economic growth. The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) evaluated the condition of America's public infrastructure in 2013 and gave our country a grade of "D+". ASCE estimates that we will need to invest $3.6 trillion by 2020 in order to improve our nation's infrastructure. Furthermore, investment in infrastructure creates jobs for American workers tasked with building and repairing our nation's highways, railways, ports, and mass transit. The President requested $1.25 billion for TIGER in FY 2016, as part of an expanded TIGER program that provides $7.5 billion over 6 years. This expanded TIGER program will create jobs, encourage innovation, and modernize transportation infrastructure for the 21st century. We also request that the T-HUD bill not include any language restricting the types of projects that can qualify for TIGER. Last year, the House version of the FY 2015 T-HUD bill included restrictive language that would have prohibited certain types of transportation projects – such as mass transit – from receiving TIGER funding. In order to address the tremendous need for infrastructure across our nation and make certain that all communities benefit, it is important that all types of transportation projects are eligible to receive TIGER funding. We therefore urge you to provide full funding of the President's request for $1.25 billion for TIGER grants in FY 2016 without restrictive language. We appreciate your attention to our concerns. ###
03.18.2015	Waters Leads Crusade to Close Nation's Widening Wealth Gap Senior Democrat Challenges Congress to Tackle National Crisis Head on with Resolution to Address Wealth Gap WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of Financial Services Committee, introduced the "Wealth Gap Resolution" to address the nation's widening wealth disparities and their crippling effects on working class families and communities of color. Wealth is the difference between sending your children to college or not," said Congresswoman Waters. "It's the difference between retiring with a comfortable nest egg or relying on Social Security. And it's the difference between starting your own business or working at a low-paying job. So when we talk about the wealth gap and economic equality, we're not just talking about numbers. We're not just talking about not having as much as the other guy. We're talking about pulling families out of poverty, keeping them out of poverty, and ensuring that their children and their grandchildren never fall back into poverty again." "President Barack Obama has already recognized inequality as the ‘defining challenge of our time,'" said Congresswoman Waters. "Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle have acknowledged just how harmful inequality and the wealth gap are for many middle class families. The time is now to meet words with actions. We have a moral obligation to address this crisis with substantive solutions." The Wealth Gap Resolution already has over 50 co-sponsors including Members from the Congressional Progressive Caucus, Congressional Black Caucus, Congressional Hispanic Caucus, Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus and several members of the Financial Services Committee. For the duration of her career, Congresswoman Waters has been outspoken on the widening wealth gap and its debilitating consequences and will continue this fight in the 114th Congress. In her role as Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, Congresswoman Waters has brought the issue to the forefront during several of the Committee's hearings. She has explained that although we may be seeing signs of economic growth, "the brutal truth is millions continue to teeter on the brink of poverty and financial collapse." She went on to say that, "Some people in my district are still struggling to recover from the crisis. Systemic inequities distort progress and opportunity for tens of millions of Americans – most especially low and middle-income Americans and communities of color." The "Wealth Gap Resolution" is the first step in resolving this problem by acknowledging that it exists. The Resolution highlights the fact that as a result of the Great Recession, the middle class and people of color have lost substantial amounts of their wealth, limiting their ability to build a savings, start a business, plan for emergencies, withstand another financial crisis, pay for their retirement, afford their children's college education or simply manage everyday expenses. The "Wealth Gap Resolution" also acknowledges the racial and ethnic components of the wealth gap that are often overlooked. The median wealth of white households is 20 times that of Black household and 18 times that of Latino households. Additionally, White households have $100,000 more in liquid retirement savings than both African-American and Latino households. Such disparity leaves communities of color with no conceivable path to ensure their families don't fall victim to intergenerational poverty. To these populations, wealth is principally derived from homeownership, an idea often hailed as the quintessential American Dream. But after finding themselves on the receiving end of decades of predatory lending and other discriminatory practices, the 2008 financial crisis sent these families' wealth – and their hopes of obtaining that American Dream – plummeting. Lastly, the Resolution concludes that the wealth gap is a by-product of public policy choices by lawmakers and makes clear that solutions addressing the wealth gap must involve legislative changes. As the Congresswoman has explained, the record level wealth gap isn't accidental." Instead, the inequality we are experiencing now is a result of policy decisions that favored the upper class. Now, is the time to return the focus of this Congress on the middle class and implement policies that will return this country on a sustainable economic path. ###
03.17.2015	Leading Democratic Lawmakers Condemn GOP Letter to Iran Waters leads coalition expressing "concern and disappointment" with Senators' interference in international negotiations WASHINGTON – Yesterday, five leading Democratic lawmakers publically condemned the actions of 47 Republican Senators for taking foreign policy into their own hands by intervening in ongoing nuclear proliferation talks between the United States and the Iranian government. In a letter to Senate Majority leader Mitch McConnell, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, was joined by Reps. Steve Cohen (D-TN), John Conyers (D-MI), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Keith Ellison (D-MN), in expressing their "immense concern and profound disappointment" with Senator Tom Cotton's (R-AR) letter to Iranian leadership, which was signed by 46 other Republican Senators, including the Majority Leader himself. Senator Cotton's letter has drawn bipartisan and international criticism as a clear and unabashed attempt to undermine President Obama's foreign policy. Several Republican Senators, including Senator Bob Corker (R-TN), Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, refused to sign onto the letter. Meanwhile, German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier described the Republican letter as "not helpful." "Senator Cotton's letter represents yet another example of Congressional Republicans' penchant for political theatre over serious governing," said Rep. Maxine Waters. "I was appalled to learn that a majority of Senate Republicans signed onto the letter, including the Majority Leader. This letter is nothing more than a political stunt, and these Senators should be ashamed of this blatant attempt to sabotage American foreign policy. For more than two centuries, politics has stopped at our nation's shores. I'm saddened Republicans have abandoned that philosophy." The Representatives reiterated their commitment to stopping Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons and expressed disappointment in the Republicans' attempt to damage a potential international agreement that could prevent Iran from obtaining such weapons and make the United States and our allies safer. The full text of the letter can be seen below and found online here: /sites/waters.house.gov/files/migrated/UploadedFiles/Response_to_47_Senators_letter_to_Iran.pdf March 16, 2015 Dear Senator McConnell: We write to you and Members of the Senate Republican Leadership with immense concern and profound disappointment in yet another action that appears politically motivated to subvert the Obama Administration's international diplomacy. Senator Tom Cotton's effort to undermine the credibility of our ongoing negotiations with Iran and United States allies not only disrespects the office of the President, but it diminishes confidence among our global allies in the United States' capacity to enter into binding commitments with other nations and promote international peace and stability. We are further disheartened to know that 47 Republican Senators joined in this partisan ploy by signing onto the letter. As legislators who swore an oath to protect the United States, we cannot afford to play politics with the security of our nation and allies. Senator Cotton's letter was a disservice to his constituents and disgraces the institution in which he serves. We wholeheartedly agree with Vice President Biden's sentiment that the letter to Iranian leadership is "beneath the dignity" of the U.S. Senate. A majority of the Senate Republicans signed a document that is nothing more than a shortsighted attempt to undermine President Obama's meaningful and important steps towards stabilizing the region and halting nuclear weapons development in Iran. Furthermore, executive agreements, such as the agreement pursued by the current Administration with Iran, are a well-established tool used by countless presidents, both Republican and Democratic, to carry out international diplomacy with many nations, including Iran. Historical agreements like the Nuclear Suppliers Group Agreement under President Ford (1975), the Australia Group under President Reagan (1985), and the Proliferation Security Initiative under President Bush (2003) highlight how the President's power to negotiate executive agreements can prevent the proliferation of nuclear and biological weapons. Negotiators of these agreements were not subjected to Congressional attempts to obstruct them by introducing a resolution of disapproval or up-or-down vote, or by sending a warning letter incentivizing parties to walk away from the negotiating table. While President Obama is negotiating a peaceful solution to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear weapon and protect our closest allies around the world, you and your colleagues in the Senate have done little more than exacerbate partisan divisions. We stand with President Obama and Secretary of State John Kerry in denouncing this letter as an unprecedented breach of protocol and a violation of the basic principles of American foreign policy. Partisan politics must stop at our nation's shores. Even our allies in Europe have labeled the Republican letter counterproductive. Additionally, the threats made by Senator Cotton and his colleagues could have significant consequences for our nation's diplomatic credibility. Retreating on an executive agreement once it has been reached would jeopardize our nation's ability to ensure that previous agreements stand, while also substantially crippling future endeavors. In the same vein, the Senators' actions implicitly condone countries, allies and foes, withdrawing from any agreement aimed at ensuring U.S. national security when political differences arise within their countries or their administrations change. It is unfortunate that Senate Republicans have decided to sabotage United States foreign policy despite the fact that we all share the same goal – preventing a nuclear Iran. President Obama has been abundantly clear that the administration and our international allies will not allow Iran to acquire nuclear weapons and technology. Securing our nation's safety and the protection of our allies has always been and will always be our top priority. It is only through bipartisan and united efforts, built upon trust, that we can ensure the security of the United States. ###
03.04.2015	Waters Demands Court Access for Students at Recently Bought Corinthian Schools Waters Announces Intent to Introduce Legislation Prohibiting Restrictions on Court Access in Enrollment Agreements Washington, D.C. – In a letter sent to Under Secretary Ted Mitchell at the U.S. Department of Education and to David Hawn, President & CEO of the Educational Credit Management Corporation (ECMC), Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) Ranking Member of Financial Services Committee, demanded the withhold of federal funding from ECMC unless students enrolling at recently bought Corinthian Colleges, Inc. reserve the ability to challenge ECMC in court. ECMC agreed to exclude mandatory arbitration clauses from its enrollment agreements but is now seeking approval of clauses that would waive students' right to sue as a class, combine their claims, or demand a jury trial. In order to ensure that other schools don't continue the dangerous practice of restricting students' access to courts, Congresswoman Waters announced plans to introduce legislation prohibiting schools that receive funding from the Department of Education from including such clauses in any agreements they enter into with students The legislation, dubbed the Court Legal Access and Student Support Act (CLASS Act), will be introduced in the coming weeks. The legislation is supported by Fair Arbitration Now, a coalition of 72 student, labor, and public interest organizations. Full text of the letter is below. March 2, 2015 Ted Mitchell Under Secretary U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue SW Washington, DC 20202 David Hawn President and CEO Education Credit Management Corporation 1 Imation Place Building 2 Oakdale, MN 55128 Dear Under Secretary Mitchell and Mr. Hawn: I would first like to commend you both on the sale of the majority of Corinthian schools to the Education Credit Management Company's (ECMC) newly formed subsidiary, Zenith Education Group. Specifically, I would thank you for agreeing not to include mandatory arbitration clauses in future enrollment agreements at the sold schools. While I join student advocates in celebrating that prohibition, as I mentioned in my January 12 letter to Under Secretary Mitchell, I am still concerned that students at these schools will remain unable to adequately protect themselves against future abuse. Therefore, I write again to request that the Department of Education withhold final approval of Zenith's eligibility to receive Title IV funds unless their parent company, the Education Credit Management Company (ECMC), agrees to exclude from future enrollment agreements any limitation on the ability of a student to pursue a claim against an institution in court. Specifically, I ask that enrollment agreements at schools recently acquired from Corinthian Colleges, Inc. exclude class action or mass action waivers, or waivers of students' Seventh Amendment right to jury trials. On February 4, ECMC President and CEO David Hawn was quoted by Politico as saying that an individual right to take legal action is sufficient to protect future students from abuse. However, this statement ignores the reality that prohibiting students from taking action as a class will effectively deny them access to courts and to much-needed relief. Class actions serve as a backstop for enforcement of the Civil Rights Act, Americans with Disabilities Act, Age Discrimination in Employment Act, Family and Medical Leave Act, and other landmark laws. They are usually the only effective remedy against wide-scale fraud or wrongful practices harming multiple individual consumers by recognizing that individuals alone often do not have the time or resources to identify, investigate, or prove the existence of such fraudulent practices. However, since the 2011 Supreme Court decision in AT&T v. Concepcion, corporations in all sectors began to erode consumers' ability to seek redress by gradually including mandatory arbitration clauses and class action waivers in their standard-form contracts. Consequently, judges across the nation have been forced to dismiss class claims alleging civil rights, employment law, and consumer protection violations. In the wake of the decision, advocates warned of the harm that these provisions will have on consumer rights. The New York Times criticized the decision as a "dev­astating blow to consumer rights" and a major setback for individuals who lack the resources to challenge big companies. Therefore, in response, Congress has banned the use of arbitration clauses in consumer credit contracts involving service members or their families, as well as in residential mortgage loans and automobile franchise agreements. I believe all consumers should receive these same protections, including and especially our students. There are situations in which a private right of action will not be enough for those harmed to successfully seek redress. Claims involving small amounts, or disputes requiring plaintiffs to prepare costly analyses or reports, as in antitrust actions, will often involve up-front costs greater than or far exceeding potential relief. For ECMC students in particular, the inclusion of class action waivers and similar restrictions in future enrollment agreements hints strongly that the abuses they experienced under Corinthian's management will continue. Many of them were misled into enrolling by manipulated job placement data and the misrepresented validity of uncertified academic programs. In fact, according to the California Attorney General's lawsuit, many Corinthian students were targeted for enrollment precisely because their income was at or near the poverty line. These students, often the heads of single-parent households, are unlikely to have the time, or resources to procure access to legal counsel and pursue their claims individually. If ECMC proceeds with the inclusion of these waivers, students' inability to consolidate their claims or to otherwise share the costs of legal action with others similarly harmed will insulate the schools bought by ECMC from all liability. I find this simply unacceptable in light of these schools' troubled history. We cannot rely solely on oversight agencies to identify every single instance of abuse, especially when it involves $150 billion of student aid the federal government disburses each year to schools such as those acquired by ECMC. Thank you for your consideration and response to my request. I look forward to continuing this conversation and working with you to provide students with the information and support they need. If you have any questions about this matter, please contact me or Eduardo Soto at (202) 225-2201. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress
02.27.2015	Waters Commends FCC's Decision to Reclassify Broadband WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following a decision by the Federal Communications Commission to reclassify broadband under Title II of the Telecommunications Act, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, commended the FCC and Chairman Tom Wheeler for ensuring the Internet remains open and free. Congresswoman Waters has long advocated for strong net neutrality rules. In 2010, Congresswoman Waters wrote then FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski, applauding the FCC's decision to draft Open Internet rules but later voiced concern that FCC's initial net neutrality rules didn't go far enough to afford protections to populations that disproportionally access the internet on mobile devices. When Comcast Corporation sought to merge with NBC Universal, in numerous procedural filings with the FCC and letters to the Department of Justice (DOJ), she urged both agencies to condition the merger's approval on substantive public interest commitments that would both promote media diversity and prohibit a merged Comcast-NBC from engaging in anticompetitive conduct – including any blocking or otherwise diminishing consumer access to online and cable content owned by Comcast-NBC's competitors. In recent months, Rep. Waters sharpened her focused on the importance of expanding Open Internet rules to cover mobile internet access. Earlier this month, she led a Congressional Letter to FCC Chairman Wheeler, urging the reclassification of mobile broadband, which is the primary means of internet access for 43% of African Americans and 60% of Latinos. Statement as follows: "I commend Chairman Wheeler and the FCC on yesterday's decision to reclassify broadband under Title II of the Telecommunications Act. Reclassification will provide the Commission with unequivocal legal authority to enforce Open Internet rules for both mobile and wireline. The new rules allow all consumers unfettered access to every lawful website on the Internet without fear of slower speeds, blocking, or discrimination. The rules are also good for businesses, as it makes a way for new and young companies to thrive online without being squeezed out through expensive prohibitive fees. "By broadening the rules' application to mobile broadband, the FCC will best protect communities of color who disproportionately rely on mobile broadband for internet access. For many, mobile devices are the primary method to procuring government services or applying for jobs. Without commonsense rules for mobile and wireline broadband, many Americans would have been relegated to a second-class online experience. The Internet has given a voice to the voiceless and allowed marginalized communities to organize around the issues they care about. By reclassifying broadband, the FCC can ensure that the Internet remains a powerful tool for all, regardless of how they get online." ###
02.27.2015	Waters Announces $738,000 for Housing Authority of LA County Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, announced that the Housing Authority of the County of Los Angeles (HACoLA) will receive a $738,000 federal grant to continue employing its "Resident Service Coordinators" who are integral in connecting public housing residents with much-needed supportive services and resident empowerment activities in the community. Even more important, these coordinators link the County's seniors to resources and services that will enable them to live independently and age-in-place. "This program is critically important in helping to link residents with the types of services they need to improve their lives, including education and job training, computer and financial literacy services, and supportive services to help the elderly and disabled live independently and with dignity," said Congresswoman Waters. "The residents of Los Angeles County need this type of support. And I'm working every day in Washington to ensure these types of programs are strengthened, improved and are reaching the people who need them most." Awarded by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the funds have been distributed as part of the Public Housing Resident Opportunities and Self Sufficiency – Service Coordinators (ROSS-SC) program. In 2011, HACoLA received a $720,000 ROSS-SC award, which has been used successfully to hire three Resident Service Coordinators, who have built partnerships with faith-based, business, educational, and community entities. The grant has allowed HACoLA to build capacity, save money and improve the lives of its residents. The funds awarded this week will continue this work, allowing HACoLA staff to build capacity and better coordinate and expand social and human services to all public housing residents. The announcement comes as HUD unveiled nearly $36 million in awards to more than one hundred groups nationally, enabling vulnerable communities to continue or grow ROSS-SC programs. Although this award is a positive, Waters also raised concerns with the reality that federal funding for the Public Housing ROSS program has declined overall in recent years, from $50 million in fiscal year 2012 (FY12) to around $36 million in FY14. Waters added, "Shrinking federal funding for this program means fewer public housing residents will have access to the types of services that ultimately help to increase their earnings and make progress toward economic independence and housing self-sufficiency. It is shortsighted to scale back funding for such an important resource that helps public housing residents achieve positive life outcomes."
02.25.2015	Waters: Security at LAX is Critical for the People of L.A. & the Entire Country Congresswoman Waters Goes to Bat to Protect LAX from Dangerous DHS Shutdown WASHINGTON, D.C. – With only three days until the Department of Homeland Security shuts down, which would force more than 50,000 TSA airport security screeners and tens of thousands of Customs and Border Protection officers to work without pay, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of Financial Services Committee, delivered remarks on the House Floor today warning of the dangers of a DHS shutdown to the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). Remarks as prepared for delivery: "There are only three days until the Department of Homeland Security shuts down, forcing more than 50,000 TSA airport security screeners and tens of thousands of Customs and Border Protection officers to work without pay. Many of these dedicated public servants work at Los Angeles International Airport – LAX – in my congressional district. They screen the passengers and examine the cargo to keep the airport secure. "LAX is the sixth busiest airport in the world and third busiest in the United States. In 2013, LAX served more than 66 million passengers and processed more than 1.9 million tons of cargo with a value of over $91.6 billion. "The security of LAX is critical for the people of Los Angeles and the entire country. And the public servants who work hard every day to keep our airports safe deserve to be paid for the work they do. "Let's fund DHS now!" ###
02.25.2015	Waters Awarded by South County Labor WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, was honored last month by California's South County Labor organization. The group's leadership recognized Congresswoman Waters as a "True Labor Shero" for her steadfast support of working families throughout her public service career. In her prepared acceptance remarks, Congresswoman Waters noted the precipitous rise in economic inequality throughout America and encouraged the labor movement to continue its efforts to reduce inequality and protect the financial security of working class Americans. "The time is now to renew the fight they started," said Congresswoman Waters, referring to legendary labor organizers. "I don't have to recite the data to you because many of you have lived it. You feel what is happening to the average working person in America. The attacks on labor unions over the last half a century have coincided with a drastic increase in income inequality, a widening wealth gap, and the uncertainty of many Americans' financial security. Americans are paying the price for all the attempts to dismantle organized labor. This is precisely why we have to reignite the power of our unions." Congresswoman Waters also thanked the leaders of the South County Labor for the award and their steadfast community involvement, including Joel Barton of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 11; Chester Wasko, of Operating Engineers Local 12; Dick Amemia of the International Association of Machinists & Aerospace Workers; Dawn Brawnsema of the California Teachers Association; and Richard Alonzo of UAW 148. "I also want to commend you on your outreach to our young people," said Congresswoman Waters. "I know South County Labor is actively teaching students from our local schools about the role labor unions play in providing equal opportunities. I can't say enough how incredibly valuable this outreach is to the next generation. Many young people don't know the history of labor – they simply take it for granted and believe that things have always been the way they are now. But certainly, we know that every step forward was achieved with a fight. This history ought to be imbued in our future generation." Congresswoman Waters has held office in the state of California since 1976, when she was first elected as a State Assembly member. Rep. Waters was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1990 and has served 13 consecutive terms. She has chaired the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and served as Chief Deputy Whip of the House. In 2012, Rep. Maxine Waters was elected Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, becoming the first woman and African American of either party to serve as the senior member of the committee that oversees the entire financial services industry, including the banking sector, the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. ###
02.25.2015	Waters Applauds President Obama's Veto of Keystone XL Pipeline Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today, applauding President Obama's veto of the Keystone XL Pipeline Act: "I am pleased that the President swiftly vetoed legislation that would have authorized the building of the Keystone XL pipeline. The legislation would have bypassed the State Department's exclusive longstanding authority to determine whether cross-border pipelines such as Keystone serve the national interest. The bill would also have effectively exempted the Keystone pipeline from all federal permitting requirements, creating a special exemption unavailable to other construction projects. Those that supported Keystone argued that the pipeline is necessary because it would create jobs. I would remind them that rather than relying on job creation with projects like the Keystone pipeline that would be detrimental to our health and environment and only create a very limited number of jobs, tax payer dollars would be well spent on investments in our nation's infrastructure that would not only create jobs but also bring our ports, bridges, and railways into the 21st century." ###
02.19.2015	Waters Statement on Exxon Mobil Refinery Explosion in Torrance WASHINGTON, D.C. – In the wake of the explosion and fire that rived a gasoline processing unit at the Exxon Mobil refinery in Torrance, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Torrance representative, released the following statement today: "My sympathies are with the four injured contractors and all of the workers that were affected by yesterday's refinery explosion in Torrance, as well as the residents of the surrounding community and their families. I care deeply about the safety of workers and neighbors of the Exxon Mobil refinery and remain concerned for the physical and mental recovery of every person affected by such a traumatic experience. "Because so many families send their loved ones to work in this refinery every day, I remain hopeful that Exxon Mobil will discover the root cause of the explosion and institute safeguards to prevent an explosion from reoccurring. Though I am relieved to learn all injuries were minor, this accident could have easily ended more tragically. "I will follow upcoming investigations to determine the cause of the explosion and work closely with local agencies and companies to prevent such a devastating event from happening again. As always, my office is available to assist in any capacity in order to help the residents of Torrance and all of those affected as they heal from this frightening experience." ###
02.12.2015	Waters Urges Robust Funding for Alzheimer's Research and Patient Support Programs WASHINGTON, D.C. – During a House Floor "Special Order Hour" on Alzheimer's disease Tuesday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, called for robust funding of Alzheimer's research and patient support programs. During the hour organized by Rep. John Garamendi (CA-3), Congresswoman Waters announced her intentions to reintroduce three bills to expand available resources for Alzheimer's research and assist patients, families, and caregivers. Remarks as prepared for delivery: "I thank my colleague from California, Congressman John Garamendi, for the time, and I commend him for organizing this evening's Special Order Hour on Alzheimer's Disease. "As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, I know how devastating this disease can be for patients, families, and caregivers. The Task Force works on a bipartisan basis to increase awareness of Alzheimer's, strengthen the federal response to the disease, and provide assistance to Alzheimer's patients and their caregivers. I am proud to lead the Task Force along with my returning Co-Chair, Congressman Chris Smith, and incoming Co-Chairs Michael Burgess and Chaka Fattah. "Alzheimer's is a tragic disease affecting millions of Americans, and it has reached crisis proportions. There is no effective treatment, no means of prevention, nor even a method for slowing the progression of the disease. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), five million Americans were living with Alzheimer's disease in 2013. This number is expected to almost triple to 14 million by the year 2050. "The costs associated with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia are also growing at an unsustainable rate. A recent RAND study of adults ages 70 and older found that the total economic cost of dementia in 2010 was estimated to be $109 billion for direct care alone. That is higher than the cost of both heart disease and cancer. Furthermore, when the cost of informal care is included, the total cost rises to between $159 billion and $215 billion. "We must act now to change the trajectory of this disease! The bipartisan supported National Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease calls for a cure or an effective treatment for Alzheimer's by the year 2025. Reaching this goal will require a significant increase in federal funding for Alzheimer's research. "Last December, I joined together with Task Force Co-Chair Congressman Chris Smith to call for a $200 million increase in funding for Alzheimer's research in the President's budget for fiscal year 2016. However, while the President's budget did recognize the importance of Alzheimer's research, it only increased funding by $51 million. This year, I plan to work with my colleagues on the Task Force to make certain Congress appropriates robust funding for Alzheimer's research to meet the urgent need. "I also plan to reintroduce three bills to expand the available resources for Alzheimer's research and assist patients, families, and caregivers. "First, I will reintroduce the Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act. This bill will authorize grants to public and nonprofit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of Alzheimer's patients. With the majority of Alzheimer's patients living at home, under the care of family and friends, it is important that we ensure these caregivers have access to the training and resources needed to provide proper care. "Second, I will reintroduce legislation to reauthorize and improve the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, a small but effective Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement agencies quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away from their homes and safely reunite them with their families. This program is a valuable resource for first responders. More importantly, it protects vulnerable Alzheimer's patients and brings peace of mind to their families. "Several years ago, I offered an amendment to continue funding for this program after a congressional committee had proposed to eliminate the program in Fiscal Year 2008. The program received $1 million for that year. The following year, I called for and received $2 million for this important program. Since then, I have made sure this program receives funding every year. However, I am still not happy with the amount of funding. We need to do more to make sure that we get more money for this essential program because it is desperately needed. "Finally, I will reintroduce legislation to require the U.S. Postal Service to issue and sell a semi-postal stamp, with the proceeds helping to fund Alzheimer's research at the National Institutes of Health. This would encourage concerned individuals to get involved and contribute to Alzheimer's research efforts, just as many have done in the case of the popular and successful Breast Cancer Research Semipostal Stamp. "Our nation is at a critical crossroads. The situation requires decisive action to search for a cure and protect the millions of Americans currently living with Alzheimer's disease. Together, we must take every possible action to improve treatments for Alzheimer's patients, support caregivers, and invest in research to find a cure for this dreadful disease. "Once again, I want to thank John Garamendi, my colleague from California, whom I have worked with for many, many years, for again organizing yet another night's Special Order." ###
02.11.2015	Waters Remarks on Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act House Passes Bill Named in Honor of Transportation Security Officer Killed in the Line of Duty at LAX WASHINGTON, D.C. – In remarks on the House Floor yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Ranking Member of Financial Services Committee, urged her colleagues to support H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act of 2015. This bipartisan bill would require the Department of Homeland Security to verify all airports have appropriate plans to respond to security incidents. The bill was originally introduced last year in response to the tragic November 1, 2013, shooting incident at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) in Rep. Waters' congressional district. The bill passed the House on a vote of 411 to 1. Remarks as prepared for delivery: "I rise to support H.R. 720, the Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act of 2015. I would like to thank Congressman John Katko, the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security of the House Committee on Homeland Security, for reintroducing this bill. I was proud to join him as an original cosponsor. I also thank Homeland Security Chairman Michael McCaul, Ranking Member Bennie Thompson, and Subcommittee Ranking Member Kathleen Rice for supporting this bill and bringing it to the Floor for a vote. "This bipartisan bill was originally introduced last year in response to the horrific November 1, 2013, shooting incident at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) in my congressional district. The bill is named in honor of Gerardo Hernandez, the Transportation Security Officer (TSO) who was killed in the line of duty on that tragic day. As we debate this bill, we offer our deepest condolences to the family of Gerardo Hernandez, and we honor all of the TSO's, police officers, and other first responders who risked their lives to stabilize the situation and protect the public during that terrible incident. "Following the LAX shooting incident, Congress conducted several hearings on the incident, including a field hearing in my district on March 28, 2014. These hearings revealed serious security lapses, which interfered with response efforts, such as emergency phones and panic buttons that did not work properly, problems in coordination between various police and fire departments, and incompatible radio systems. These security failures are unacceptable. "The Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act requires the Department of Homeland Security to conduct outreach to airports to verify that they have working plans to respond to security incidents, including active shooter incidents, acts of terrorism, and incidents that target passenger-screening checkpoints like the one where Officer Hernandez was killed. "It is imperative that major airports like LAX have state-of-the-art emergency response systems. The safety and security of our nation's airports and all of the workers and travelers who pass through them is of paramount importance. "I urge my colleagues to support this bill and send it to the President's desk." ###
02.11.2015	Waters Commemorates 25th Anniversary of Nelson Mandela's Release from Prison WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today, commemorating the 25th Anniversary of Nelson Mandela's release from Victor Verster Prison in South Africa. "It's hard to believe it has been exactly 25 years since Nelson Mandela was released from his nearly three decade prison sentence to become the founding father of democracy in South Africa. I am heartened whenever the nation reflects on Nelson Mandela's legacy, and I continue to mourn the passing of my dear friend and legendary icon. "Few leaders can measure up to the cultural significance of our beloved Nelson Mandela. In 1994 he became one of the most influential global leaders of the last 100 years when he captivated the world's attention by becoming the first black President of South Africa. Nelson entrenched his legacy and became a transcending figure when he chose to forgive his transgressors and directly take on the tough tasks of dismantling Apartheid's legacy and healing a damaged nation through racial reconciliation. "For many years to come Mandela will remain an inspiration to millions of people in South Africa and the world, as new leaders will emerge to follow in his giant footsteps. I keep in my office a framed copy of the 1994 South African presidential ballot; it serves as a daily reminder of the power of perseverance. When I reflect on my own career in public service, President Mandela's memory is ever present and continually reminds me to fight for justice on behalf of all people of all races." Congresswoman Maxine Waters had the distinct honor and privilege to know and call Nelson Mandela friend. In 1990, Congresswoman Waters chaired the welcome committee for the Los Angeles stop on his eight-city U.S. tour and helped organize a concert and rally attended by 90,000 people. In 1991 she traveled to Durban to attend the first ANC conference since Mandela's release from prison. In 1994 she traveled with the official American delegation to attend the inauguration of Nelson Mandela as President of the Republic of South Africa, and in 1998 she welcomed Mandela to the United States to receive the Congressional Gold Medal. For Mandela's 95th birthday, Congresswoman Waters led the Congressional Black Caucus and Members of Congress in organizing a bipartisan celebration of his life and legacy. The hour-long event filled Emancipation Hall to capacity and included most of the congressional leadership, including House Speaker John Boehner (R-OH), Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-NV) and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY). These leaders were joined by a large group of civil rights leaders, members of the African Diplomatic Corps and the U.S. Ambassador to South Africa. Upon Mandela's death, Rep. Waters traveled to South African to attend his memorial service. As a California State Assemblywoman, Rep. Waters was responsible for A.B. 134, legislation that enabled California to divest $12 billion in state pension funds tied to the Apartheid regime in South Africa. She was also the Los Angeles Chair of the Free South Africa Movement. In 2008, Waters received the Republic of South Africa's "Order of the Companions of O.R. Tambo Silver Award", for "dedicating her life to the upliftment" of the poor and her outstanding contribution to the struggle against Apartheid and the attainment of a democratic, non-racial and a non-sexist South Africa. ###
02.06.2015	In Honor of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, Waters Reintroduces the Stop AIDS in Prison Act WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act yesterday in honor of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, which will be celebrated tomorrow, February 7th. The bill is now H.R. 768 and has 23 original cosponsors. "National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day is a day to remember that African Americans have been severely and disproportionately impacted by HIV and AIDS; blacks have the highest rate of new HIV infections and the highest death rate due to AIDS," said Congresswoman Waters. "National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day is also a day to remember that we need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society – that includes our nation's prisons." African Americans comprise a disproportionate share of the country's incarcerated population. Compounding this problem, the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons is 2.5 times higher than the rate in the general population according to the data from the Department of Justice. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act addresses this issue by requiring the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other people in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. In a previous Congress in 2009, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote (H.R. 1429). However, the Senate did not complete action on the bill prior to adjournment. "I have introduced this bill several times over the years, and while it has never made it to the President's desk, it has focused attention on the problem of HIV/AIDS in our nation's prisons," said Congresswoman Waters. "As a result, the President's National HIV/AIDS Strategy, which was released in 2010, requires the Bureau of Prisons to take steps to address the effects of HIV/AIDS within the prison population. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader of congressional efforts to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS among racial and ethnic minorities. In 1998, she worked with members of the Congressional Black Caucus and officials in the Clinton Administration to establish the Minority AIDS Initiative. This initiative provides grants to community-based organizations for HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, testing, and treatment programs serving racial and ethnic minorities. The initiative received an initial appropriation of $156 million in fiscal year 1999. Funding for it now amounts to more than $400 million per year. "I am proud that the Minority AIDS Initiative has strong support in Congress," said Congresswoman Waters. "Last year, I circulated a letter to leaders of the House Appropriations Committee requesting $610 million for the initiative in the coming fiscal year, and 60 Members of Congress signed my letter. While we did not receive a substantial increase in funding, we were successful in protecting this critical program from harmful budget cuts. Because of our efforts, the Minority AIDS Initiative received $425 million in fiscal year 2015 despite the prevailing atmosphere of fiscal austerity." "African Americans and other racial and ethnic minorities continue to be disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS," said Congresswoman Waters. "We must do everything we can to promote HIV awareness and testing among these communities and provide access to care and treatment for those who have been affected." ###
02.03.2015	Waters Statement on the President's Budget Request WASHINGTON, D.C. – Following the release of President Obama's fiscal year 2016 budget request, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, and member of the Democratic Steering & Policy Committee, applauded the President for including a number of important spending increases for HIV/AIDS programs, Alzheimer's research and for the government agencies that are charged with policing Wall Street. She released the following statement. "I am encouraged by the Administration's proposal that would end the devastating sequestration cuts and reignite public investment in a robust public works program that will rebuild our nation's frail infrastructure and produce more jobs. Democrats now have a budget proposal that is not only fiscally responsible but demonstrates our commitment to rebuilding our economy through sustainable growth initiatives and making the critical investments America needs in every sector. "As someone who has spent my career focused on HIV/AIDS issues, I commend President Obama for including robust funding of HIV/AIDS domestic programs as part of the national strategy to reduce HIV incidences by expanding access to treatment, care, and prevention. Last year, I sent a letter to the Administration urging President Obama to increase HIV/AIDS funding in his budget proposal which, as of today, increases total government-wide spending on HIV/AIDS by nearly $1 billion. Furthermore, as the co-chair of Alzheimer's Task Force, I am glad the President's proposal provides a six percent funding increase for research and development to support efforts like the BRAIN initiative, which offer new insights into Alzheimer's disease and provide the critical research resources to develop more effective treatments and ultimately discover a cure. "As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, I'm pleased that President Obama's proposal boosts funding for Wall Street's cops, the Commodities Future Trading Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, ensuring the financial services industry adheres to the rules of the road. This funding is essential to encouraging a strong and stable financial system that is focused on providing economic security for all hardworking Americans. Further, I commend the President for demonstrating a clear commitment to Main Street by advancing a proposed fee to protect America's taxpayers, which makes it more costly for mega-banks to support their financing activities with excessive borrowing. "Notably, President Obama's budget proposal also includes critical funding for programs at the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to provide safe, decent, and affordable housing for millions of low-income Americans. Although President Obama's budget is far from perfect and includes ill-advised proposals to expand both the ‘Rental Assistance' and the ‘Moving to Work' demonstration projects, the increased funding levels for many of HUD's programs will help to house our nation's vulnerable populations, address economic disparities exacerbated by the housing crisis, and expand access and opportunity so that more Americans can experience the benefits of our nation's economy." ###
02.03.2015	Congresswoman Waters Honored by 10th Council District Women's Steering Committee of Los Angeles WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, was honored by the 10th Council District Women's Steering Committee (WSC) at its 40th Annual Installation Luncheon and Gala. The 10th Council District Women's Steering Committee recognized Congresswoman Waters as a "significant individual," who in her former role as Chief of Staff to Councilman David Cunningham, co-founded the 10th Council District Council Women's Steering Committee with Geneva Cox and worked diligently with the organization for 40 years. Through informative workshops, seminars, programs, scholarships, and networking with other women's groups like the Black Women's Forum – of which Congresswoman Waters is the President – the 10th Council District WSC has achieved significant gains on behalf of the African American women. The 10th Council District Women's Steering Committee acknowledged Rep. Waters extensive advocacy on behalf of women, children, and families. For decades, Congresswoman Waters has consistently authored legislation and led initiatives for women and families, including legislation to create child abuse prevention programs, end strip searches of nonviolent offenders, and require health insurance companies to pay for reconstructive surgery following a mastectomy – a procedure once considered cosmetic. Rep. Waters has also consistently supported women candidates running for political office and women appointments to official posts. "For the last 40 years, I have worked closely with the 10th Council District Women's Steering Committee, and I have witnessed firsthand this committee grow from a small group of promising women with potential, to a powerful force and reliable pillar in the Los Angeles community," said Congresswoman Waters. "Because of my historic bond to this organization and my connection to the women, who comprise it, I am eternally grateful for this recognition and I am inspired to continue working on behalf of women, children, and families in Los Angeles and the nation." Congresswoman Waters has held office in the state of California since 1976, when she was first elected as a state Assembly member. Rep. Waters was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1990 and has served 13 consecutive terms. She has chaired the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and served as Chief Deputy Whip of the House. In 2012, Rep. Maxine Waters was elected Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, becoming the first woman and African American of either party to serve as the senior member of the committee that oversees the entire financial services industry, including the banking sector, the Federal Reserve, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. ###
02.03.2015	Waters & Ellison Lead Congressional Letter to FCC on Reclassification of the Internet Letter Calls on FCC to Protect Communities of Color WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, and Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN) led a cohort of Congressional Democrats in a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Tom Wheeler, urging the reclassification of mobile broadband as a common carrier. This move would protect communities of color who disproportionately rely on mobile devices for internet access from blocking, slower speeds and content discrimination. The text of the letter is below. Dear Chairman Wheeler: We write to urge the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to guarantee Net Neutrality by reclassifying broadband under Title II of the Communications Act. Reclassification would provide the Commission with unequivocal legal authority to promulgate Open Internet rules for both mobile and wireline, while allowing exceptions for reasonable network management. This parity will best protect communities of color who disproportionately rely on mobile broadband. As the D.C. Circuit Court ruled inVerizon v. FCC, relying on Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act is not sufficient to protect an Open Internet. The only means of guaranteeing Net Neutrality is to reclassify ISPs as common carriers. While the Internet has spurred small business growth, enriched our children's education, and helped communities to organize, a digital divide persists. Only 64 percent of African American households have adopted broadband services at home. Adoption is even lower in Hispanic households where only slightly more than half (53 percent) have broadband. In contrast, the national average is 70 percent, with broadband in 74 percent of White households. Lack of access to the Internet prevents Americans from finding job opportunities, gaining relevant skills, and signing up for health care coverage. Wireless broadband access via mobile devices has been essential to narrowing this divide. Despite the low adoption rates of broadband at home, 56 percent of African Americans report owning smartphones. The need to protect mobile Internet access is underscored by the 43 percent of African Americans, and 60 percent of Latinos who rely on mobile phones as their primary means of access to the Internet. As mobile devices become a growing gateway to the Internet, we urge the Commission to adopt a common regulatory framework that applies strong network neutrality protections to users of both wireless and wireline networks. Public libraries, where many rely on the use of Internet to do homework, search for jobs, or file taxes, now lend out mobile hotspots to patrons who do not have broadband services at home. Various municipalities and community institutions have utilized mobile hotspots or devices to improve access in their cities. The FCC should preserve access to the entire Internet for all Americans, taking special care to protect the mobile broadband experience, which will preserve an essential opportunity for those who are already underserved. Parity between mobile and wireline broadband will ensure that current and future initiatives to bridge the digital divide will not be undermined or discouraged. Further, strong rules that guarantee an Open Internet are important to minority-owned businesses. An Open Internet lowers barriers to entry and allows businesses of all sizes to compete on a global scale. Major mobile broadband providers have already blocked or hindered popular business tools such as mobile payments, Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services, and streaming video. ISP providers set up tolls and slower lanes. These practices will continue and worsen without decisive action by the Commission. The FCC should adopt strong Open Internet rules to support businesses and foster fair competition regardless of firm size. As the FCC considers the nearly 4 million comments that were submitted regarding Net Neutrality, we urge you to reclassify broadband services under Title II. The Commission has already acknowledged that people in underserved communities are less likely to have access to broadband at home. While mobile is not yet an effective substitute to home broadband access, communities of color have grown increasingly dependent on wireless service and mobile devices to close the digital divide. The FCC should promulgate rules that will ensure equal access for all Americans, regardless of whether they access the Internet in their homes or through mobile devices. The letter was signed by Representatives Rick Nolan (D-MN), John Lewis (D-GA), Janice Hahn (D-CA), Donald S. Beyer, Jr. (D-VA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), Sam Farr (D-CA), Robert C. "Bobby" Scott (D-VA), Beto O'Rourke (D-TX), Zoe Lofgren (D-CA), Tim Ryan (D-OH), Michael M. Honda (D-CA), Niki Tsongas (D-MA), Jerrold Nadler (D-NY), Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), Marcy Kaptur (D-OH), José E. Serrano (D-NY), Betty McCollum (D-MN), Barbara Lee (D-CA), Pete Visclosky (D-VT), Charles B. Rangel (D-NY), Jan Schakowsky (D-IL), John Conyers, Jr. (D-MI), Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), André Carson (D-IN), Louise M. Slaughter (D-NY), Raúl M. Grijalva (D-AZ) and Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX).
01.30.2015	Waters Leads 54 Members Seeking Robust HIV/AIDS Funding in Fiscal Year 2016 Budget December 19, 2014 Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), a congressional leader on HIV/AIDS issues, sent a letter to the President urging him to include robust funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs in his Budget Request for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. The text of the letter follows: We appreciate your strong commitment to addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States, and we urge you to prioritize funding for domestic HIV/AIDS programs as you develop your Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Budget Request. An increase in resources from the federal government is essential to achieving the goals of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy and to move towards an AIDS-free generation. We understand that we are in difficult budgetary times, but we ask that you consider the needs of people living with HIV/AIDS as you work to allocate FY 2016 funding. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there are 50,000 new HIV infections every year in the United States. Racial and ethnic minorities, men who have sex with men, and young people continue to be disproportionately impacted by this dreadful disease. Moreover, of the 1.2 million Americans who were living with HIV in 2011, only 40 percent were receiving medical care and 30 percent had the virus under control. Twenty percent did not even know they were infected. Enhanced investment in HIV/AIDS prevention, care, treatment, and research is essential to reduce the rate of new HIV infections, improve treatment outcomes, reduce hospital and emergency room costs, and provide hope for a cure and/or vaccine to eventually eradicate HIV. Critical coverage completion services such as case management, medical nutrition therapy, substance abuse and mental health services, and treatment adherence services are also crucial to the health of people living with HIV/AIDS. Furthermore, because we now know effective HIV treatment prevents HIV transmission, comprehensive care for people living with HIV/AIDS is vital to our nation's public health and has the potential to dramatically decrease new HIV infections. We urge you to include robust funding in your FY 2016 Budget Request for the following critical programs: The Ryan White Program, while continuing to fund Parts A, B, C, D, and F separately, in order to provide effective treatment, care, and coverage completion services to people living with HIV/AIDS; Prevention and surveillance programs carried out by the CDC, including the Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, the Division of Adolescent and School Health (DASH), the Division of STD Prevention, and the Division of Viral Hepatitis; HIV/AIDS research carried out by the National Institutes of Health (NIH); The Housing Opportunities for People with AIDS (HOPWA) program; The Minority AIDS Initiative, which targets funding to minority communities that have been disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS; and Adolescent Sexual Health Promotion Programs, including the Teen Pregnancy Prevention Initiative and the aforementioned DASH, while providing no funding for abstinence-only-until-marriage programs, which have been proven to be ineffective and harmful for adolescent health. An increased commitment to these programs will ensure that we can make progress towards eliminating new infections while providing life-prolonging care and treatment to people living with HIV/AIDS. In addition, we urge you to include in the Budget Request language to end the ban on the use of federal funds for syringe exchange programs and language that allows the use of local funds for syringe exchange programs in the District of Columbia. Syringe exchange programs are an important tool for reducing the transmission of HIV among injection drug users. We cannot afford to retreat in our battle against HIV and AIDS. Again, we thank you for your continued leadership and support for these critical HIV/AIDS programs, and we look forward to working with you to ensure that they continue to receive strong support in Congress. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Barbara Lee Bill Pascrell, Jr. Raúl M. Grijalva James P. McGovern Jan Schakowsky Jerrold Nadler Corrine Brown Eleanor Holmes Norton Danny K. Davis Bobby L. Rush Elijah E. Cummings Gregory W. Meeks Henry C. "Hank" Johnson David Cicilline Sheila Jackson Lee Nydia Velázquez Lucille Roybal-Allard Carolyn B. Maloney Al Green Yvette D. Clarke Alcee L. Hastings Charles B. Rangel Steve Cohen Luis V. Gutiérrez Judy Chu James R. Langevin Debbie Wasserman Schultz Frederica S. Wilson John Lewis Karen Bass Robin Kelly Michael E. Capuano Juan Vargas Hakeem Jeffries Lois Frankel Michael M. Honda Jim Himes Joyce Beatty Ann McLane Kuster Michelle Lujan Grisham David Scott Joseph Kennedy Julia Brownley Jim McDermott Keith Ellison John C. Conyers, Jr. Madeleine Z. Bordallo Mike Quigley Eliot L. Engel Louise M. Slaughter Marcia L. Fudge Adam B. Schiff David Price ###
01.30.2015	Reps. Smith, Waters Announce Expansion of Alzheimer's Task Force in House Bipartisan caucus welcomes new co-chairs Reps. Burgess, Fattah WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Rep. Chris Smith (R-NJ) and Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), current co-chairs of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, announced today that Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX) and Rep. Chaka Fattah (D-PA) will join them as new co-chairs for the 114th Congress. "I am pleased that Reps. Burgess and Fattah have agreed to bring their vision and expertise to our team," said Rep. Smith, who in 1999 founded the Task Force with then-Rep. Ed Markey. "Alzheimer's is a national epidemic, and more research, better treatments, and support for caregivers must remain a top priority. Both Rep. Burgess and Rep. Fattah have been vocal in raising awareness about this devastating illness, and in offering solutions to help alleviate its impact on American families. Maxine and I are pleased to welcome them to serve in leadership roles on the Task Force." "I am pleased that Reps. Chaka Fattah and Michael Burgess will be joining Rep. Chris Smith and myself as co-chairs of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease," said Rep. Maxine Waters, who has co-chaired the Task Force with Rep. Smith for two years. "I am confident that under our collective leadership, the Task Force will be able to make Alzheimer's and the families affected by it a priority in Congress." The Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease is a bi-partisan, bicameral group of like-minded Members of Congress dedicated to raising awareness of the impact Alzheimer's disease and promoting effective policies in the legislative and executive branches. The organization also seeks to further initiatives designed to help those who currently suffer from this form of dementia, an incurable neurological condition affecting an estimated 5.2 million Americans, as well as support families and caregivers. "It is a privilege to join as a caucus co-chair and work within Congress to advocate for policies, research, and funding that will advance our efforts to fight Alzheimer's disease," said Rep. Fattah, architect of the Fattah Neuroscience Initiative. "Degenerative diseases are a top priority in the neuroscience field and the need for action on Alzheimer's grows by the day as the United States and nations around the world confront its crippling social and economic effects. I thank my fellow co-chairs for their longstanding efforts, and look forward to making more progress on this issue in the 114th Congress." According to the Alzheimer's Association, Alzheimer's is the sixth-leading cause of death in the United States. Alzheimer's currently costs Americans $150 billion annually in Medicare and Medicaid programs alone, with out-of-pocket and other associated costs bringing that number to $214 billion. Rep. Burgess, who was a practicing medical doctor for 30 years prior to entering Congress, said that "as a physician, it is instinctive to want to work on issues that will alleviate pain and suffering for patients. "Alzheimer's disease is one of the most prevalent neurological diseases, and it is also one of the most painful, not just for the patient, but for the family members and caregivers," Rep. Burgess said. "Through the hard work of this Task Force, we will do all we can to mitigate Alzheimer's for the sake of the health of our society, economy and families." Across the United States, over 15 million family members and friends provide an estimated 17 billion hours of unpaid care for individuals with Alzheimer's and other dementias. The economic costs of unpaid care are estimated to be more than $200 billion annually, as more Americans leave their jobs and other obligations to devote time to caregiving. "Alzheimer's disease causes great suffering and extracts too high a toll on our families and loved ones. In the 114th Congress, legislators must work together to reverse the trajectory of this terrible illness by improving outcomes for Alzheimer's patients, providing assistance to their caregivers, and ultimately finding a cure for this disease," said Smith, who also is chairman of the House subcommittee which oversees global health issues and held the first ever congressional hearing examining the global strategies to address Alzheimer's disease, entitled "Global Strategies to Combat the Devastating Health and Economic Impacts of Alzheimer's Disease" in 2011, and a second in 2013. He and Markey co-authored the bipartisan National Alzheimer's Project Act (NAPA) (P.L. 111-375), which requires the creation of an annually-updated strategic National Alzheimer's Plan to fight Alzheimer's and help those with the disease and their families. ###
01.29.2015	Congresswoman Waters Urges President Obama to Take Action to Stop the Slaughter of Civilians by Boko Haram Compares the Situation in Nigeria to the Rwandan Genocide WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to President Obama yesterday urging him to take immediate action to stop the slaughter of civilians in Nigeria by Boko Haram. The text of the letter follows: It is with a great deal of concern for the many serious foreign policy issues that you are currently managing that I gave considerable thought before writing to you about yet another serious crisis taking place in another part of the globe. However, I ultimately concluded that I can no longer remain silent as I witness the carnage, killings and devastation taking place in Nigeria. Unfortunately, the Nigerian government has not demonstrated its ability to manage the challenges facing its armed forces and stop the outrageous terrorist attacks by Boko Haram. I am outraged by Boko Haram's horrific acts of terrorism. Earlier this month, Boko Haram raided and overtook the city of Baga in the Borno region of Nigeria. It has been estimated that at least 150 and potentially 2,000 people were murdered and more than 30,000 people were displaced over several days of violent attacks. In November, Boko Haram mercilessly attacked the central mosque in Kano, northern Nigeria's largest city, killing more than 120 people and wounding almost 400. In April of last year, Boko Haram kidnapped about 270 innocent schoolgirls from their boarding school in Borno. While a few of these girls subsequently escaped, more than 250 are still missing, and their families are desperately hoping for their safe return. These are just a few of the appalling attacks committed by this terrorist group. Boko Haram has targeted schools, churches, mosques, markets, bus stations, banks, government facilities, and other locations. The group has also been known to use women and children as suicide bombers. According to the U.S. State Department, since 2009, more than 900,000 people have been displaced within Nigeria's borders because of Boko Haram, and more than 200,000 people have been forced to flee to the neighboring countries of Cameroon, Niger, and Chad. By some estimates, Boko Haram murdered more than 5,500 people in all of 2014 and more than 9,000 people over the past five years. The failure of the international community to organize an effective response to these attacks reminds me of the genocide in Rwanda, during which up to one million people were murdered over a three-month period while the international community looked the other way. We cannot turn a blind eye and once again allow innocent children, women and men to be ruthlessly kidnapped and slaughtered by Boko Haram. It is imperative that the United States respond to Boko Haram with urgency and resolve. We must do everything within our power to unite the international community and take immediate action to stop the slaughter of civilians by Boko Haram. We cannot turn a blind eye to the tragedy that is unfolding in Nigeria.
01.27.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, welcomed Jamaican Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller at a reception on Capitol Hill hosted by Congresswoman Waters, Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Chairman, Congressman G.K. Butterfield and New York Congresswoman, Yvette Clarke. Congresswoman Yvette Clarke, who is of Jamaican descent, delivered remarks at the reception, which was attended by Mr. David Lipton, First Deputy Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF); Francisco Palmieri, U.S. Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Caribbean and Central America in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs and other members of the Jamaican Delegation, including the Honorable Dr. Stephen Vasciannie, Jamaican Ambassador to the U.S. and; Lorna Johnson, Honorary Consul of the Consulate of Jamaica in Los Angeles. During the reception, Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller thanked Congresswoman Waters and members of the CBC Task Force, including Representatives Charles Rangel, Sheila Jackson Lee, Yvette Clarke, and Gregory Meeks for their vocal advocacy in support of Jamaica, during Jamaica’s negotiations with the IMF. These negotiations culminated in the IMF’s approval of $923.3 million arrangement under the Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for Jamaica on May 1, 2013. “I really want to thank you,” said Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller. “Had it not been for you, we would not be where we are today. We will never forget the Black Caucus and your contribution to the Jamaican economy.” Congresswoman Waters commended Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller for her commitment to the people of Jamaica. “The Prime Minister is profoundly concerned for the people of Jamaica: its businesspeople, workers, children and families,” said Congresswoman Waters. “It was because of her passion that we decided to do everything within our power as Members of Congress to make certain that Jamaica got the assistance that it needed from the IMF.” Congresswoman Waters also congratulated Jamaican officials on the country’s sustained economic growth and job creation that prompted IMF’s Deputy Managing Director Min Zhu to describe the nation’s economic transformation as “miraculous,” during a High Level Caribbean Financial Forum at Montego Bay in October 2014, according to Jamaican news sources. In December, the Executive Board of the IMF completed its sixth review of Jamaica’s economic performance, subsequently approving a $62 million disbursement under the arrangement supported by the EFF. “I applaud Prime Minister Portia Simpson Miller, Finance Minister Peter Phillips, and Governor of the Bank of Jamaica Brian Wynter for their determination to turn around the Jamaican economy,” said Congresswoman Waters. “The unemployment rate in Jamaica decreased to 13.8 percent in July 2014 from 15.4 percent just a year earlier, and due to Jamaica’s significant structural reforms the country’s fiscal performance is predicted to meet all IMF targets.”
01.23.2015	Waters Congratulates LAWA and the City of Inglewood on Reaching Agreement for Residential Sound Insulation WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, congratulated today the Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) and the City of Inglewood on reaching an agreement to release up to $44.3 million in funding for sound insulation efforts in Inglewood. Under the agreement, LAWA will provide additional funding for Inglewood's Residential Sound Insulation Program, which helps to mitigate the impact of noise resulting from aircraft operations at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). "I am very pleased that LAWA and the City of Inglewood have reached this agreement for sound insulation for Inglewood residents," said Congresswoman Waters. "Although Inglewood has previously received sound insulation funds, not all residents were covered and many have been waiting years for upgrades to reduce noise in their homes. The individuals and families that live, work, and attend school near LAX experience airport noise every day from the planes that fly into and out of LAX. These funds are critical for providing relief to Inglewood residents." The funding will allow the City of Inglewood to provide sound insulation for an additional 1,030 homes, including 689 single-family homes and 341 multi-family homes. The sound insulation upgrades could include double-paned windows, solid-core doors, insulation, and other home improvements to reduce interior noise levels. Inglewood has received a total of $400 million in noise mitigation funds since 1985 from LAWA and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The city's Residential Sound Insulation Program administers the grants. Inglewood residents may call their office at (310) 412-5289 to learn more about the program and find out if they qualify. ###
01.23.2015	Congresswoman Waters Commends the President for Calling for End to Embargo on Cuba in SOTU Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued a statement commending President Obama for outlining his new policy towards Cuba and calling for an end to the embargo on Cuba in his January 20th State of the Union (SOTU) address. The new policy towards Cuba was announced by the Administration on December 17, 2014. The Congresswoman's statement follows: "I am extremely pleased that the President outlined his new policy towards Cuba and called for an end to the embargo during his State of the Union address. As a strong supporter of lifting the embargo on Cuba, I have visited the island several times, and I know from personal experience that the embargo on Cuba is counterproductive and has done more harm than good to the cause of freedom in Cuba. As the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus in the 105th Congress, I organized the first of several congressional delegations for CBC members to Cuba. We met with President Fidel Castro, other Cuban officials, the Chief of the U.S. Interests Section, and several dissidents and independent journalists. We also donated more than 400 pounds of medical supplies to the Martin Luther King Center in Havana, which is run by the Baptist Church, for distribution in the community. This CBC delegation, which took place in February of 1999, allowed us to see firsthand how the embargo denies critically needed food and medicine to the Cuban people while simultaneously denying them information about American values and the American way of life. Since that time, CBC members have become leaders on efforts to end the embargo. Several CBC members have developed relationships with officials of the Cuban government and individuals in both Cuba and the United States who support this change in policy. My friend and colleague, Congressman Charles Rangel, has repeatedly introduced legislation ending the embargo. While the President's new policy does not fully lift the embargo, it does move our relationship with Cuba in the right direction. I worked closely with Peter W. Nathan, President of PWN Exhibicon L.L.C., to organize a U.S. Healthcare Exhibition in Havana, Cuba, in January of 2000. Peter Nathan had previously organized trade shows in the People's Republic of China and the former Soviet Union. This trade show was the first such event in Cuba to be licensed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Department of Commerce, and it was attended by almost 100 U.S. companies exhibiting medical equipment and supplies and pharmaceutical products. I personally cut the ribbon at the opening ceremony. During another CBC delegation to Cuba in the year 2000, Cuba offered to provide scholarships to low-income American students to study at the Latin American School of Medicine in Cuba, on the condition that the students agree to practice medicine in underserved communities in the United States. This offer led to the establishment of a scholarship program administered by the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization (IFCO). Having personally visited a major university and a hospital in Cuba, I was excited to learn that disadvantaged American students would have an opportunity to study medicine there. IFCO subsequently organized a series of conferences to recruit students for this program. One such recruitment conference was held at Charles Drew University in Los Angeles, and I was the keynote speaker. There are now 111 U.S. graduates of the program with MD degrees, and 33 of them are currently in residency programs in the United States. Several graduates are in residency at California hospitals, including UCLA and UCLA/Harbor. One graduate, who previously graduated from the Drew Science High School near my congressional district, is now a resident at Contra Costa Regional Medical Center near Sacramento, California. On each of my trips to Cuba, I met with the Chief of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana to discuss the U.S. embargo and its effect on the Cuban people. My travels to Cuba also afforded me the opportunity to visit the Biotechnology Center in Havana. I was impressed by the medical research at this center, and the doctors and scientists there were eager to be able to work with their counterparts in the United States. In addition, I attended museums and cultural performances in Santiago, the center of Afro-Cuban culture in Cuba. Programs like the IFCO medical scholarship program are good foreign policy, and they are consistent with American values. Throughout the Cold War, individual Americans traveled to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. They met with individual citizens, and they talked about life in America. Some attended universities and educational programs, and some met with dissidents. Enabling American students, professionals, businesspeople, religious leaders, and human rights activists to travel freely to Cuba will serve American interests, empower civil society in Cuba, and educate the Cuban people about the American way of life. The President's new policy towards Cuba will meaningfully improve the lives of Cuban citizens and promote our countries' mutual interests by allowing increased trade, facilitating remittances, and expanding opportunities for Americans to travel to this island nation, just 90 miles off our shore. Allowing expanded commercial activity with Cuba will enhance U.S. national security, create opportunities for American businesses and workers, and provide goods and services that will improve the living standards of the Cuban people. While Cuba has an exceptional record of training doctors and providing health care to its people, additional medical supplies and pharmaceutical products can further enhance the Cuban government's demonstrated commitment to quality health care. Moreover, trade in consumer communications equipment and telecommunications services will increase Cubans' access to information and their ability to communicate freely. Finally, facilitating remittances will be especially helpful for Cuban Americans who wish to assist their families in Cuba. As the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, I am especially interested in the new regulations proposed by the Treasury Department to facilitate remittances, allow Americans traveling in Cuba to use credit and debit cards, and open Cuba to trade in financial services. I look forward to reviewing these regulations and discussing them with the Treasury Department. I plan to return to Cuba soon in order to discuss the President's new policy and the proposed regulations with Cuban officials, members of civil society, and representatives of the Cuban people. I urge my colleagues in Congress to head the President's call to end the embargo, and I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues to chart a new course in our nation's relationship with Cuba." ###
01.23.2015	Waters Honored by the YoYo School of Hip Hop, Founded by Grammy-nominated Rapper Yolanda "YoYo" Whitaker WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, was honored by the YoYo School of Hip Hop this weekend during its semi-formal "I Have a Dream" Winter Affair in support of the school's hip hop summer program based in Los Angeles, California and Highland Park, Michigan. The YoYo School of Hip Hop, founded by American Grammy-nominated Rapper Yolanda "YoYo" Whitaker, aims to transform the lives of youth through academic excellence and engagement in the creative arts. Whitaker, who also serves as the organization's Executive Director has been a friend of Rep. Waters since the Congresswoman's initial "Young Gifted and Black" town hall series. Whitaker participated in one of the first forums of Hip Hop artists with Members of Congress on rap music and censorship. "YoYo's career and life is an inspiration to me. She has touched so many lives with her gifts and talents, and I firmly believe she has made a real difference in the lives of the children she has mentored over the years," said Congresswoman Waters. "YoYo shares with me a firm support of our youth pursuing the creative arts and utilizing their talents as a platform to have careers, become entrepreneurs, and impact their communities." Congresswoman Waters has held elected office in the state of California since 1976, when she was first elected as a state Assembly member. Rep. Waters was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1990 and has served 13 consecutive terms. Congresswoman Waters has chaired the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and served as Chief Deputy Whip of the House. In 113th Congress, Maxine Waters was elected as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services becoming the first woman and African American next in line for chairmanship of the committee that oversees the entire financial services industry, including Wall Street, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. ###
01.23.2015	Waters Honored by the City of Inglewood at Volunteer Reception Gala WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of House Financial Services Committee, was honored by the city of Inglewood during its Volunteer Recognition Gala at Loyola Marymount University. The City of Inglewood Parks, Recreation and Library Services Department and Inglewood Police Activities League hosted the gala to honor the work of the city's volunteers. Congresswoman Maxine Waters, who has represented the Inglewood community for over two decades, has been a dependable public figure, responsible for the steady flow of federal funds to Inglewood. These federal funds have initiated infrastructure and transportation projects that have improved the quality of life and produced jobs while also increasing housing for senior citizens and grants for noise mitigations. "Throughout my career, I have been honored by a myriad of organizations both nationally and internationally, but there is no greater feeling than knowing that your own community is appreciative and willing to honor your public service," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am proud of the city of Inglewood, its residents, and the tremendous growth happening within the city under Mayor Butts' vision and the leadership of the city Council. I am confident that many more examples of economic development projects like the fabulous Forum bought by Madison Square Garden are ahead." Congresswoman Waters has held elected office in the state of California since 1976, when she was first elected as a state Assembly member. Rep. Waters was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1990 and has served 13 consecutive terms. Congresswoman Waters has chaired the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) and served as Chief Deputy Whip of the House. In 113th Congress, Maxine Waters was elected as the Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services becoming the first woman and African American next in line for chairmanship of the committee that oversees the entire financial services industry, including Wall Street, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. ###
01.20.2015	Waters Statement Honoring the Legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters released the following statement today in commemoration of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: "Today, we honor the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, the impassioned freedom fighter, who transformed the country and the world with his message of love and his work on behalf of the world's most vulnerable communities. "As we approach the 50th Anniversary of the March from Selma to Montgomery leading to the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, we should rededicate ourselves to the fight for equality that he led so remarkably. And while we have progressed and this generation enjoys unprecedented opportunities, this moment in time also demonstrates that prejudice and racial inequality are not merely relics of this nation's history but current issues that must be addressed with fierce urgency. "Economic inequality remains a barrier to progress; the financial crisis has cemented an already wide racial wealth gap; states are assaulting voting rights; the 2013 Supreme Court case Shelby County v. Holder crippled the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965; and powerful interests are undermining the last tools minorities have to remedy the effects of systemic discrimination. "These injustices remind us why we continue the fight. Lets support the peaceful activism of young advocates who are now embarking on a renewed mission to challenge America to live up to its ideals. By doing this we honor Dr. King's legacy and work toward fulfilling his dream of equality and dignity for people of all races and ethnicities." ###
01.16.2015	Congresswoman Waters Congratulates the Administration for Issuing Regulations Implementing the President's New Policy towards Cuba Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement congratulating the Administration for quickly issuing new regulations following the President's December 17, 2014, announcement of a new policy towards Cuba. Her statement follows: "I am extremely pleased that the President is using his executive authority to issue regulations to implement his new policy towards Cuba. As a strong supporter of lifting the embargo on Cuba, I have visited the island several times, and I know from personal experience that the embargo on Cuba is counterproductive and has done more harm than good to the cause of freedom in Cuba. As the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus in the 105th Congress, I organized the first of several congressional delegations for CBC members to Cuba. We met with President Fidel Castro, other Cuban officials, the Chief of the U.S. Interests Section, and several dissidents and independent journalists. We also donated more than 400 pounds of medical supplies to the Martin Luther King Center in Havana, which is run by the Baptist Church, for distribution in the community. This CBC delegation, which took place in February of 1999, allowed us to see firsthand how the embargo denies critically needed food and medicine to the Cuban people while simultaneously denying them information about American values and the American way of life. Since that time, CBC members have become leaders on efforts to end the embargo. Several CBC members have developed relationships with officials of the Cuban government and individuals in both Cuba and the United States who support this change in policy. My friend and colleague, Congressman Charles Rangel, has repeatedly introduced legislation ending the embargo. While the President's new policy does not fully lift the embargo, it does move our relationship with Cuba in the right direction. I worked closely with Peter W. Nathan, President of PWN Exhibicon L.L.C., to organize a U.S. Healthcare Exhibition in Havana, Cuba, in January of 2000. Peter Nathan had previously organized trade shows in the People's Republic of China and the former Soviet Union. This trade show was the first such event in Cuba to be licensed by the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the U.S. Department of Commerce, and it was attended by almost 100 U.S. companies exhibiting medical equipment and supplies and pharmaceutical products. I personally cut the ribbon at the opening ceremony. During another CBC delegation in the year 2000, Cuba offered to provide scholarships to low-income American students to study at the Latin American School of Medicine in Cuba, on the condition that the students agree to practice medicine in underserved communities in the United States. This offer led to the establishment of a scholarship program administered by the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization (IFCO). Having personally visited a major university and a hospital in Cuba, I was excited to learn that disadvantaged American students would have an opportunity to study medicine there. IFCO subsequently organized a series of conferences to recruit students for this program. One such recruitment conference was held at Charles Drew University in Los Angeles, and I was the keynote speaker. There are now 111 U.S. graduates of the program, and 46 of them are currently in residency or practicing medicine in the United States. On each of my trips to Cuba, I met with the Chief of the U.S. Interests Section in Havana to discuss the U.S. embargo and its effects upon the Cuban people. My travels to Cuba also afforded me the opportunity to visit the Biotechnology Center in Havana. I was impressed by the medical research at this center, and the doctors and scientists there were eager to be able to work with their counterparts in the United States. In addition, I attended museums and cultural performances in Santiago, the center of Afro-Cuban culture in Cuba. Programs like the IFCO medical scholarship program are good foreign policy, and they are consistent with American values. Throughout the Cold War, individual Americans traveled to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. They met with individual citizens, and they talked about life in America. Some attended universities and educational programs, and some met with dissidents. Enabling American students, professionals, businesspeople, religious leaders, and human rights activists to travel freely to Cuba will serve American interests, empower civil society in Cuba, and educate the Cuban people about the American way of life. The new regulations announced by the Administration will meaningfully improve the lives of Cuban citizens and promote our countries' mutual interests by allowing increased trade, facilitating remittances, and expanding opportunities for Americans to travel to this island nation, just 90 miles off our shore. Allowing expanded commercial activity with Cuba will enhance U.S. national security, create opportunities for American businesses and workers, and provide goods and services that will improve the living standards of the Cuban people. While Cuba has an exceptional record of training doctors and providing health care to its people, additional medical supplies and pharmaceutical products can further enhance the Cuban government's demonstrated commitment to quality health care. Moreover, trade in consumer communications equipment and telecommunications services will increase Cubans' access to information and their ability to communicate freely. Finally, facilitating remittances will be especially helpful for Cuban Americans desiring to assist their families in Cuba. As the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, I am especially interested in the new regulations proposed by the Treasury Department to facilitate remittances, allow Americans traveling in Cuba to use credit and debit cards, and open Cuba to trade in financial services. I look forward to reviewing these regulations and discussing them with the Treasury Department. I plan to return to Cuba soon in order to discuss the President's new policy and the proposed regulations with Cuban officials, members of civil society, and representatives of the Cuban people. I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues to chart a new course in our nation's relationship with Cuba." ###
01.13.2015	Waters Statement on the Large Number of Nigerians Slaughtered in Baga by Boko Haram WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued the following statement today on the terrorist attacks in Baga, Borno of Nigeria by terrorist organization Boko Haram. Up to possibly 2,000 civilians were murdered over several days of violent attacks: "At least 150 and potentially 2,000 Nigerian civilians were massacred and more than 30,000 displaced as a result of a takeover of the city of Baga by Boko Haram, representing possibly the deadliest series of attacks the region has ever experienced at the hands of a terrorist organization. This tragedy underscores, now more than ever, that Nigerian authorities and international partners must escalate efforts to reign in the appalling acts of this terrorist group. "I hope in the challenging weeks ahead, this latest atrocity in Nigeria will galvanize the international community, as it has been galvanized in the wake of the terrorist attacks in France, to take swift action and ensure a swift response to protect innocent lives from these extremist groups."
01.12.2015	Waters Statement on the 5th Anniversary of the Haiti Earthquake WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters released a statement today on the fifth anniversary of the 2010 Haiti earthquake. Following the earthquake, Rep. Waters led the efforts in Congress to ensure the cancellation of Haiti's international debts and support free and fair elections. She also worked with her colleagues to address the cholera epidemic and provide oversight of the earthquake recovery funding. "Five years ago today, a devastating earthquake brought Haiti to the brink. With 230,000 people dead and 1.3 million people displaced from their homes, the 2010 earthquake in Haiti culminated into one of world's most costly and deadly natural disasters in recent memory. The 2010 earthquake cost the people of Haiti dearly but it did not break their soul. The perseverance and resolve of Haitians to rebuild their nation in the wake of seemingly insurmountable obstacles is one of the most compelling narratives of our generation. "Though much has been done in the effort to rebuild the country, much more is needed to ensure Haiti has a viable housing sector, a growing economy, a reliable healthcare system and the political stability to bring Haiti back to a better state. As I have done so many times prior, I urge the international community to play a role in rebuilding Haiti. I stand in solidarity with the people of Haiti and remain a vocal advocate in support of the country's economic and political recovery."
01.09.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – On Tuesday, the Root Magazine listed Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-43) as number two on its list of “People to Watch in 2015,” acknowledging her efforts as the Ranking Democrat on the House Committee on Financial Services and for her leadership in “tackling” economic issues important to moderate and middle income Americans. ICYMI: “She moved up as ranking Democrat on the powerful House Financial Services Committee, where, in 2015, she’ll be a gigantic thorn in the side of the majority as it tries to repeal the Wall Street reform law known as Dodd-Frank. In the wake of a recession that destroyed over a quarter of the black middle class, Waters is someone African Americans will need in their corner. She’ll be loudly tackling a number of critical economic issues that we don’t hear enough about.” – The Root See what else the media is saying about Rep. Maxine Waters: Rep. Waters led a Democratic effort to stop Republicans from watering down important rules passed as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Politico: “Democrats stopped the House today from passing a package of 11 proposals that would have revised derivatives rules in the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, delayed restrictions on collateralized loan obligations in the so-called Volcker Rule and eased SEC disclosure requirements… Democratic votes were needed for passage and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi and House Financial Services ranking member Maxine Waters rallied opposition to the bill, citing concerns with the Volcker provision.” CQ Roll Call (Banking & Finance): “The House is voting on it under a suspension of the rules, which allows for expedited consideration of the bill with no opportunity for amendment. Passage would require a two-thirds majority. While many provisions have previously attracted bipartisan support, Democratic critics hope to deny Republicans the two-thirds threshold, in part by arguing that the bill did not receive adequate consideration by lawmakers. ‘The process being used to consider these bills is unfair, lacks transparency, and is a poor way to debate important policy issues,’ Rep. Maxine Waters of California, the top Democrat on the Financial Services Committee, said in a letter to colleagues urging opposition.” Think Advisor: “Democrats defeat eleven-bill package by a vote of 276-146. One of the bills would delay Volcker Rule implementation another two years. House Democrats pulled together Wednesday to defeat a package of bills being considered on the House floor designed to water down the Dodd-Frank Act. The House was set to consider the eleven-bill legislative package, H.R. 37, the Promoting Job Creation and Reducing Small Business Burdens Act, which Rep. Maxine Waters, R-Calif., said was within the purview of the Financial Services Committee, but has been brought to the House floor ‘without regard for due process or the opportunity for robust debate.’” [ Think Advisor, 1.7.2015] Rep. Waters led the fight to oppose the so called “Cromnibus” spending bill that included Republican riders, allowing financial institutions to make risky bets with tax payers’ dollars The Washington Post: “Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), who joined Warren, said there were ‘scores’ of congressional Democrats opposing the bill right because of the banking regulation change. She said that conservative opposition to the bill gives House Democrats some sway. ‘If they are expecting Democratic votes to put this out, then that gives us leverage. And I am hopeful we are able to use that leverage to pull this out’ said Waters, the top-ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Committee.” [The Washington Post, 12.10.2014] New York Times: “As The New York Times reported last year, lawmakers adopted nearly every word of Citigroup’s plan in drafting a bill. The bank’s recommendations are reflected in more than 70 of the 85 lines of that bill. ‘I am disgusted that in a back room deal, some members and lobbyists for the largest banks are trying to undo a seminal component of the Wall Street Reform Act,’ Representative Maxine Waters, the ranking Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, said in a statement on Tuesday. ‘This legislation, which according to the New York Times was primarily authored by lobbyists at Citigroup, would be a huge gift for Wall Street’s largest banks.’” [NYT,12.9.2014] CNN: “California Rep. Maxine Waters, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, tweeted Thursday afternoon that she was ‘rallying Democrats in strong opposition to #CRomnibus to stop the Wall Street giveaways and bank bailouts,’ with a photo of a meeting of nearly a dozen Democratic lawmakers in her office. She wrote a letter to colleagues earlier that day saying ‘if there was ever a time to fight for Democratic values, that time is now.’" [CNN, 12.11.2014] Reuters: “‘I am increasingly optimistic that House Democrats will come together to defeat this effort to protect Wall Street's biggest banks,’ said Representative Maxine Waters, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee. She said many Democrats spoke out against the provision at a meeting Thursday morning. Aides to House Democratic leaders said, however, that they were not actively campaigning to defeat the bill.” [Reuters, 12.11.2014] The Hill: “The top House Democrat on the Financial Services panel says she’s ‘increasingly optimistic’ a spending bill will be blocked unless changes to the Wall Street reform legislation are stripped from the package. ‘I am increasingly optimistic that House Democrats will come together to defeat this effort to protect Wall Street's biggest banks,’ Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), the panel's ranking member, said in a statement. Liberals are up in arms over the Wall Street reform changes included in the $1.1 trillion government-funding package, though it appears many lawmakers are ready to approve the legislation to keep the government open.” [The Hill, 12.11.2014] American Banker: “Rep. Maxine Waters, the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, led the fight in the House to oppose the bill, even in the face of calls by President Obama to vote for it… ‘Rallying Democrats in strong opposition to CRomnibus to stop the Wall Street giveaways and bank bailouts,’ Waters tweeted on Thursday afternoon.” [American Banker, 12.11.2014] Bloomberg: “The Republican-led efforts are likely to face fierce opposition from Democrats such as Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts and Representative Maxine Waters of California, both of whom criticized the agreement on the swaps measure this week. And Republicans, who will hold 54 of the 100 seats in the Senate, will need Democrats on board to advance major bills.” [Bloomberg, 12.12.2014] Rep. Maxine Waters takes down Republican Representative Kevin Yoder’s claim that spurring more risky bets will make banking safer in The Huffington Post: “…many ‘uncleared’ credit default swaps are still washing around the financial system without market scrutiny -- just like the bets that blew up seven years ago. These uncleared swaps can receive taxpayer backing under the provision Yoder supported. Lawmakers who opposed the change dismissed Yoder's defense." One thing he does not do is tell you how it makes it safer," Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), the ranking member on the House Committee on Financial Services who whipped votes against the spending bill in the House, told The Huffington Post. If he believed that people really understood it, I don’t think he would make those kinds of statements." [The Huffington Post, 1.6.2015] Huffington Post: “Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), the top Democrat on the Financial Services Committee and a key architect of the revolt against the omnibus bill, said she launched her own whipping operation and told members not to be intimidated by the White House. ‘We're fighting anybody who is lobbying for this bill,’ she said.” [The Huffington Post, 12.11.2014] Democracy Now: “Speaking ahead of the vote, Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters said undoing critical regulation through a government spending bill must be opposed. Rep. Maxine Waters: ‘Under the cover of 'must pass' legislation, big bank lobbyists are hoping that Congress will allow Wall Street to once again gamble with taxpayer money – by reversing a provision that prohibits banks from using taxpayer-insured funds, bank deposits, to engage in risky derivatives trading activity. … This provision must be stopped. Enough is enough.’" [Democracy Now, 12.14.2014] ###
01.08.2015	Waters Statement on the Terrorist Attack in France WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters released the following statement today on the terrorist attack against the Charlie Hebdo magazine office in Paris, France: "The gross terrorist attack against the Charlie Hebdo magazine's office in Paris, France was a heinous crime perpetuated by individuals seeking to silence free speech and undermine a valuable component of a free and democratic France. France shares with America a commitment to an open democracy, and an independent press is critical to fulfilling our nations' promises of equality, justice, and fairness to all of our citizens. Neither the threat nor the fear of violence will ever deter our nations from fulfilling our democratic ideals. I stand with the people of France as they mourn this tragic loss of lives, and I rest assured that the citizens of France will continue to promote these ideals despite the attempts of evil agencies to undermine those values with violence." ###
01.05.2015	Waters Celebrates the Fighting Spirit of Sports Broadcasting Icon Stuart Scott WASHINGTON, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement on the passing of sports broadcaster Stuart Scott. "Today I join the scores of famous athletes and legions of fans to mourn the death of pioneering broadcasting legend Stuart Scott. Scott's innovative reporting style demonstrated that you can be competent, analytical, and prescient while maintaining a fresh perspective and youthful appeal to sports commentary. Yet Scott's influence doesn't end with his storied career. We all witnessed his fighting spirit as he tackled simultaneously three bouts of cancer, chemotherapy, and mixed martial arts with the same rigor as he raised his two daughters, Taelor and Sydni. In the end, Scott's greatest lesson to us is an instruction on how to live our lives despite the towering obstacles that may lie ahead. It is my sincere hope that Stuart Scott's legacy will live on in the many diverse broadcasters we see today whose paths were paved by Stuart Scott's indomitable spirit and commitment to excellence."
12.17.2014	Congresswoman Waters Welcomes the President's New Course on Cuba Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued a statement congratulating the President for his announcement of historic steps to chart a new course in U.S. relations with Cuba. Her statement follows: "As a long-time advocate of improved relations with Cuba who has traveled to the island several times, I commend the President for initiating discussions with Cuba on the re-establishment of diplomatic relations and for authorizing increased trade, facilitating remittances, and expanding opportunities for Americans to travel to this island nation, just 90 miles off our shore. The United States has for years been supporting an unreasonable policy with regard to Cuba. The embargo is counterproductive and has done more harm than good to the cause of freedom in Cuba, and I fully support President Obama's efforts to move us towards a more rational policy in this area. Allowing expanded commercial activity with Cuba will enhance U.S. national security, create opportunities for American businesses and workers, and provide goods and services that will improve the living standards of the Cuban people. Facilitating trade in consumer communications equipment and telecommunications services will increase Cubans' access to information and their ability to communicate freely. Facilitating remittances will be especially helpful for Cuban Americans desiring to assist their families in Cuba. Expanding opportunities for Americans to travel to Cuba is good foreign policy, and it is consistent with American values. Throughout the Cold War, individual Americans traveled to the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe. They met with individual citizens, and they talked about life in America. Some attended universities and educational programs, and some of them met with dissidents. Enabling American students, professionals, businesspeople, religious leaders, and human rights activists to travel freely to Cuba will serve American interests, empower civil society in Cuba, and educate the Cuban people about the American way of life. I congratulate the President, and I look forward to working with him to chart a new course in our nation's relations with Cuba." ###
12.11.2014	Reps. Maxine Waters, Chris Smith Urge President to Increase Funding for Alzheimer's Research in FY 2016 Budget December 11, 2014 Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), the Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, sent a letter to the President urging him to include an additional $200 million for Alzheimer's research in his Budget Request for Fiscal Year (FY) 2016. The text of the letter follows: "We write to you today as members of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease to request that you include adequate funding to help change the trajectory of Alzheimer's disease in the President's Budget Request for Fiscal Year 2016. Specifically, we urge you to call for an additional $200 million to be allocated to the National Institute of Aging to boost our investment in Alzheimer's research. As you are aware, Alzheimer's is a devastating disease that exacts a tremendous personal and economic toll on the individual, the family and our society. In addition to the human suffering it causes, Alzheimer's cost the United States $214 billion in 2014, including $150 billion in costs to Medicare and Medicaid. That price tag will increase exponentially as the baby boom generation ages, placing our country not only in a public health crisis, but an economic one as well. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that, without new treatments or a cure, Alzheimer's will cost the United States an astonishing $1 trillion by 2050. While Alzheimer's is costing the United States more than $200 billion, we are spending less than three tenths of one percent of that amount—an estimated $566 million in FY 2014—on research to prevent and cure this disease. It is undeniable that Alzheimer's receives funding that is disproportionate to its human and economic toll. Indeed, several similarly deadly diseases receive annual funding of between $2 and $5 billion for research, with some receiving even more. Surely, we can do more for Alzheimer's given the tremendous price of this devastating disease. The Omnibus Appropriations bill for FY 2014 took an important step forward by providing for a $100 million increase at the National Institute of Aging to help boost the commitment to Alzheimer's research. However, the Chairman of the Advisory Council established by the bipartisan 2010 National Alzheimer's Project Act says that we will need to devote $2 billion a year to Alzheimer's research to reach the goal of preventing and effectively treating Alzheimer's disease by 2025. Accordingly, we believe that an increase in resources for Alzheimer's research is both necessary and a smart investment that will lower future government spending. Similar investments in research for other diseases have yielded tremendous results: patients have access to new treatments, and death rates are decreasing. At the same time, mortality due to Alzheimer's is escalating dramatically, and it is unique among the top ten causes of death in that it cannot be prevented, cured or even slowed. That said, there is promising research in the pipeline that holds great hope for Alzheimer's patients and their families. The research community is poised to make important contributions toward the treatment of this disease through clinical trials and by investigating new therapeutic targets if adequate resources are available. For these reasons, we urge you to call for an additional $200 million in Alzheimer's research in the coming fiscal year and work with us to develop a plan to meet our ultimate goal of a $2 billion annual investment within the next five years. We know that you share our commitment to effectively preventing and treating Alzheimer's by 2025 and we look forward to working with you to meet that goal. Thank you for your time and consideration of this request." ###
12.05.2014	VA Honors Waters for Commitment to Women's Veterans WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Department of Veterans' Affairs (VA) has honored Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) for her years of work on behalf of America's women veterans. In a ceremony that took place in Washington, D.C., Waters was honored by VA Secretary Bob McDonald for her work in creating the Center for Women Veterans, a special bureau within the VA that advocates for women veterans by ensuring health care benefits and other programs are effectively meeting women's needs. The event was to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the Center's founding. To mark the occasion, Waters participated in a ceremony with McDonald, Center Director Elisa Basnight, and former directors Irene Trowell-Harris, Joan Furey, and Dr. Susan Mather. "Ranking Member Maxine Waters is the true matriarch of the Center for Women Veterans. It was her work back in 1994 that made the Center a long-overdue reality," said VA Secretary Robert McDonald. "After being elected to Congress, one of my first priorities was to introduce legislation that ensured women veterans were informed of their benefits and receiving appropriate care at the VA. And 20 years later, I am so proud to see how the Center has affected change," said Waters. "By the year 2000, the Center had influenced the VA to provide prenatal and obstetrical care to women veterans. That same year, the VA announced a $3 million dollar investment to lift women veterans out of homelessness, an investment closely followed by Congress enacting legislation to care for children with birth defects born to women veterans of the Vietnam War. The Center has also connected female veterans with public and community service opportunities, while also ensuring the service and contributions of women Veterans and women in the military are properly recognized by our nation and society." Before the Center was created, there was a shocking inequality for women veterans trying to access VA benefits. A 1982 report found women were not receiving proper physical examinations at VA facilities. There was no access to basic gynecological care – a serious problem which contributed to women suffering a cancer rate twice that of women in the general population, with gynecological cancers being the most common. And a shocking 57 percent of female veterans did not even know they were eligible for VA services, benefits, and programs. Acknowledging this problem, in 1993, Waters spearheaded legislation to create a special bureau for women at the VA. That legislation was enacted into law in 1994, creating the Center for Women Veterans to address these problems. As a member of the Veterans' Affairs Committee, Waters fought to ensure that the creation of the Center was included as part of the "Veterans' Benefits Improvements Act of 1994," enacted to provide for veterans of the Persian Gulf War. Waters added, "Twenty years later, the Center is needed more than ever. Women are the fastest growing population within the DOD and VA. And they still face challenges – like a broken grievance system that forces them out of service more often than it holds predators accountable. I believe that in the future, the Center can take a leadership role in ensuring victims of sexual assault are provided access to the important services they need. And we all must act boldly to offer these victims a path to justice, so that they may come forward without fear." Waters received the Honor on Wednesday, November 19. ###
12.04.2014	Reps. Maxine Waters, Chris Smith Seek Increase in Funds for Alzheimer's Research in Final FY 2015 Budget Package December 4, 2014 Washington, D.C. – Last night, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), the Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, sent letters to House Appropriations Committee leaders requesting an increase of at least $100 million in the final Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 budget package for the National Institute on Aging (NIA), in order to provide additional resources for Alzheimer's research. Identical letters were sent to Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers; Appropriations Committee Ranking Member Nita Lowey; Labor, Health and Human Services (HHS) and Education Subcommittee Chairman Jack Kingston; and Labor, HHS and Education Subcommittee Ranking Member Rosa DeLauro. The text of the letter follows: "As you work with your Senate counterparts to assemble a final Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 spending package, and as House Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, we are writing to ask you to consider increasing funding for the National Institute on Aging (NIA). We also ask that you include in any final package the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, HHS & Education's language on Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease in the U.S. is at crisis proportions. As our population ages, the number of persons affected by this brain disorder are expected to triple by 20501. The costs associated with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia are also growing at an unsustainable rate. A recent RAND study of adults ages 70 and older found that the total economic cost of dementia in 2010 was estimated to be $109 billion for direct care — higher than heart disease and cancer — and $159 billion to $215 billion when the cost of informal care is included2. Increasing funding for NIA will provide the Institute with additional resources to meet these challenges head on and enhance our chances of meeting the goals articulated in the bipartisan supported National Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease, which calls for a cure or effective treatment by 2025. In an effort to meet this goal, the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, HHS & Education approved a budget for FY 2015 that calls for an additional $100 million in funding for NIA. NIA, along with other institutes at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), are supporting a number of promising Alzheimer's disease research projects, including cutting-edge "prevention" trials that are studying whether or not the disease can be prevented or slowed substantially by administering treatments earlier in the disease process. Including at least the additional $100 million for the NIA that was recommended by the Subcommittee in the final budget package for FY 2015 will provide vital resources to support meritorious Alzheimer's disease research projects. This action will also demonstrate further resolve in support of our national priority of eradicating this insidious brain disorder. The Subcommittee also included language directing NIH to submit a professional judgment budget for Alzheimer's disease research. As cosponsors of the Alzheimer's Accountability Act (HR 4351), we believe that unfiltered information specifying the resources necessary to meet the goals and objectives laid out in the National Plan would provide Congress with a valuable tool for setting research and service priorities. We understand the challenges you face in finalizing the FY 2015 appropriations package and appreciate your consideration of this request, which will provide hope to the five million Americans living with dementia, their families, and their caregivers." [1] Alzheimer disease in the United States (2010–2050) estimated using the 2010 census, Neurology (March, 2013). 2 Monetary Costs of Dementia in the United States, N. Engl. J. Med. 2013; 368:1326-1334 (April 4, 2013) (www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMsa1204629). ###
12.04.2014	Congresswoman Waters Urges Robust Funding for Alzheimer's Programs in FY 2015 and FY 2016 December 3, 2014 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), the Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, urged leaders of the House Appropriations Committee to increase funding for Alzheimer's research by at least $100 million in Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 and called on the President to include robust funding for Alzheimer's programs in his budget for FY 2016. Her statement was submitted for inclusion in the Congressional Record as part of a "Special Order Hour," organized last night by Rep. John Garamendi (CA-3), who is a member of the Task Force. The Congresswoman's statement follows: "As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, I know how devastating this disease can be on patients, families, and caregivers. The Task Force works on a bipartisan basis to increase awareness of Alzheimer's, strengthen the federal commitment to improving the lives of those affected by the disease, and assist the caregivers who provide their needed support. Alzheimer's disease in the U.S. is at crisis proportions. As our population ages, the number of persons affected by this brain disorder are expected to triple by 2050. The costs associated with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia are also growing at an unsustainable rate. A recent RAND study of adults ages 70 and older found that the total economic cost of dementia in 2010 was estimated to be $109 billion for direct care alone. That is higher than the cost of both heart disease and cancer. Furthermore, the economic cost of dementia rises to $159 billion to $215 billion when the cost of informal care is included. In the U.S., someone develops Alzheimer's every 67 seconds. According to recent data, women have a 1 in 6 estimated lifetime risk of developing the disease at age 65, while the risk for men is nearly 1 in 11. The Alzheimer's Association estimates as many as 16 million Americans over age 65 could suffer from Alzheimer's by 2050. It is now the fifth leading cause of death in my home state of California. Alzheimer's has a devastating impact upon families. Right now nearly 15 million people, mostly family members, provide unpaid care for individuals with Alzheimer's or dementia, a market value of more than $220.2 billion. In California alone, about 1.5 million unpaid caregivers grapple with the tremendous challenges of Alzheimer's disease or dementia every day. Caregivers include spouses, children, and even grandchildren. As compared to caregivers for other diseases, Alzheimer's caregivers disproportionately report being forced to miss work, reduce work hours, quit their jobs, or change jobs due to caregiving demands. They are more likely to experience financial hardship, report health difficulties, experience emotional stress and suffer from sleep disturbance. The bipartisan supported National Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease calls for a cure or an effective treatment for Alzheimer's by 2025. In an effort to meet this goal, the Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education approved a budget for fiscal year 2015 that calls for an additional $100 million in funding for the National Institute on Aging (NIA) to expand Alzheimer's disease research. NIA, along with other institutes at the National Institutes of Health (NIH), are supporting a number of promising Alzheimer's disease research projects, including cutting-edge "prevention" trials that are studying whether or not the disease can be prevented or slowed substantially by administering treatments earlier in the disease process. I am urging the leaders of the House Appropriations Committee to include at least the additional $100 million for the NIA in the final budget package for FY 2015. This modest increase in Alzheimer's research funding will provide vital resources to support meritorious Alzheimer's disease research projects. This action will also demonstrate further resolve in support of our national priority of eradicating this insidious brain disorder. The Senate Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education also included language directing NIH to submit a professional judgment budget for Alzheimer's disease research. As a cosponsor of the Alzheimer's Accountability Act (HR 4351), I believe that unfiltered information specifying the resources necessary to meet the goals and objectives laid out in the National Plan would provide Congress with a valuable tool for setting research and service priorities. I also plan to urge the President to include robust funding for Alzheimer's research and caregiver support services in his fiscal year 2016 budget, which the President will be submitting to Congress early next year. Increased funding for Alzheimer's programs will allow us to meet these challenges head on and enhance our chances of meeting the goals articulated in the National Plan. As we continue to search for a cure, our nation is at a critical crossroads that requires decisive action to assure the safety and welfare of the millions of Americans with Alzheimer's disease and dementia. Together, let us commit to take every possible action to improve treatments for Alzheimer's patients, support caregivers, and invest in research to find a cure for this disease." ###
12.01.2014	Congresswoman Waters Commemorates World AIDS Day Washington, D.C. -- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), a Congressional leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS, issued the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day: "World AIDS Day is a time to reflect on the progress we've made in our fight against HIV/AIDS, show support for people living with the disease, honor those who have died, and recommit ourselves to ending this epidemic once and for all. It's been over 33 years since AIDS was first discovered, yet the AIDS virus continues to infect and kill thousands of Americans and millions of people around the world. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there are 50,000 new HIV infections every year in the United States. Furthermore, of the 1.2 million Americans who are living with HIV/AIDS, only 3 out of 10 have the virus under control. Meanwhile, UNAIDS reports that 35 million people are living with HIV/AIDS worldwide, and 1.5 million people died of AIDS in 2013. In the U.S. Congress, I have fought to make sure the Affordable Care Act enables health coverage for routine HIV testing for all Americans and comprehensive treatment for those who are infected. Now, for the first time, all Americans who are living with HIV/AIDS can purchase affordable health plans without being rejected because of a pre-existing condition. I have also been a leading proponent of legislation to increase research and funding to combat HIV/AIDS and to help those affected by the disease throughout our society. Earlier this year, I circulated a letter in support of additional funding in fiscal year 2015 for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which I developed in 1998 to expand HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs in minority communities, and the letter was signed by 60 Members of Congress. Last year, I reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which requires the federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive plan to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. Finally, I introduced a resolution encouraging primary care physicians to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. Clearly, there is much more work to be done. We must do everything we can to promote widespread HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, and testing and make treatment more accessible and affordable, both domestically and internationally. Let us rededicate ourselves to stopping the spread of this devastating disease, caring for those who are infected, and finding a cure." ###
11.26.2014	Waters Statement on One Year Anniversary of LAX Shooting LOS ANGELES, CA – On the eve of the one-year anniversary of the shooting at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), who represents the district that includes LAX, released the following statement: "On this somber anniversary, my thoughts and prayers remain with the LAX shooting victims, their families and loved ones. Last year's incident at LAX remains a deeply disturbing episode in the airport's history. Further complicating the situation were revelations of security lapses, technical issues, poor communication and an overall substandard emergency response system, which came to light following investigations by Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), and Congress itself. These failures were unacceptable, and exposed systemic problems that LAWA is still working to address. I believe Congress has an obligation to ensure the safety and security of our nation's airports and all of the workers and travelers who pass through them. That is why I am a strong supporter of the Hernandez Airport Security Act, legislation that requires the Department of Homeland Security to verify that airports have working plans to respond to security incidents such as active shooters, acts of terrorism, and the targeting of passenger-screening checkpoints like the one where Officer Hernandez was killed. Although this measure passed the House of Representatives in July, it has not seen consideration in the United States Senate. I'm disappointed with this inaction and I believe it is vital that this measure be enacted into law, to further protect the workers and other citizens that interact with LAX every day. LAX is the third busiest airport in the United States and the sixth busiest in the world. It is nothing short of critical that it have a modern, fully functioning emergency response system. In order to ensure a state-of-the-art emergency response system at LAX and other American airports, the Senate must move immediately to get this measure to the President's desk, so the efforts of LAWA and the TSA are bolstered – and afforded critical federal assistance." The Hernandez Airport Security Act, H.R. 4802, was introduced in response to the shooting and it aims to ensure that domestic airports are properly prepared and equipped to respond to security incidents and terrorist attacks. The bill would require TSA to report to Congress on the overall level of preparedness at airports nationwide, identify best practices that exist across airports and share them with other airport operators. Finally, the bill would require TSA report to Congress on the status of active-shooter training for screening personnel, and law enforcement reimbursable agreements that are used to offset the costs of security at the screening checkpoints. ###
11.17.2014	U.S. Reps. Smith, Waters Mark Alzheimer's Foundation 12th Annual Memory Screening Day WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Representatives Chris Smith (R-N.J.) and Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), House co-Chairs of the Bipartisan, Bicameral Task Force on Alzheimer's disease, commended the Alzheimer's Foundation of America (AFA) for holding its 12th annual Memory Screening Day on Nov. 18. "The AFA has remained steadfast in its commitment to provide access to these necessary evaluations, which assist Americans in forming their healthcare decisions surrounding Alzheimer's disease and dementia. I have been fortunate to collaborate with members of AFA for many years to help raise awareness about this debilitating disease, and they have made great inroads in both informing the public and providing the needed resources for early detection of Alzheimer's disease," said Smith. "National Memory Screening Day is a wonderful opportunity for individuals with memory concerns to get free and confidential screenings for Alzheimer's disease and other problems affecting memory," said Waters. "It is also an opportunity to raise awareness of Alzheimer's disease and promote the value of memory screening and early detection." For over a decade, the AFA has held annual National Memory Screening Days in November during National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month. The AFA provides these safe, private screenings in collaboration with local organizations and healthcare professionals. Last year alone, there were 7,500 NMSD sites with over 250,000 individuals participating. Alzheimer's is the 6th leading cause of death in the United States, with a 68 percent increase in deaths caused by Alzheimer's in the last 10 years. Alzheimer's disease, a degenerative condition characterized by steadily deteriorating thinking and memory skills, currently has no cure. Sharing the impact of the disease are the 15 million family members and others who act as caregivers and provide an estimated 17 billion hours of unpaid care—often relinquishing their jobs and other obligations to do so. Economic costs of unpaid care are estimated to exceed $200 billion annually. In New Jersey, an estimated 170,000 Garden State residents suffered from this form of dementia in 2014, and 443,000 caregivers provided unpaid care. In California, nearly 600,000 have Alzheimer's disease with 1.5 million family members providing care. National Memory Screening Day is of great potential significance for the millions of Americans who may be unaware that they have Alzheimer's disease, and have not yet developed a plan of action. On Nov. 18th, local sites are offering free, confidential memory screenings to the public, as well as education about memory concerns, dementia, caregiving and healthy aging. You can find the nearest screening site by entering your zip code here: https://www.afascreenings.org/. "There is a persistent stigma associated with Alzheimer's disease that prevents people from talking about it and taking action that could ultimately help improve quality of life," said Charles J. Fuschillo, Jr., president and CEO of the Alzheimer's Foundation of America. "We encourage people to seek early detection of memory issues on National Memory Screening Day by offering free, confidential screenings. A memory screening is much like any other routine health check-up – it's non-invasive and takes just five to 10 minutes." Memory screenings are not used to diagnose illness. Rather, they are an indicator to determine whether a person might benefit from further examination by a qualified physician. These safe and cost-effective interventions can guide individuals to the appropriate resources before long-term complications, hospitalizations or misdiagnoses occur. Those with normal scores also benefit from screenings, as greater knowledge dispels fears, provides a baseline for future screenings, and promotes disease prevention. "Early detection of Alzheimer's disease improves treatment and helps individuals and families plan for their future," said Waters. "I congratulate the Alzheimer's Foundation of America for organizing the 12th annual National Memory Screening Day." "Memory screenings are not only the first step on the path to obtaining an accurate and early diagnosis, they also offer insight into brain health to all who participate," said Smith. "I highly encourage everyone to take advantage of this opportunity." For additional information on Alzheimer's disease and memory screenings, visit: www.nationalmemoryscreening.org. Smith and Waters also teamed up with other House members earlier this year to introduce HRes. 489, which calls on the U.S. to both engage in and lead a coordinated, international effort to advance work for the treatment, prevention and, perhaps, even a cure for Alzheimer's disease as well as other forms of dementia. Smith co-authored the bipartisan National Alzheimer's Project Act or NAPA, which passed the House in 2010 and was enacted in 2011 to establish the goal of preventing and successfully treating Alzheimer's disease by 2025 in the United States. HRes. 489 calls on the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) to enter into negotiations with the World Health Organization (WHO) to develop a Global Alzheimer's and Dementia Action Plan focused on areas such as research, clinical care, supportive services for patients and for caregivers, prevention and health promotion, public awareness and education Smith recently chaired a series of hearings in the subcommittee on global health. It is similar to the bipartisan effort in 2010 led by Smith and then-Congressman, now Senator, Ed Markey (D-MA) who teamed up to write NAPA, HR 4689. That bill led to enactment of NAPA (PL 111-375), which established the goal of preventing and successfully treating Alzheimer's disease by 2025 in the United States. Click here to read the national plan. The plan reflects efforts of the Advisory Council on Alzheimer's Research, Care, and Services—also created by NAPA—as well as advocates across the country. It required the development of the national plan to employ and coordinate government and private sector research and improve care and support services. The law also created an Advisory Committee of private and federal experts to work with the HHS Secretary to comprehensively assess and address Alzheimer's research, institutional services and home and community-based care.
11.17.2014	Waters Kicks Off Covered California's Open Enrollment Inglewood, CA – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) joined elected officials, civil rights leaders, and local health officials to kick off Covered California's open enrollment period. Hosted by the City of Inglewood, in collaboration with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) Inglewood South Bay Branch, the kick-off featured a press conference and free health fair. In attendance were Inglewood Mayor James Butts, National NAACP Director Ron Hasson, Covered California Deputy Communications Officer Dana Howard, local elected officials, and representatives of the Inglewood/Airport Area Chamber of Commerce. The Health Fair took place at Rogers' Park in Inglewood. Waters spoke on the importance and continued success of the Affordable Care Act in California. Her full remarks are below, as prepared for delivery. I congratulate the City of Inglewood and the Inglewood South Bay Branch of the NAACP for organizing this free Health Fair and Open Enrollment "Kick-Off" for Covered California. The NAACP is the oldest civil rights organization in the country. It has been fighting racial discrimination and creating opportunities for African Americans – and indeed all Americans – for more than a century. Today, the NAACP is helping to expand access to health care right here in Inglewood. Last March, we celebrated the fourth anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into law, and its success in expanding health insurance coverage for millions of Americans is becoming clear. More than 8 million Americans signed up for health coverage under the new health care exchanges over the past year. Millions more are getting covered through Medicaid expansion. More than 3 million young adults, who would otherwise have been uninsured, can now stay on their parents' health plan until the age of 26. Small businesses finally have access to good, affordable coverage. The Affordable Care Act has also reduced prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare by closing the so-called "donut hole." It has enabled 76 million Americans to receive free check-ups, cancer screenings, and other preventive health services with no co-pays or deductibles. Most importantly, because of the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies cannot exclude anyone because of a pre-existing condition. Here in California, the Affordable Care Act is expanding health insurance coverage through Covered California. Last year, 1.4 million Californians signed up for a plan through Covered California, and I am proud to say that Covered California's website worked on day one! Today, we kick-off Covered California's Open Enrollment period for 2015. I encourage everyone who is not already covered to sign up for health insurance, and I encourage everyone to take advantage of the free health screenings, flu shots, and health classes being offered at today's Health Fair. Good health care starts with regular check-ups, preventive services, and healthy living! ###
10.20.2014	Waters Calls for Review of Ebola Protocols at LAX LOS ANGELES, CA – Citing concerns from airport police officers, flight attendants, nurses and many others, a senior congresswoman representing Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) has called for a meeting to review the current procedures being undertaken to screen passengers for – and respond to – a potential incident involving the Ebola virus. In a letter to Gina Marie Lindsey, Executive Director of Los Angeles World Airports, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), who represents the district that includes LAX, requested a meeting with "officials responsible for the development and implementation of Ebola screening and response protocols at LAX." Specifically, Waters called for a meeting with Lindsey and the proper officials from the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Waters noted she will also invite the mayors of the cities surrounding LAX as well as other key stakeholders. Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) is a City of Los Angeles department that owns and operates a system of three airports, including LAX. Waters wrote, "[T]here is growing concern in the community about the threat that Ebola poses to public health. Organizations representing diverse constituencies such as airport police officers, flight attendants and nurses have contacted my office to express their concerns. Given the potential for the spread of Ebola through air travel, it is critical that officials in the community surrounding LAX understand the procedures that are being followed at LAX to protect passengers, employees, and the community." The text of the letter can be found below. Ms. Gina Marie Lindsey Executive Director Los Angeles World Airports 1 World Way Los Angeles, CA 90045 Dear Ms. Lindsey I write to request a meeting to discuss Ebola screening and response protocols at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). There is growing concern in the community about the threat that Ebola poses to public health. Organizations representing diverse constituencies such as airport police officers, flight attendants and nurses have contacted my office to express their concerns. Given the potential for the spread of Ebola through air travel, it is critical that officials in the community surrounding LAX understand the procedures that are being followed at LAX to protect passengers, employees, and the community. I therefore request a meeting to review the current procedures being undertaken at LAX to screen passengers for Ebola and to respond in the event that an infected passenger is identified. The meeting should include officials responsible for the development and implementation of Ebola screening and response protocols at LAX, including yourself and appropriate officials representing Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), the U.S. Department of Homeland Security (DHS), U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). It is my intention to invite the mayors of the cities surrounding LAX as well as representatives of key LAX stakeholders. As you know, LAX plays a critical role in our local and national economy and serves as a popular destination or transfer point for millions of domestic and international travelers. It is crucial that we work together to effectively screen passengers for Ebola and protect public health, while ensuring that LAX can continue to be a safe and welcoming destination for travelers from around the world. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Jeh Johnson, Secretary of Homeland Security The Honorable Sylvia Mathews Burwell, Secretary of Health and Human Services R. Gil Kerlikowske, Commissioner, Customs and Border Protection Dr. Tom Frieden, Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ###
10.08.2014	Congresswoman Waters Congratulates the City of Gardena on $375,000 COPS Hiring Program Award October 8, 2014 Washington, DC- Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) congratulated the Gardena Police Department on receiving a $375,000 grant from the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program (CHP). In a letter to Police Chief Edward Medrano, Congresswoman Waters praised the City of Gardena for its focus on recruiting school resource officers (SROs) and bringing military veterans into the force. "I am proud to represent the City of Gardena in the U.S. Congress, particularly when its public servants receive much-deserved national recognition," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am pleased that this hard-working police force received this award and that it will have the resources it needs to protect the schoolchildren, families, and neighbors of Gardena. Law enforcement agencies around the country should emulate Gardena's focus on recruiting school resource officers and veterans while improving police relations with the community." The Department of Justice's CHP grants cover most of the costs associated with recruiting full-time sworn officers into law enforcement agencies throughout the country. They also allow these agencies to rehire officers who have been laid off due to budget restraints. This year, the Justice Department awarded a total $121.4 million to 212 different law enforcement agencies. CHP Awards are granted to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies nationwide, for the creation and preservation of law enforcement jobs. The program gives priority consideration to law enforcement agencies that requested funds for the hiring of school resource officers or military veterans. Agencies looking to build trust between police and the community or focus on gun violence are also a priority of the program. For any questions about this program and other COPS grants, please contact the COPS Office External Affairs Division at 202-514-9079. Full text of the letter is below. I commend you and the Gardena Police Department on your recent award of $375,000 from the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program (CHP). This grant is proof that the Gardena Police Department is a model for law enforcement nationwide. The significant award will allow Gardena to address its fiscal needs while recruiting more school resource officers (SROs) and bringing military veterans into the force. I am proud to represent the City of Gardena in the U.S. Congress, particularly when its public servants receive much-deserved national recognition. The CHP grants are awarded to law enforcement agencies based on their budgetary needs, local crime statistics, and hiring plans. The CHP program received applications from all over the country, but gave special consideration to applicants that placed a significant emphasis on community relations. I am pleased that this hard-working police force received this award and that it will have the resources it needs to protect the schoolchildren, families, and neighbors of Gardena. Law enforcement agencies around the country should emulate Gardena's focus on recruiting school resource officers and veterans while improving police relations with the community. Should your Department have any questions or concerns, please do not hesitate to contact me or Eduardo Soto of my staff at (202) 225-2201. ###
10.02.2014	Congresswoman Waters Urges State Department to Support the Rights of Peaceful Demonstrators in Haiti October 2, 2014 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, expressing concern about the potential for political instability and violence in Haiti. The letter urges him to use his influence to encourage the Government of Haiti to respect the rights of Haitian citizens to peaceably assemble and express their political opinions free from government intimidation. Copies of the letter were sent to Thomas C. Adams, Haiti Special Coordinator, and Ambassador Pamela A. White, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Haiti. The text of the letter follows: I am extremely concerned about the potential for political instability and violence in Haiti. It has been reported that Haitian police used water hoses and tear gas against thousands of Haitian demonstrators, who were attempting to march towards the home of former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide on September 30th as part of commemorations of the anniversary of the 1991 coup d'état. These confrontational tactics were used despite reports that the demonstrators were peaceful. It has also been reported that police blocked the route along which the demonstrators had planned to march. Given Haiti's past history of political violence and violations of human rights, I am concerned that efforts to intimidate demonstrators could lead to a dangerous confrontation between demonstrators and the police. This in turn, could lead to a tragic loss of life among innocent Haitians and further political instability in Haiti. It could also jeopardize earthquake recovery and economic development efforts supported by the United States and interfere with efforts to organize elections. Given the considerable amount of U.S. foreign assistance that has been invested in Haiti in recent years, this kind of repression could be a tremendous setback. I strongly urge you to use your influence and the diplomatic resources available to the United States to encourage the Government of Haiti to respect the rights of Haitian citizens to peaceably assemble and express their political opinions free from government intimidation. To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here. ###
10.02.2014	Congresswoman Waters Expresses Concern about Efforts to Illegally Arrest President Aristide in Haiti September 12, 2014 Washington, DC – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry, expressing deep concern that there is an effort to illegally arrest President Aristide in Haiti. Copies of the letter were sent to Thomas C. Adams, Haiti Special Coordinator, and Ambassador Pamela A. White, U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Haiti. The text of the letter follows: I am extremely concerned about the situation in Haiti. I have been informed that orders were given to lift all of the officers from the police unit that was providing security at the home of President Aristide, and all of the police left the vicinity this morning at about 1:00 am. That leaves President Aristide and his family totally exposed. I am deeply concerned that there is an effort to illegally arrest President Aristide. Given the fact that President Aristide's supporters have gathered around his house in recent days in an effort to show their support for him, one can reasonably expect that they will surround his house in order to prevent his arrest. No one should want a confrontation between President Aristide's supporters and the police. I fear that a dangerous situation may be developing that could lead to a loss of life and further political instability in Haiti. Please intervene immediately to avoid an unnecessary and dangerous confrontation and ensure that chaos does not ensue in Haiti. To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here. ###
09.24.2014	Congresswoman Waters Announces $4.5 Million Federal Grant for LA County for Residential Noise Mitigation in Lennox and Athens September 24, 2014 Washington, DC- Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) announced that the County of Los Angeles has been awarded a $4.5 million grant from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for residential noise mitigation. The grant extends funding for the County's Residential Sound Insulation Program, which provides assistance to families in unincorporated areas of the county to mitigate the impact of noise from aircraft flying into and out of Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). This grant may be used to provide residential noise mitigation for up to 200 dwellings benefitting approximately 910 people in portions of Lennox and Athens. "I am proud to announce that the County of Los Angeles has been awarded this grant to help families in Lennox and Athens who live with constant airport noise in their homes," said Congresswoman Waters. Residents of Lennox and Athens who wish to find out if they qualify for residential noise mitigation can contact the County's Residential Sound Insulation Program at (626) 586-1798. "For many years, I have been concerned about the impact of airport noise upon the individuals and families who live, work and go to school near LAX," continued Congresswoman Waters. "Noise from planes landing at and departing from LAX is very disruptive for many people in these communities. This grant will bring relief to families in Lennox and Athens who experience airport noise every day." Earlier this month, the City of Inglewood was awarded a $10 million grant from the FAA for residential noise mitigation for homes in Inglewood. Inglewood residents who wish to find out if they qualify for the program can contact the City of Inglewood's Residential Sound Insulation Program at (310) 412-5289. ###
09.16.2014	Waters Applauds CFPB Action Against Corinthian Colleges WASHINGTON, DC – Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, expressed support for the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's announcement that it would take legal action against Corinthian Colleges, Inc. for its predatory lending practices. Upon hearing the news, Rep. Waters reiterated her support for an unqualified ability for all students enrolled at Corinthian to withdraw and receive a refund. Currently, unqualified refunds are only provided to a small group of students, as required under an agreement with the Department of Education. "Now more than ever, these students need access to relief beyond what was provided them under Corinthian's agreement with the Department of Education," Waters said. "Every student should be able to withdraw and receive a refund from their Corinthian school; and if their school closes, they should all immediately receive a federal loan discharge to wipe out their debt." Congresswoman Waters has been a longtime critic of predatory practices among some of the nation's for-profit colleges, especially on the issue of gainful employment. In a letter to Education Secretary Arne Duncan in July 2014, Waters demanded universal access to refunds and urged the Department of Education to make Corinthian bear most of the cost of those refunds. Waters also announced legislation last week that would allow distressed private education loan borrowers to rehabilitate their credit. According to the Department of Education's Office of Federal Student Aid, nearly 40 percent of Corinthian students have defaulted on their loans since 2008. "I applaud the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and Director Richard Cordray for taking meaningful action on behalf of Corinthian students," Waters concluded. "Having worked on this issue for over 20 years, including as a California Assemblywoman long before coming to DC, it is heartening to see federal support for regulations I fought for long ago. Corinthian Colleges has long deceived students into assuming crushing amounts of debt by misrepresenting their job placement numbers and the strength of their programs, all while receiving up to 90 percent of their revenues from the federal government. It is time regulators stepped up and began to provide real unequivocal relief to students harmed by for-profit schools, especially through strong rules for gainful employment and by limiting the role of taxpayer funds in these deceptive practices. Had strict gainful employment standards been applicable to Corinthian programs, this situation may have been avoided. It is my sincere hope that the CFPB's enforcement action today will send a message to other predatory institutions and their boards that these unscrupulous and harmful practices will not escape federal scrutiny. Moreover, I hope this action makes clear to students that they now have an advocate in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau." ###
09.16.2014	Congresswoman Waters Marks the 20th Anniversary of the Passage of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA-43) commemorated 20 years since the signing of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) into law on Saturday, September 13th. The legislation created critical protections for victims of domestic violence and dramatically strengthened our nation's criminal justice response to violence against women, the ability to keep victim's safe, and holding perpetrators accountable. VAWA has a strong track record of success and we must continue to strengthen our response to these acts while deepening our commitment to all survivors. As a strong supporter of VAWA, Waters released the following statement: "In 2013, I was a co-sponsor of the bi-partisan VAWA Reauthorization bill. The bill was a victory for women and the entire nation. The victims of domestic violence, dating violence, and sexual assault had waited long enough. We see throughout California and the country, thousands of Americans who fall victim to domestic violence, human trafficking, sexual assault, dating violence and stalking no longer have to live in fear because of important victim protections under this law. Throughout my career, I have been a strong supporter of efforts to reduce domestic violence and connect victims with those who can help. The reality is domestic violence occurs in our neighborhoods and in our families. We must continue to do all we can to break this cycle and raise awareness to those who have suffered domestic violence. I commend my colleagues who worked tirelessly to pass this critical legislation. We are committed to continuing to strengthen abuse programs and will ensure that law enforcement has the essential tools to combat domestic violence in our communities." ###
09.12.2014	September 12, 2014 Waters Salutes Women in Service Washington, D.C. – Just one day after the 13th anniversary of the tragic September 11 attacks on our nation, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) paid tribute to women who bravely serve our nation as members of the military, law enforcement, fire departments, first responders, USO and the American Red Cross. Waters gave keynote remarks at the Harbor City/Harbor Gateway Chamber of Commerce "Tribute to American Heroes: Saluting Women who Serve" luncheon, which took place Friday, September 12 at Sunrider International in Torrance. In her remarks, Waters discussed the growing participation of women who serve, and cited examples of the trail blazers who led the way. She also discussed her time serving on the House Veterans' Affairs Committee, where she introduced a bill to establish a Center for Women Veterans at the Department of Veterans Affairs, which today monitors and coordinates the health services, benefits, and programs for women veterans and ensures they are treated with dignity and respect. Below is an excerpt of her remarks: "I know you share in my heartfelt appreciation for those who risk their lives and to protect our families and our freedom. This includes not only branches of the military, but our law enforcement officers, Fire Fighters, USO and the American Red Cross. Women are the fastest growing population in the country within the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs. And the role that women have played in our nation's military cannot be understated, in large part because of the countless barriers broken down by women who have served our country throughout the years. ??Currently, we have more women than ever returning from service in our nation's armed forces. The population of women Veterans in the United States is over two million. In our state of California, we have 184,774 female veterans – the second largest of any state. And in our own Congressional District, there are nearly 2,500 female veterans. I am committed to continuing to ensure that our veterans receive the benefits they deserve and services appropriate to their needs. Today, I have taken an active role in fighting to end the veterans' disability benefits claims backlog at the Department of Veterans Affairs. I have dedicated staff members with expertise in handling veterans' complaints and disability claims. And I have been responsible for assisting veterans with disability claims by working with the VA to locate misplaced records and documenting service-related health problems. Yesterday, we commemorated the 13thanniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 and honored the memory of those who lost their lives in Virginia, New York, and Pennsylvania. As we continue to face new challenges around the world, let us remember the heroic actions of our first responders who continue to inspire us. Like those who put their lives on the line for us overseas, the brave women serving as our nation's law enforcement, firefighters, paramedics and Red Cross are defending us here at home. They share that same commitment to our nation and our society and their contribution is also immensely important. Everywhere we turn, women are serving our cities, states and nations. They are in our communities, and they are risking our lives to protect our families and our freedom. Thank you so very much, and may God Bless the women – and men – who serve not only in the military, but within law enforcement, fire departments, the USO and the American Red Cross." Waters addressed a room full of public officials and members of the U.S. Navy, Air Force, Army, Marines, Coast Guard, USO, Los Angeles Police Department, Sheriff, Port Policy, LA City Fire Department, LA County Fire Department and the American Red Cross. ###
09.12.2014	Congresswoman Waters Announces $10.25 Million Federal Grant for Improvements to the Willowbrook/Rosa Parks Metro Station September 12, 2014 Los Angeles, CA- Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) announced that the Department of Transportation awarded a TIGER grant in the amount of $10,250,000 to Metro for the implementation of the Willowbrook/Rosa Parks Station Master Plan. TIGER is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by investing in transportation infrastructure through local governments and transit agencies like Metro in Los Angeles County. "I congratulate Metro upon being awarded this TIGER grant to improve the Willowbrook/Rosa Parks Station," said Congresswoman Waters. "Many of my constituents use this station." The grant will be used to modernize the Willowbrook/Rosa Parks Station, which connects Metro's Blue and Green lines and functions as a major regional transit center in Los Angeles County. Metro's modernization plan will expand existing rail, bus, community shuttle, and bicycle facilities; enhance pedestrian and vehicular access; and improve customer service. "I strongly supported Metro's application for this TIGER grant, and I urged Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx to fully fund the grant request," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am proud to have assisted Metro in its efforts to improve public transportation in Los Angeles County." Congresswoman Waters is a strong supporter of the TIGER program. On July 30th, she joined together with Congressman William L. Enyart (IL-12) to send a letter to House appropriators urging support for a minimum of $550 million in TIGER funding in fiscal year 2015. The letter was signed by 126 Members of Congress. "I will continue to support the TIGER program, which finances job creation through investments in transportation infrastructure in Los Angeles County and throughout the United States," concluded Congresswoman Waters. Metro received a second TIGER grant in the amount of $11,800,000 for the Eastside Access Improvements project, which will upgrade the streetscape and facilities surrounding the1st/Central Station of the Regional Connector rail line. ###
09.12.2014	Congresswoman Waters Announces $10 Million Federal Grant for the City of Inglewood for Residential Noise Mitigation September 11, 2014 Inglewood, CA- Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) awarded a $10 million grant to the City of Inglewood for residential noise mitigation. The grant extends funding for the City's Residential Sound Insulation Program, which provides assistance to Inglewood families to mitigate the impact of noise from aircraft flying into and out of Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). "I congratulate the City of Inglewood upon being awarded this grant to help families in Inglewood mitigate the impact of airport noise in their homes," said Congresswoman Waters. "Although Inglewood has previously received noise mitigation funds, not all residents have been covered and many have been waiting for years for soundproofing for their homes." The grant may be used to provide residential noise mitigation for up to 480 dwellings in the City of Inglewood. Inglewood residents who wish to find out if they qualify for residential noise mitigation can contact the City's Residential Sound Insulation Program at (310) 412-5289. "For many years, I have been concerned about the impact of airport noise upon the individuals and families who live, work and go to school near LAX," continued Congresswoman Waters. "Noise from planes landing at and departing from LAX is very disruptive for many families in these communities. This grant will bring relief to families in Inglewood who experience airport noise every day." ###
09.11.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today on the thirteenth anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: "It has been thirteen years to the day since an unfathomable act of violence took the lives of nearly 3,000 innocent Americans. Every year, we honor the thousands lost in New York, Washington, D.C., and Pennsylvania, though we remember them every day. "We came together as a Nation after that horrific Tuesday morning in 2001, as we do today, to honor our fallen. We passed the Fallen Heroes of 9-11 Act in 2011 to do our part in remembering their sacrifice. The legislation authorized the minting of three Congressional Gold Medals – one for each of the sites of the attack. These three medals were unveiled and awarded yesterday in a ceremony held in the Emancipation Hall at the U.S. Capitol. "I was proud to join my congressional colleagues in cosponsoring the Fallen Heroes of 9-11 Act and hope to continue honoring those who perished on that fateful day. We owe our deepest sympathies to those who sacrificed themselves that day. To the brave members of our Armed Forces, we owe our endless gratitude for their sacrifice and pray for their swift homecoming. "On this National Day of Service and Remembrance, we should kindle the bonds that pulled us through this tragedy and uphold all that has made this country a beacon of hope to the world." ###
09.10.2014	Citing the countless Americans who have experienced heartbreak, frustration and devastation as a result of incomplete or erroneous information on their credit reports, today Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released a proposal that would make sweeping reforms to our nation's consumer reporting system. The draft proposal, entitled the "Fair Credit Reporting Improvement Act of 2014," will enhance requirements on the consumer reporting agencies (CRAs), and furnishers that provide information to these CRAs, to guarantee consumers have the capacity to ensure that the information on their credit reports is accurate and complete. The draft proposal comes in the aftermath of a number of recent court cases, news reports and studies that have detailed the significant problems and flaws in the current consumer reporting system. Today at 2:00pm, a subcommittee of the House Financial Services Committee will hold a hearing entitled "An Overview of the Credit Reporting System," where these issues – and Waters' proposal – will be discussed. "Credit reports are no longer just used exclusively by lenders in making a credit decision. More and more, credit reports are used in a variety of ways, from employment decisions, to determining a consumer's ability to rent a home, buy a car, or purchase insurance," said Congresswoman Waters, top Democrat on the committee of jurisdiction. "A person's credit report is too important in determining access to a wide array of opportunities for these reports to contain inaccurate and incomplete information. This proposal addresses many of the flaws with the existing consumer reporting system, by making common-sense changes that enhance consumers' rights, create more transparency over the consumer reporting and credit scoring process, and increase the accountability of credit reporting agencies, furnishers, and companies that develop credit scoring models and formulas." According to the Federal Trade Commission, one in five, or roughly 40 million consumers, have had an error on one of their credit reports. About 10 million consumers have errors that could increase the cost of credit available to them. The draft proposal makes vital reforms to the Fair Credit Reporting Act to protect consumers. Key provisions include: Providing relief to millions of borrowers who were victimized by predatory mortgage lenders and servicers, by removing adverse information about these residential loans that are found to be unfair, deceptive, abusive, fraudulent or illegal; Ending the unreasonably long time periods that most adverse information can remain on a person's credit report, shortening such periods by three years; Giving consumers the tools to truly verify the accuracy and completeness of their credit reports, by mandating that furnishers retain all records for as long as adverse information about these accounts remains on a person's credit report; Eliminating punitive credit scoring practices by removing fully paid or settled debt from credit reports, including medical debt, which has been found not to be a reliable predictor of a person's creditworthiness; and Giving distressed private education loan borrowers the same chance to repair their credit as federal student loan borrowers, by removing adverse information when delinquent private education loan borrowers make consecutive on-time monthly payments for a certain period of time on their loans. The draft proposal also restricts the use of credit reports for employment purposes, which employers are increasingly using to screen qualified job applicants despite a lack of adequate data to show that a person's credit is predictive of their job performance. It also sets a dollar amount that a consumer can be charged to buy their credit score from CRAs, while also requiring CRAs to provide consumers with a free annual credit or educational credit score upon a consumer's request. Waters added, "Over 10 years ago, Congress tried to strengthen consumer protections, but our consumer reporting system still has a number of systemic flaws. I believe we must take action to end the heartache that has plagued millions of consumers who have been unable to obtain a job, go to college, or buy a car because of their credit score. Many of these problems have stemmed our country's economic growth. This draft proposal attempts to meet our obligation to ensure that consumers who have fallen victim – or fallen on hard times – are not deprived of the chance to achieve the American Dream." Text of the draft proposal can be found here. A summary of the draft proposal can be found here. ###
08.22.2014	On Monday, Aug. 25, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) will travel to her hometown of St. Louis, Missouri to attend the funeral of Michael Brown at the Friendly Temple Missionary Baptist Church on Dr. Martin Luther King Blvd. She released the following statement today: "I am particularly sympathetic to the parents and relatives of Michael Brown for their loss, and am unsettled over the circumstances of his death. I was reared in St. Louis, Missouri, attended elementary school and was a graduate of Vashon High School. Still today, I have many family members in St. Louis and recently buried my mother there, Velma Carr Moore, a longtime resident of St. Louis. "I have closely followed the daily reports regarding the circumstances of Michael Brown's death and have paid close attention to eyewitness accounts of the shooting. I have also continued to watch the televised protests that have been going on for the past 13 days in Ferguson. I am reminded of the police shootings that have taken place in the Los Angeles area, and the role I played in attempting to articulate the pain and hopelessness of the people of South Los Angeles following the Rodney King beating by L.A. police officers. "I have been in contact with some of the elected officials and community leaders in the St. Louis area and join with the overall community in calling for justice for Michael Brown. My presence at the funeral will afford me the opportunity to personally share my condolences with the family. While I am in St. Louis, I will meet with local leaders and offer my assistance in future organizing to help create change in the Ferguson community. " ###
08.22.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today regarding the California Department of Industrial Relations' Division of Occupation Safety and Health's (Cal/OSHA) announcement to fine Menzies Aviation $77,250 following an investigation into the February death of an employee at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). "I applaud the announcement by Cal/OSHA to fine Menzies Aviation $77,250 for several safety violations uncovered during its investigation into the death of airport worker Cesar Valenzuela. I find it deeply disturbing that these violations may have contributed to Mr. Valenzuela's death. "Cal/OSHA determined that Menzies employees have been subject to unsafe working conditions at LAX. According to reports, Menzies was fined nearly $95,000 in 2013 for unsafe practices at LAX including the type of violations that if not fixed could result in the death of a worker. The airport administration and the airlines must take responsibility for maintaining safe working conditions at LAX. "We cannot continue to allow companies like Menzies to operate in an unsafe manner at LAX, putting both workers and passengers at risk. The traveling public and employees that work at LAX deserve better. Airport workers should be able to do their jobs without the fear of losing their lives. "Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), the operator of LAX, has been investing in structural improvements to attract domestic and international travelers and help maintain the airport's standing as an economic engine for the region. But the best way for LAX to be a world class airport is to put safety first. It's time for the leadership at LAX to step up and show their commitment to holding airline contractors accountable. I see no reason why LAWA should continue contracting with Menzies Aviation, which has been fined and cited on more than one occasion for unsafe practices." ###
07.30.2014	July 30, 2014 Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Enyart Lead 126 Members Urging Robust Funding for TIGER Grants Washington, D.C. - Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) and Congressman William L. Enyart (IL-12) sent a letter expressing extreme disappointment in the drastic cuts to TIGER grant funding for fiscal year 2015 in the House Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations (T-HUD) bill. TIGER is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies like Metro in Los Angeles County. The letter was addressed to Chairman Tom Latham and Ranking Member Ed Pastor of the Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Subcommittee. A previous TIGER grant facilitated the construction of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor. The letter urged support for, at a minimum, the Senate Appropriations Committee funding level for TIGER grants of $550 million in fiscal year 2015 without restrictive language. A total of 126 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: "We were extremely disappointed to learn that TIGER grant funding suffered a more than 80% cut, receiving only $100 million in the fiscal year 2015 House Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations (T-HUD) bill. We were also disappointed by the restrictive language that prohibits certain types of transportation projects such as mass transit from receiving TIGER funding. We are writing to urge you to support, at a minimum, the Senate Appropriations Committee funding level for TIGER grants of $550 million in fiscal year 2015 without restrictive language. "TIGER grants are distributed by competition, and the demand for these grants is enormous in comparison to the available funding. For fiscal year 2014 funding, for example, the Department of Transportation received applications from almost every State in the country for projects that totaled $9.5 billion. The President's budget request had included $1.25 billion for this important program. "Investment in infrastructure creates jobs in communities throughout the United States while it builds and repairs our nation's highways, bridges, and mass transit. The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) estimates that we will need to invest $3.6 trillion in infrastructure by the year 2020. In 2013, in an evaluation of capacity, condition, and public safety, among other critical characteristics, the ASCE gave American infrastructure a D+. Cutting funding to the TIGER grant program would be a terrible mistake in light of the drastic need to improve our infrastructure and to protect American jobs. "Again, we urge you to support investment in our nation's transportation infrastructure through adoption of no less than the Senate funding level of $550 million for the TIGER grant program in fiscal year 2015." ###
07.30.2014	July 30, 2014 Congresswoman Waters Applauds Passage of Veterans' Health Bill Washington, DC– Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) voted in favor of the Conference Report for the Veterans Access, Choice & Accountability Act of 2014 (H.R. 3230), which passed the House of Representatives by an overwhelming, bipartisan vote of 420 to 5. "I am proud to support the Veterans Access, Choice & Accountability Act of 2014. This legislation will help to ensure that all of our nation's veterans are able to receive the health care they need when they need it," said Congresswoman Waters. The conference report provides $10 billion in emergency funding to allow veterans who have been waiting for more than 30 days for an appointment at a veterans' health facility to access health care outside of the veterans' health system. The conference report provides an additional $5 billion to hire more primary care physicians, specialty care physicians, nurses, and other medical staff to care for our nation's veterans. "We owe a sacred promise to care for our nation's veterans. By passing this conference report, Congress is keeping its promise to the brave men and women who risked their lives in service to our nation," said Congresswoman Waters. The conference report includes $1.5 billion for leases for 27 new veterans' clinics across the United States, four of which will be located in California. These clinics will make health care services available in many communities that currently lack access to veterans' health services. "This legislation will improve the lives of veterans throughout the United States. Today, the House proved that when Democrats and Republicans work together, we can make a difference for the people we serve," concluded Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.22.2014	Following the United States Senate's passage of legislation to extend the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act for seven years, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, praised the chamber's action, and its strong bipartisan vote of 93-4. Over the past several weeks, Waters has been engaged in productive discussions with Democrats, Republicans and President Obama on the importance of renewing the program. She released the following statement: "Once again, the United States Senate has taken action on legislation that is important for our economy, while the House of Representatives remains mired in Republican infighting. I'm concerned that even as the most conservative members of the Senate support renewing the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, the House is picking an ideological fight where there clearly is none. Similar to flood insurance reform and renewal of the Export-Import Bank's charter, Democrats are looking to strike bipartisan consensus on measures that create jobs and propel our economy forward. Unfortunately, the Republican agenda seems to be fostering uncertainty and hamstringing those who are ensuring economic growth and stability. Enacted to provide certainty in the aftermath of the September 11th attacks on our nation, TRIA is essential to doing so. Now that it is clear Chairman Hensarling's legislation does not have the votes to pass, the pressure squarely falls on the House of Representatives and its new leader, Kevin McCarthy. In the past, Mr. McCarthy has said he will get TRIA done ‘hell or high water.' My fellow Democrats and I are willing to work with him to achieve that goal, by drafting a bill that a majority of the House can support. Following productive discussions with President Obama and members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, I remain convinced that there is ample room for negotiation and compromise on this legislation, which protects our nation's job creators from the difficult-to-insure risk associated with a potential terrorist attack." ###
07.22.2014	As the House of Representatives considers the harmful Republican financial services and general government funding proposal, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Committee, offered three amendments designed to provide adequate resources to our financial regulators. The amendments build off concerns raised by Waters last week, when she criticized Republicans for attempting to use an appropriations measure to make controversial legislative changes that would undermine consumer protection, weaken important Wall Street reforms and hurt regulators' ability to protect our economy. Today, she raised concerns about provisions within the legislation, H.R. 5016, that place improper funding restrictions on the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), among others. The three amendments offered by Waters included: An amendment to restore the independent funding of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Under the GOP finding measure, the Bureau's independent funding stream would be eliminated, instead tied to the highly political Congressional appropriations process. Despite being directly relevant to the provisions within the bill, Republicans objected to the amendment, ruling it out of order on an appropriations measure. On the House floor, Waters said: "This legislation would end the Bureau's independence by tying its funding to the highly political Congressional appropriations process. The result will be a weakened CFPB – one unable to properly advocate on behalf of our nation's consumers. And if enacted into law, we would be one step closer to the Republican goal of ending the CFPB altogether – and its work on behalf of our students, seniors, families and service members." An amendment to fully fund the Securities and Exchange Commission, one of Wall Street's top cops, at the President's request of $1.7 billion, and at no cost to the taxpayer. The underlying bill undermines the SEC by cutting nearly $300 million or nearly 20 percent from the requested level. The Waters amendment will be voted on in the coming days. Waters said, "The world's capital markets have grown at an ever accelerating rate, and likewise, so have the SEC's responsibilities. Today, the SEC oversees 11,000 investment advisers, 10,000 mutual funds, 4,450 broker-dealers, the securities exchanges, clearing agencies, credit rating agencies and other self-regulatory organizations. The SEC also reviews the disclosures of nearly 9,000 public companies. A fully funded SEC helps America's entrepreneurs raise funds to finance jobs and development. A fully funded SEC ensures that our markets operate efficiently. A fully funded SEC protects the hard-earned savings funding our nation's retirement and our children's education." An amendment to provide the SEC with the authority to impose and collect reasonable user fees on federally registered investment advisers to increase the number and frequency of SEC examinations. This provision is consistent with legislation coauthored by Waters and Rep. John Delaney (D-MD), H.R. 1627, the Investment Adviser Examination Improvement Act. Last week, Waters called on House Financial Services Committee Chairman Hensarling to hold a hearing on this and other legislative proposals that would increase these reviews. Republicans also objected to this amendment, ruling it out of order on an appropriations measure. Waters said: "Today, investment advisers may go more than decade before being visited by the SEC. It is absolutely essential that we improve the oversight of investment advisers – the people that manage the assets of millions of individual and institutional investors across the country. This is particularly true if we are underfunding the SEC by $300 million, as this underlying bill proposes." ###
07.18.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading advocate in Congress for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing and treatment, introduced a resolution (H.Res. 673) in the House of Representatives today to honor National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day and encourage the nation's health care providers to promote HIV testing among their patients. The resolution was cosponsored by 17 Members of Congress. "National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day is an excellent opportunity to highlight the important role that doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians play in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, and treatment efforts and to encourage them to promote HIV testing among their patients," said Congresswoman Waters. H.Res. 673 urges physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. "There are more than one million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and 16 percent of them do not know it. By encouraging their patients to be tested for HIV, doctors and nurses can enable infected individuals to access appropriate medical care and begin taking action to avoid spreading the virus to others," stated Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is a leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998. On April 4th of this year, she sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2015, which was signed by 60 Members of Congress. Last year, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 895), a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons; H.R. 895 is cosponsored by 32 of her colleagues.
07.18.2014	"I was devastated yesterday when I learned of the tragic destruction of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 over the Ukraine. I condemn this senseless act of violence, and I hope that the individuals responsible for shooting down this plane are swiftly brought to justice. "As a longtime leader in efforts to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, I was especially saddened to learn that many of the passengers were on their way to attend the 2014 International AIDS Conference in Melbourne, Australia. The deaths of longtime AIDS researchers such as former International AIDS Society president Dr. Joep Lange are a profound loss to the worldwide AIDS community. While the exact number of passengers planning to attend the AIDS Conference is yet to be determined, the loss of up to 100 medical researchers, health workers, and community activists will be deeply felt by all who care about ending the scourge of HIV/AIDS. "I participated in both the 2006 International AIDS Conference in Toronto, Canada, and the 2012 International AIDS Conference in Washington, DC, and I was inspired by the commitment, determination and enthusiasm shared by attendees from all over the world. I hope that the tragic deaths of so many dedicated researchers and activists on their way to attend this year's conference will inspire all of us to rededicate ourselves to stopping the spread of HIV and finding a cure for this terrible disease. "My thoughts and prayers are with all of the families who lost their loved ones in this horrific tragedy."
07.09.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today in light of a video showing a California Highway Patrol officer repeatedly punching a woman in the face on the 10 Freeway: "In the wake of the recent video showing an African-American woman being viciously punched by a California Highway Patrol officer, we are once again witnessing a brutal attack on a human being by a law enforcement officer. And once again, we are hearing from law enforcement that no one knows the events leading up to what was caught on tape or what prompted the officer's actions. However, I maintain there is nothing that can justify the officer punching a helpless woman on a freeway. This type of police brutality happens too often with African-Americans and we have seen it time and time again. There are those who should know by now that we will not keep quiet when incidents like this occur. "I have been fighting the battle against abusive law enforcement for years and it seems as if some police jurisdictions haven't learned anything about the outrage caused by officers when they use excessive force and brutal tactics. My history of fighting against police abuse dates back to the extensive organizing and rallying to confront former Los Angeles Police Chief Daryl Gates in response to abusive tactics against African-American men and women in the Los Angeles area, including the killing of Ms. Eula Love. We marched and rallied at Parker Center Headquarters and called for the removal of Mr. Gates as police chief. We also drew national attention to the killing of Ms. Love and have continued our struggle against police abuse in every instance where police use force to injure and kill innocent people. "I stand with the community in demanding a complete and thorough investigation of this incident. Based on the video shown of the patrol officer's forceful punching of Marlene Pinnock, this is enough to demand his dismissal. "Despite all of the work I have done to address the issue of police brutality in the past, I feel obligated to once again organize women in the community to speak out on this issue. We must demand justice and reforms that will create change within law enforcement to prevent this kind of abuse from continuing to happen." ###
07.02.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today marking the 50th anniversary of the signing of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964: "Fifty years ago today, President Lyndon Johnson signed the historic Civil Rights Act of 1964 into law, outlawing discrimination based on race, color, religion, gender or national origin, including barring discrimination in all facilities open to the public, thereby ending the Jim Crow era in regions of the country. This 50th anniversary is a time to remember the debt all of us owe to the courageous leaders of the civil rights movement of the 1960s – many of whom were beaten and in some cases died in their fight for justice. Their struggles and efforts culminated in the enactment of the Civil Rights Act. "Despite the significance of the landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the progress our country has made toward equality, there is much more work that needs to be done. There are still barriers that exist in education and housing. Disparities in health care remain, a significant wealth gap still persists, and the struggle for voting rights continues. "In June 2013, in a 5-4 decision in Shelby County v. Holder, the Supreme Court severely weakened the Voting Rights Act. It is vital for Congress to pass legislation that once again strengthens the Voting Rights Act in order to fully ensure that every citizen has the right to vote. "We must also work together to significantly expand economic and educational opportunity to all Americans – no matter what their race or ethnic origin. We have to ensure that ladders of opportunity are available to every American. By taking such steps as making college more affordable, investing in effective job training, and raising the minimum wage, we can do much more to expand opportunity so that everyone has a fair chance at the American Dream. These actions would be in the spirit of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and would continue to help our country to better live up to its creed that all individuals are created equal." ###
06.18.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), founder of the former Congressional Out of Iraq Caucus, issued the following statement in response to the ongoing situation in Iraq: "I am deeply concerned about the situation in Iraq, and my heart goes out to the Iraqi civilians who have been injured or killed and the displaced families who have been forced to flee their homes. Despite our humanitarian concerns, the United States cannot solve all international crises, and the future of Iraq should be in the hands of its people. I voted against the Iraq war authorization in the first place in 2002, and formed the Out of Iraq Caucus to bring to the House of Representatives an ongoing debate about the war in Iraq and urge the return of U.S. service members to their families. "We were at war in Iraq for eight years and nearly 4,500 of our men and women in uniform lost their lives. Tens of thousands more came back wounded or injured, and their lives were changed forever. The cost of the war is estimated at $815 billion, of which $20 billion alone was invested to train Iraqi security forces to defend themselves and their country. "The American people are war-weary and not interested in another prolonged military effort in Iraq. I will continue to closely monitor the situation, but every conceivable effort must be made in working with the international community to negotiate peace, not a return to war." ###
06.12.2014	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement on the death of actress and civil rights activist, Ruby Dee. She was 91 years old. "Today, we mourn the passing of my dear friend of many years, Ruby Dee, whom I truly admired. She was a gifted and talented woman who joined with her late husband, Ossie Davis, to produce and present some of the most enjoyable and inspirational stage productions and movies that I have ever experienced. Ruby and Ossie were well connected with both the artistic and African-American communities. They were pioneers who opened doors previously shut tight to African-American artists, and planted the seeds for the success that actresses and actors of color enjoy today. "Ruby and Ossie were also community activists committed to social justice and improving the lives of African-Americans. They were remembered by the Congressional Black Caucus for their efforts in establishing the Black Agenda during the 1972 National Black Political Convention. We missed Ossie when he passed away, and we were concerned about Ruby because they were a team, in which you didn't see one without the other. Ossie's death in 2005 was difficult for Ruby and for all of us. Now, her passing will be equally difficult. "Ruby lived a productive life and is well-recorded in the history of this nation and her work will be cherished for years to come. As a legendary actress, playwright, and screenwriter, Ruby's career spanned more than half a century, and her enormous body of work included A Raisin in the Sun, the first Broadway play written by a black woman, and the memorable I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings. I will miss her dearly. My thoughts and prayers are with Ruby's family and friends during this time." ###
06.12.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) applauded the Homeland Security Committee's approval of H.R. 4802, the Hernandez Airport Security Act, a bipartisan bill that was introduced in response to the November 1, 2013, shooting incident at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), which took the life of Gerardo Hernandez, a Transportation Security Administration (TSA) officer who was killed in the line of duty. LAX is located in Congresswoman Waters' congressional district. The Homeland Security Committee approved the bill by voice vote during a markup today, and it now awaits consideration on the House floor. "I applaud the Homeland Security Committee for approving this bill to improve security standards at our nation's airports," said Congresswoman Waters. "The security failures at LAX, which were tragically revealed during the shooting, are simply unacceptable. Congress must make certain they are never repeated." Reports on the LAX shooting incident, released separately by TSA and Los Angeles World Airports, which operates LAX, revealed a number of problems that interfered with incident response efforts. For example, emergency phones and panic buttons at LAX were not in good working order, and problems in coordination between various police and fire departments resulted in multiple command posts at different locations that did not unify for 45 minutes. H.R. 4802 requires the Department of Homeland Security to conduct outreach to airports to verify that they have working plans to respond to security incidents, including active shooter incidents, acts of terrorism, and incidents that target passenger-screening checkpoints. Such plans may include a plan for establishing unified command, a schedule for testing of communications equipment used to receive emergency calls, a plan to communicate with travelers and other persons in the airport, and a schedule of training for airport police, fire, and medical personnel and other relevant stakeholders. "The safety and security of our nation's airports and all of the workers and travelers who pass though them is of paramount importance. The Department of Homeland Security must take action to make certain that airports like LAX have a state-of-the-art emergency response system," concluded Congresswoman Waters. ###
06.10.2014	Last night, on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) spoke in opposition to the Republican Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2015. The bill cuts to historic lows some key housing and transportation initiatives, including the TIGER program, which facilitated the construction of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor. Full text of the Congresswoman's remark are below: "I rise to oppose the Republican Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2015. This bill drastically underfunds critical transportation and housing programs. "The bill's cuts to the TIGER program are particularly egregious. TIGER – formally known as Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery – is a competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure. "The Republican bill cuts TIGER from the 2014 level of $600 million down to a mere $100 million in 2015. Moreover, the bill includes restrictive language that limits TIGER grants by excluding public transit, passenger rail, bicycle and pedestrian projects. "Public transit is an essential part of a modern transportation system. A previous TIGER grant helped the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA) to accelerate the construction of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor, a light rail project that will reduce traffic congestion and improve transportation service in my district. Under the bill's restrictive language, this innovative project would never have qualified for a grant. "TIGER needs to be expanded – not restricted and not cut. The President requested $1.25 billion for TIGER in fiscal year 2015 in order to create jobs and modernize our nation's transportation infrastructure. Earlier this year, I sent a letter to the Appropriations Committee urging support for the President's request, and 144 Members of Congress signed my letter. "I urge my colleagues to strike the restrictive language in this bill, expand the TIGER program, and invest in a transportation system for the 21st century. "I yield back the balance of my time." ###
06.10.2014	The House of Representatives has adopted a measure authored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) that would halt the closure of the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) multifamily field office in Los Angeles. The measure, which was adopted during debate over a housing and transportation funding bill, prohibits HUD from using funds appropriated to relocate asset management staff as part of the controversial Multifamily Housing Transformation Initiative, thereby preventing the closure of offices in Los Angeles and other areas of the country. HUD's Office of Multifamily Housing Programs is responsible for the overall management, development, direction and administration of HUD's Multifamily Housing Programs. The Department's full Transformation Initiative is designed to consolidate 50 field offices into just 12, relocate production and asset management staff, and restructure HUD's multifamily field offices nationwide. "When HUD announced its plans for a major restructuring of Multifamily field offices nationwide, I was deeply concerned. The shortcomings of HUD's relocation plan are not more obvious than right here in the 43rd District, where its decision would close the Los Angeles field office, uproot its entire staff and re-locate its operations to a another regional center that would be responsible for more than double its current workload and face the daunting task of serving 73 million people across 14 states," said Waters, the top Democrat on the Financial Services Committee. "This measure will ensure that the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Los Angeles multifamily asset management staff remains locally based, connected to communities and on-the-ground to serve as the eyes and ears of lawmakers," she added. Waters is a vocal opponent of HUD's Multifamily Transformation in its entirety. On the House floor, she underscored that HUD's plan fails to acknowledge the critical importance of staff who are living and working in the communities they are serving. These individuals, she said, understand the unique nature of each housing market, and have an awareness of each region's unique characteristics. She reiterated her concern that the reorganization would adversely affect delivery of services by reducing staff's ability to effectively respond to unique local concerns – and remain connected to community leaders. Indeed, staff would have less interaction with owners and managers, and responsive walk-in assistance would be eliminated for thousands of people that rely on Multifamily offices. Waters added, "California was one of the hardest hit states by the financial collapse, and too many families suffered from the subsequent wave of foreclosures. With our housing market still struggling to recover, we cannot afford to undercut what little progress we have made with a radical overhaul of HUD's infrastructure." While the amendment only addresses some of her concerns – and would not stop the Transformation altogether – it would codify the recent agreement between HUD and both House and Senate appropriators to keep asset management staff on-site, and leave all existing Multifamily offices open. The U.S. Senate directed HUD to adhere to this agreement last week. The amendment was adopted to the controversial Transportation-Housing and Urban Development funding bill, which makes dramatic cuts to important housing and transportation programs. While it is likely to pass the House, the bill will face a difficult reconciliation process with legislation passed by the U.S. Senate. ###
06.06.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement marking Alzheimer's and Brain Awareness Month, which is observed in June. "As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, I know how devastating this disease can be on patients, families, and caregivers. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that more than 7 million Americans over age 65 will have Alzheimer's by the year 2025. According to recent data, women have a 1 in 6 estimated lifetime risk of developing the disease at age 65, while the risk for men is nearly 1 in 11. Therefore it is imperative that we take the time to recognize Alzheimer's and Brain Awareness Month and the impact Alzheimer's has on millions of American families. "It is more important than ever to improve the lives of those affected by the disease and to raise awareness in our communities. I recently introduced two bills – as I have since 2008 – to address the needs of patients with Alzheimer's disease, their families and caregivers. The Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 2975) authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of Alzheimer's patients. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2976) expands a program that helps Alzheimer's patients who wander away from their homes and are unable to tell people in the community who they are or where they live. In addition, I requested $2 million in funding for this program for Fiscal Year 2015. "I am also working hard to pass H.R.1508, a bill to provide for the issuance of an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal Stamp. It requires the U.S. Postal Service to issue and sell an Alzheimer's Disease Research Semipostal Stamp, with the extra funds going to the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to search for new treatments and a cure for Alzheimer's disease. "No one should have to face Alzheimer's disease alone. While we do not yet have a cure for Alzheimer's, we must all do our part to promote awareness about Alzheimer's disease and support those that are providing care for loved ones. During this month and every day of the year, let's rededicate ourselves to Alzheimer's research, treatment and caregiver support so that we can help all of the patients and families affected by this tragic disease." ###
05.28.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today marking the passing of Dr. Maya Angelou. She was 86 years old. "I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my dear friend, Dr. Maya Angelou, one of the most renowned and inspirational voices of our time. In a career that spanned over more than five decades, Maya was a celebrated author, poet, educator, producer, actress and filmmaker. She was a phenomenal woman who shared her wisdom with the world, inspiring countless individuals and teaching us how to reach unity in the midst of division. "Maya was always very generous in responding to requests by her friends to make public appearances. I remember in response to a request from me to make an appearance at the Black Women's Forum in Los Angeles, she not only honored the request, but thrilled the audience by sharing her life experiences and encouraging the women to reflect on their own lives. Maya was a wise and spiritual woman who taught me valuable lessons about life and did not hesitate to compliment or criticize anyone. "Maya was also much more than a poet; she was an influential leader during the civil rights movement. She fought for social and racial justice by promoting the Southern Christian Leadership Conference with Martin Luther King, Jr. and through her work with the Organization of Afro-American Unity, led by Malcolm X. "Dr. Angelou once said, 'I've learned that people will forget what you said, people will forget what you did, but people will never forget how you made them feel." Indeed, she truly left her mark on all who knew her and I know her presence will be missed. Our nation is grateful for the legacy she has left behind and it will live on through her words and actions. My thoughts and prayers are with her son, Guy Johnson, and her entire family during this difficult time. " ###
05.27.2014	At a time when student debt has reached record levels, and studies show those with excessive debt may be unable to gain access to credit for important purposes like a home purchase, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) is taking steps to ensure that predatory financial products are not taking additional dollars out of the pockets of our nation's graduates. In the midst of graduation season Waters, the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, has joined with lawmakers in the House of Representatives and the U.S. Senate to spearhead critical legislation that will protect students from unfair banking practices involving campus-sponsored financial products. Specifically, the measure seeks to end financial arrangements between colleges and banks that steer financially-strapped students into fee-laden debit cards that increase the costs of college significantly. It does so by ending conflicts of interest and kickbacks between financial institutions and schools, providing much-needed transparency over campus-sponsored financial products and preserving the integrity of federal student aid programs. "Our nation's next generation of leaders is already burdened with excessive education debt, making it harder for them to contribute to our economy and society," said Waters. "Predatory practices that increase the already exorbitant cost of college are not reflective of our national priorities. This legislation would ensure students, many already drowning in debt, can no longer fall victim to unscrupulous practices that drain important federal financial aid through hidden charges, increased fees and other predatory behavior." Banks and financial institutions have long sought to forge partnerships with colleges and universities as a way to gain access to young consumers. However, in order to access this lucrative market, some banks use tactics such as financial payouts to colleges that recommend specific financial products. Recent investigations into campus banking have revealed that too often, many banks and financial firms are using questionable methods to steer students into accounts that are endorsed by their college, and carry high fees. In some cases, this leads students to be guided into needlessly expensive accounts that end up chipping away at their federal student aid and making college more expensive—while schools receive multi-million dollar kickbacks from the banks. The House bill, entitled Curbing Abusive Marketing Practices with University Student Debit Cards Act (CAMPUS Debit Cards Act) would extend protections previously enacted by Congress that eliminated high-cost credit cards and high pressure marketing tactics on campus. This bill would extend these crucial protections to checking accounts, debit cards, and other financial products, helping safeguard the $150 billion in federal student loans and grants students receive each year. Waters joined Representative George Miller (D-CA) and 60 additional cosponsors to introduce the measure in the House. The Senate measure, known as the Protecting Aid for Students Act for 2014 is led by Senators Tom Harkin (D-IA) and Senators Dick Durbin (D-IL) and Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). The legislation is supported by many consumer advocacy and student organizations, including the Center for Responsible Lending, the United States Student Association, the Public Interest Research Group, Consumers Union, and Young Invincibles. In September 2013, Waters led a call for big bank CEOs to explain student debit card deals with colleges, asking bank executives to explain the scope of any such arrangements, how much money the deals pay to colleges, and how much in fees are charged to students. A summary of the legislation is available here. ###
05.21.2014	Following the House Appropriations Committee's approval of a measure to fund the nation's housing programs, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, blasted Republicans for undercutting important housing programs that protect our most vulnerable populations. The legislation, known as the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations bill, slashes or provides insufficient funding for a number of the Department of Housing and Urban Development's (HUD) public and assisted housing programs. These include over $500 million in cuts to important rental assistance and anti-homelessness programs. The measure cuts HUD's Public Housing Program below the fiscal year 2014 enacted level, while funding HUD's Public Housing Capital Fund to its lowest level since the 1980s.Waters released the following statement: "Funding decisions are an excellent indicator of a party's priorities. Unfortunately, the Republican measure approved by the Appropriations Committee today makes clear that federal programs that help families, seniors, veterans and persons with disabilities age in place, live with dignity, and provide for themselves have no place on the Republican agenda. This measure ignores the Department of Housing and Urban Development's recent report on the rising number of very low-income families who are paying more than half of their monthly income on rent and living in severely substandard housing. It abandons those in our country who need our support the most. And I believe it is unacceptable. The bill stalls recent progress we have made toward the nation's goal of ending chronic, family, veteran and youth homelessness. It furthers the chronic underfunding of HUD's Public Housing Program—where half of the 1.2 million residents are seniors and people with disabilities. This means that deteriorating living conditions will persist and the nation will continue to permanently lose thousands of public housing units a year due to disrepair. It also cuts Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS, putting at risk the 60,000-plus households who rely on this program for housing and health stability. We should not be attempting to rein in this country's spending problems at the expense of the well-being of millions of vulnerable Americans across the country. The answer to our nation's fiscal problems is not to slash our country's social safety net programs and harm those who need our support the most. Supporting programs that get individuals and families off the street and into safe and decent housing is not only the right thing to do, but it saves real taxpayer dollars in the long run." In addition to the aforementioned cuts, the THUD legislation falls short in renewing the Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program, likely providing insufficient funding to renew all households who currently have vouchers – before even addressing the 40,000 vouchers lost due to sequestration. In addition, it flat funds homeless assistance grants which, given the inflation of fair market rents each year, needs to be funded at an increased level in order to maintain the same level of services for individuals and families across the country. The funding measure also includes deep cuts to the Housing Opportunities for Persons with AIDS (HOPWA) program – the one program solely dedicated to housing persons with AIDS and HIV—the greatest unmet service need for people living with the disease. ###
05.20.2014	Following today's report by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) finding that consumers' credit scores may be overly penalized for medical debt, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, welcomed the Bureau's findings and called upon Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling to hold a hearing on the issue, and on legislation Waters has introduced to address the problem.Waters released the following statement. "I welcome today's report by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau showing that medical debt often has a disproportionate impact on the creditworthiness of consumers. Illness or injury is often random and unavoidable. The unexpected medical costs that follow only serve to add additional complications to an already difficult situation. I believe that ensuring such costs do not harm a consumer's ability to borrow money and purchase goods is a matter of basic fairness. That is why last year I introduced legislation that would require consumer reporting agencies to remove any information related to fully paid or settled medical debt from a consumer's credit report within 45 days. The Medical Debt Responsibility Act would ensure that consumers are not arbitrarily penalized by medical debt once it is fully settled or paid. Unfortunately, the Financial Services Committee has yet to even consider the issue of medical debt during this Congress. Today, on behalf of the thousands of our nation's citizens struggling with medical debt, I call on Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling to hold a hearing on this legislation, so we can take the good work of the CFPB forward and provide our nation's consumers with important relief." Waters' legislation, The Medical Debt Responsibility Act of 2013 (H.R. 1767) would require consumer reporting agencies to remove any information related to fully paid or settled medical debt from a consumer's credit report within 45 days. Under current law, this type of information is generally retained on a credit report for seven years. The legislation recognizes that medical debt is unique and therefore does not impose an arbitrary dollar cap on the amount of medical debt that can be removed from a credit report. According to a study by the Commonwealth Fund, medical bill problems or accrued medical debt affects roughly 73 million working-age adults in this country. ###
05.20.2014	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, reiterated her strong support for the Export-Import Bank and the quick renewal of its charter. Waters' comments come in reaction to remarks made by Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling during a speech today at the conservative Heritage Foundation, in which he once again expressed his longstanding opposition to the Bank. "I am disappointed, but not surprised, by Chairman Hensarling's statements disparaging the Export-Import Bank and the countless businesses that rely on it to grow, create jobs and compete in the global economy. The Chairman often decries the Bank as an example of ‘crony capitalism.' I challenge him to call the thousands of hard-working small businesses owners across the country ‘crony capitalists.' They are investing in their businesses, creating jobs and, with help from the Ex-Im Bank, expanding into foreign markets. Take Steven Wilburn, a veteran and Purple Heart recipient who used Ex-Im to create a thriving business that manufactures green energy equipment. Or Michael Boyle, the Republican Navy Veteran who has relied on the Bank to help his global energy business grow by 400 percent. Tell it to the 1.2 million private sector employees whose jobs have been created or sustained as a result of the Bank over the past 5 years. None of these people are so-called "crony capitalists." They are hardworking small business owners that form the backbone of our economy. They are Americans. According to the Bank, last year nearly 90 percent of total transactions went to a record number of small businesses. The Bank doesn't cost taxpayers a dime and in 2013 generated a record profit for taxpayers of more than $1 billion. The uncertainty surrounding the Bank's September 30 expiration is already costing American businesses winnable contracts to foreign competitors. The Export-Import Bank's charter has been renewed by Congress 15 times with little or no controversy, under both Republican and Democratic Administrations. Before using words like ‘cronyism,' I would urge the Chairman to remember that Ex-Im renewal is actually about creating jobs, growing small businesses and supporting the work of everyday Americans." As a result of the refusal of Chairman Hensarling to even hold a hearing on Ex-Im's reauthorization Ranking Member Waters held a panel discussion in April on the importance of reauthorization of the Bank's charter to create and sustain American jobs. The event featured the perspectives of a diverse array of business owners, large and small, unions and key members of Congress. To view the webcast of the panel, click here. ###
05.16.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today marking the 60th Anniversary of Brown vs. Board of Education, which declared all laws establishing segregated schools unconstitutional. The anniversary falls on tomorrow, May 17. "The Brown vs. Board of Education decision was a major step toward education equality in the United States, and launched a Civil Rights movement that was a turning point for our country. I am reminded of heroes like Justice Thurgood Marshall, James Meredith, the Little Rock Nine, the lawyers who fought in the courtroom, and the many civil rights activists who risked their lives to fight for equality. But while the decision changed the law of the land, it didn't immediately change the reality of education inequality in America. "Even during the time directly following the court decision, all states and localities did not follow the precedent set by the ruling. This played out in national news across the country and was clearly seen at Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas when a group of black students, known as the Little Rock Nine, was blocked by the National Guard from entering the school, under orders from then Governor Orval Faubus. "Over the years, various federal and state laws and initiatives have been introduced in an effort to improve education, yet today, there is still more work that can be done to ensure that every child has equal access to a world-class education. Sixty years later, we are still fighting for access to affordable early childhood education and higher education and for the reduction of dropout rates. Additionally, the school-to-prison pipeline is not merely a theory, but is a reality for many of our students across the country and is hindering them from access to educational opportunities. We must also adequately prepare our students for entering the workforce as our students compete in a global economy with individuals from around the world. "On this important anniversary, let us remember the words of Justice Thurgood Marshall, who argued this case as a NAACP chief counsel, "None of us got where we are solely by pulling ourselves up by our bootstraps. We got here because somebody… bent down and helped us pick up our boots." Today, let us never forget the message of Brown as we work to ensure equal access to education, a strong workforce, and an open door to opportunity for all." ###
05.09.2014	As a longstanding supporter of efforts to prohibit housing discrimination and promote fair housing choice, today Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), top Democrat on the Financial Services Committee, called on the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to assert that continued investment in high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods is consistent with its goal of furthering fair housing. In a strongly worded letter to HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan, the Ranking Member expressed her support for HUD's recently proposed Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) Rule, but stipulated a "serious concern." As currently written, she stated, the proposed rule's language can be interpreted to mean that investing in high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods is inconsistent with the AFFH mandate. Congresswoman Waters urged Secretary Donovan to pay close attention to the final rule, expressing her view that it "must clearly state that continued investment in high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods is affirmatively furthering fair housing." The rule is being promulgated pursuant to the Fair Housing Act (FHA), which helps to ensure that all people have equal access to housing opportunities by prohibiting housing discrimination based on class and by requiring HUD to take steps in actively overcoming historic patterns of segregation. The letter reads, "I do not believe that it is the intent of the FHA to preclude housing providers from continuing efforts to revitalize high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods where federal investment is needed most. It is essential that the final rule recognize that affirmatively furthering fair housing has to, in addition to its efforts to reduce racially and ethnically segregated neighborhoods, also include devoting resources to improve high-poverty, high-minority communities by preserving and improving affordable housing. This notion must clearly be reinforced throughout the final rule, including in the definitions of "affirmatively furthering fair housing" and "fair housing choice," the statement of purpose, and in the Consolidated and PHA Plans in defining how a housing provider is affirmatively furthering fair housing." The letter comes on the heels of a similar call by Waters, Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN) and 45 of their colleagues, expressing support for the swift enactment of a final rule.Full text of the letter is below. A signed copy can be viewed here. Secretary Shaun Donovan U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 451 7th Street, SW Washington, D.C. 20410 Dear Secretary Donovan, As you know, I am a strong supporter of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, The Fair Housing Act (FHA), and its dual goals to: (1) prohibit housing discrimination on the basis of certain protected classes of people; and, (2) require HUD's program participants to take steps in actively overcoming historic patterns of segregation and to promote fair housing choice by affirmatively furthering fair housing. The FHA helps to ensure that all people have equal access to housing opportunities. We must work together to ensure that families in all communities have equal access to the vital community resources that help children, individuals, and families thrive. HUD's recently proposed Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing (AFFH) Rule will undoubtedly improve communities' obligation to affirmatively further fair housing. I applaud the Department on the issuance of this proposed rule in an effort to provide stronger guidance to grantees regarding their obligation to affirmatively further fair housing. I recently joined several of my colleagues in sending you a letter dated May 8, 2014, expressing support for the swift enactment of a final rule. As an addendum to the sentiments in that letter, I would like to stipulate a serious concern that I have with the proposed rule as it is currently written. In particular, I am concerned that language used throughout the proposed rule can be interpreted to mean that investing in high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods is inconsistent with the AFFH mandate. I urge you to pay close attention to this issue as you draft the AFFH final rule. The AFFH Final Rule must clearly state that continued investment in high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods is affirmatively furthering fair housing. Language used throughout the proposed rule frequently refers to reducing or ending racially and ethnically concentrated neighborhoods of poverty. This could be implied to mean that the use of federal funds to invest in high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods, including participation in various place-based initiatives, would be inconsistent with a grantee's obligation to affirmatively further fair housing. I do not believe that it is the intent of the FHA to preclude housing providers from continuing efforts to revitalize high-poverty, high-minority neighborhoods where federal investment is needed most. It is essential that the final rule recognize that affirmatively furthering fair housing has to, in addition to its efforts to reduce racially and ethnically segregated neighborhoods, also include devoting resources to improve high-poverty, high-minority communities by preserving and improving affordable housing. This notion must clearly be reinforced throughout the final rule, including in the definitions of "affirmatively furthering fair housing" and "fair housing choice," the statement of purpose, and in the Consolidated and PHA Plans in defining how a housing provider is affirmatively furthering fair housing. Thank you for your consideration and your commitment to the FHA. I look forward to working with you to strengthen our nation's efforts in prohibiting housing discrimination and in creating and promoting strong communities of opportunity and equality. Sincerely, Maxine Waters ###
05.09.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) today announced the appointment of Twaun Samuel as her new Chief of Staff. Mr. Samuel has held several positions throughout his five years of service on Rep. Waters' staff, most recently as Senior Counsel and Legal Fellow/Intern Coordinator on the House Financial Services Committee, of which Waters is the Ranking Member. In Waters' personal office, Samuel served as Legal Fellow, Legislative Assistant and Legislative Counsel. As Legislative Counsel, Twaun managed Congresswoman Waters' Judiciary Committee portfolio, which included criminal justice, voting rights, intellectual property, copyright law, immigration, and telecommunications. Twaun also oversaw outreach to various national organizations and public interest groups in effort to advance Rep. Waters' public policy agenda, as well as her advocacy on behalf of women-and-minority-owned businesses. Congresswoman Waters issued the following statement upon her announcement: He has a unique understanding of the constituent needs of the personal office and a formidable grasp of the legislative process and how policy is shaped in Congress. I'm confident that Twaun's work ethic and commitment to public service will help me tremendously as I continue my work on behalf of the people of the 43rd District of California." As Rep. Waters' Legislative Counsel, Mr. Samuel managed the Congresswoman's vast portfolio of issues under the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet. He completed all of Rep. Waters' filings before the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Department of Justice's (DOJ) review of Comcast Corporation's merger with NBC Universal. Following the merger's approval, he worked closely with Rep. Waters' in drafting her signature Federal Communications Commission (FCC) reform legislation, the FCC Merger Act of 2011. He also worked with Waters to draft amendments the Congresswoman offered to major bills such as the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA), the FCC Process Reform Act, and the America Invents Act – legislation that overhauled the U.S. patent system. As Senior Counsel on the House Financial Services Committee under the leadership of Ranking Member Waters, Twaun managed the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee and coordinated Democratic messaging and amendment strategy during committee hearings and markups. In this capacity, Mr. Samuel covered issues regarding "Too Big to Fail" which included: systemic risk, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC), federal supervision and orderly resolution of systemic firms, and DOJ financial fraud investigations. Mr. Samuel also recruited, managed, and supervised interns and fellows under the committee's internship program. In addition, Twaun launched Ranking Member Waters' successful Financial Services Panel Series, a moderated public panel discussion between industry stakeholders, public interest advocates, and academics of opposing viewpoints on a range of issues and regulatory challenges facing the financial services industry. Mr. Samuel holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Studies from the Croft Institute of International Studies (University of Mississippi) where he studied Political and Economic Transitions, with a regional focus in Latin America. Twaun completed a semester of studies at the Universidad Autonóma de Querétaro (UAQ) Mexico where he examined the nation's political history, all as Mexico was in the midst of its significant 2006 presidential election cycle. Following his studies at Croft, Twaun earned a J.D. from the University of Mississippi School of Law. Twaun is a 111th Congress John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Staff Fellow and 2009 Truman National Security Scholar. ###
05.09.2014	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), a longtime advocate for international peace, justice and human rights, released the following statement condemning the April 15th kidnapping of some 270 female Nigerian students from the Government Secondary School in the town of Chibok in Borno State, Nigeria: "I am outraged by the abduction last month of some 270 innocent schoolgirls who were taken from their boarding school in Chibok, Borno State, Nigeria. My thoughts and prayers remain with these students and their families for their immediate safe return. "In a video message released this week, I was horrified to watch Abubakar Shekau, the leader of the extreme Islamist group Boko Haram, admit he was responsible for this horrendous act. It was painful to hear him refer to these young innocent girls as "slaves" and threaten "to sell them in the market." According to media reports, Boko Haram has destroyed many Nigerian schools and killed dozens of students. Boko Haram continues to show an immoral disregard for the most fundamental of human rights. "No family should have to fear their children could be abducted and placed in the human trafficking market to be sold, raped or killed. Boko Haram has to be stopped and their leader Abubakar Shekau must be apprehended and brought to justice. The Nigerian government should use all means necessary to find these girls and return them to their families. "The Nigerian government must also accept, with great gratitude, assistance from the United States government and other allied nations. I am encouraged that the U.S. government is already providing counterterrorism support and logistics to Nigerian investigators. I have also joined colleagues in sending a letter to President Obama urging the Department of State to use every avenue possible to assist in the immediate recovery of the missing girls and to support the welfare and safety of all women and girls in Nigeria. I urge our international partners to join with us until these girls are safely reunited with their families and Boko Haram is brought to justice." ###
05.07.2014	Student, teachers and parents from across California's 43rd Congressional District joined Congresswoman Maxine Waters at the Lawndale Community Center on Friday, May 2, where she announced this year's Congressional Art Competition winners. An independent panel of art instructors and professional artists volunteered their time and expertise to choose four winners from 41 entries, the largest number of submissions ever received. Since its inception in 1982, over 650,000 high school students have participated in the nation-wide Congressional Art Competition, emphasizing the importance of art programs in our schools. "I applaud and celebrate all of the students, their teachers and parents who submitted projects to this year's competition," said Congresswoman Waters. "We know with budget cutbacks in our schools it often falls to the parents, and sometimes even to the teachers, to come out of their pockets to purchase the supplies needed to teach and to create art. Anyone involved in our young people's lives in a positive way is to be commended for doing whatever it takes to encourage them and nurture their talents." The first place prize winner is Ana Castellon of Inglewood High School (Inglewood), where she is taught by Richard Bermejo. Ana's artwork entitled "Reflecting the Past" will be displayed in the Nation's Capitol for one year and she will receive two complimentary, round-trip plane tickets to Washington D.C. for the official unveiling ceremony. The unveiling of the winning pieces will take place June 25th at the U.S. Capitol and will feature all the winners from the various congressional districts in the country. The second place award was presented to Nhi Nguyen of Leuzinger High School (Lawndale), where she is taught by Kyle Jennings. Nhi's "Self Discovery" piece will be showcased in the Congresswoman's Washington D.C. office throughout the year. The third place winning piece "Micky" is by Adriana Trujillo, who studies at Leuzinger High School (Lawndale) and is also taught by Kyle Jennings. The fourth place prize for the piece "Books and Nefertiti" was awarded to Natalie McDonald, of Vistamar High School (El Segundo), where she is taught by Emily Chandler. Adriana and Natalie's artwork will be on display for the next year in Congresswoman Waters' Los Angeles office. ### L to R: Kyle Jennings (Art instructor of 3rd Place winner Adriana Trujillo); Nhi Nguyen (2nd Place);Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43); Ana Castellon (1st Place); and Natalie McDonald (4th Place). Group picture of all participating students and their art submissions. First place winning art piece entitled "Reflecting the Past," Ana Castellon (1st Place) of Inglewood High School.
05.05.2014	At the Hawthorne Memorial Center, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, welcomed approximately 250 women entrepreneurs and business owners to her "Women in Business Roundtable" on Friday, April 25. Experts from Federal, state and local agencies and the private sector were present to provide attendees with valuable information to help their entrepreneurial dreams become a reality. This was the second roundtable held by Congresswoman Waters following a successful gathering in another 43rd district city. "I truly appreciate all of the participants and chambers of commerce that came out to give women a helping hand in starting up, or expanding their businesses," said Congresswoman Waters. "Today, women business owners play an important role in our economy and that's why supporting them is so important here in California and across our country. We must continue to seize opportunities to break new ground for women in both the public and private sector." There were representatives from eight different government agencies and organizations which made presentations to assist small business owners. Also present were women from successful private sector businesses such as Nancy Mercolino, President and Owner of Ceilings Plus. Nancy founded Ceilings Plus twenty-one years ago by merging two small companies with revenues of less than $1 million. She has grown Ceilings Plus into a company currently worth over $30 million. Another successful owner was Frances Jones who opened her first McDonald's restaurant in Ojai, California in 1984. Today, she has a total of four other restaurants spread throughout the Greater Los Angeles area. Both Jones and Mercolino shared their stories for overcoming hurdles as a business owner. Representatives from the following agencies were also in attendance: the Governor's Office of Business and Economic Development (GO-Biz), Pacific Asian Consortium in Employment (PACE), Small Business Development Center at El Camino College, The Vermont Slauson Economic Development Corporation, U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA), local chambers of commerce, and more. Attached photograph: Lisa Fimiani, Executive Director, Friends of Ballona Wetlands; Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43); and Day Scott, Nature Education Coordinator, Wonders of Wetlands Program. ###
05.05.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) urged expansion of the TIGER program – a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies like Metro in Los Angeles County – in a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation and Housing and Urban Development Appropriations. A previous TIGER grant helped to accelerate the construction of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor, which will serve the Congresswoman's district. The Congresswoman's letter urges full funding of the President's request for $1.25 billion for TIGER in fiscal year 2015, as part of an expanded TIGER program that provides $5 billion over 4 years. A total of 144 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: "We write to request that you invest in our nation's transportation infrastructure by fully funding the President's request for $1.25 billion for the TIGER program in fiscal year 2015. "TIGER – formally known as Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery – is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states, local governments, and transit agencies. The TIGER program funds innovative projects that will have a significant impact on the nation, a region, or a metropolitan area. TIGER projects are required to deliver benefits in five critical national objectives, including safety, economic competitiveness, state of good repair, livability, and environmental sustainability. "Investment in transportation infrastructure is crucial for economic recovery. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimates that we will need to invest $3.6 trillion by 2020 in order to improve the nation's public infrastructure. Furthermore, investment in infrastructure creates jobs for American workers building and repairing our nation's highways, railways, ports, and mass transit. "The President requested $1.25 billion for TIGER in fiscal year 2015, as part of an expanded TIGER program that provides $5 billion over 4 years. This expanded TIGER program will create jobs, encourage innovation, and modernize transportation infrastructure for the 21st century. "We therefore urge you to provide full funding of the President's request for $1.25 billion for TIGER grants in fiscal year 2015." ###
04.29.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding relocation of Toyota's North American Headquarters in Torrance to North Dallas (Plano), Texas: "I am deeply disappointed by Toyota's announcement that it will relocate its North American Headquarters to Plano, Texas. I would have hoped Toyota would have given local officials the opportunity to demonstrate there is no better place for Toyota than the South Bay. I have yet to hear specific reasons about Toyota's decision and it remains unclear how long this plan has been in the making and why. "My thoughts are with the 3,000 employees and families employed at its financial services and motor sales arms in Torrance that will be affected. These job losses will not only negatively impact the hardworking employees, but the entire community as well. Toyota has been headquartered in Torrance since 1982 and has had a significant presence in the Los Angeles regional economy for nearly 60 years. "Our region possesses an outstanding workforce with the education, skills, and experience necessary to appeal to companies like Toyota. Creating good-paying jobs for our communities and growing our economy remains one of my top priorities in Congress. I look forward to continuing to work with state and local officials for opportunities to retain and attract businesses that create jobs in Torrance and throughout the South Bay region." ###
04.29.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in response to today's GAO report on the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR). The study was conducted as the result of a 2012 request by Congresswoman Waters, Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Reps. Brad Miller (D-NC) and Luis Gutierrez (D-IL). Waters released the following statement: "I'm troubled by the recent GAO report, which shows that just as the Department of Justice deliberately overstated its investigation and prosecution of mortgage fraud cases, regulators claimed six billion dollars of settlement payments that never truly occurred. According to the report, regulators used a nonsensical crediting system for the largest portion of the settlement, meant to provide additional foreclosure relief activities to victims of unscrupulous practices. And the report found that banks were able to meet the requirements of the settlement without making any changes to their existing foreclosure activities. I'm concerned with these findings by GAO, which also show that the settlement was reached without adequate investigation into the harms committed by the servicers. Many of the files did not contain complete data, making it impossible to know whether borrowers were disqualified from the possibility of the greatest cash payouts. Only a thorough review of poorly maintained or incomplete servicer files could have verified whether payments were commensurate with the harms committed. I continue to urge bank regulators to review and release loan level data to the entire eligible population of the Independent Foreclosure Review, so that individual borrowers may review their servicing files and decide whether it would be appropriate to file their own claims against servicers. In November 2013, my office requested that regulators make a comprehensive public report relating to the operation and settlement of the Independent Foreclosure Review. Congress and the public have yet to receive such a report. More than a year ago, I called on Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling to exercise the Committee's oversight responsibility and conduct a hearing on the IFR process. I remain disappointed that thus far he has refused to do so. Given the 4.4 million borrowers that may have been adversely affected, I urge him to reconsider this request. The information from the Independent Foreclosure Review is critical to reforming the mortgage servicing industry, which has been allowed to operate without adequate controls for protecting borrowers since the peak of the foreclosure crisis. Regulators must act immediately to disclose data from the review, reform broken practices at the servicers, and ensure that borrowers receive the information they need to right these wrongs." Ranking Member Waters has closely monitored the IFR since the inception of the program in early 2011, and she has raised numerous questions about the design, execution, efficacy and fairness of the process. In January of 2013, she expressed concern about the abrupt announcement of the blanket settlement, questioning how the settlement amount was determined and how recovery amounts will be distributed to eligible households. She sent a letter to then-Federal Reserve Chair Ben Bernanke and Thomas Curry, comptroller of the currency, requesting greater transparency in the IFR termination process. She also called for inclusion of provisions in the final settlement identifying a minimum amount for principal reductions, an escalation process for homeowners, and the prevention of foreclosures for the 4.4 million borrowers still in their homes. In February of 2013, Waters formally called on Financial Services Committee Chair Jeb Hensarling to hold a hearing on the termination of the IFR process. To date, a hearing has not been held. In November 2013, Waters joined Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD) and Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-MA) to follow up on assurances that regulators would release a public report on the details of the IFR. She also introduced legislation to reform the use of consultants in banking enforcement consent orders. The GAO report can be viewed here.
04.28.2014	Following the news that members of the Senate Banking Committee have reached an agreement on legislation to reauthorize the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA), Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, applauded their progress and lamented the lack of action in the House of Representatives. Waters has been outspoken in her support for a TRIA's renewal, and led a panel discussion on its importance of the program earlier this year. The legislation was announced today by Senators Chuck Schumer, Mike Johanns, Dean Heller and Mark Kirk. Waters released the following statement. "I am encouraged by the news that leaders on the Senate Banking Committee have reached agreement on legislation to extend the critically important Terrorism Risk Insurance Act (TRIA). I applaud these Senators for taking this important step to advance the conversation on TRIA. This progress is even more important given the House Financial Services Committee Chairman's refusal to bring an extension of the program forward thus far. For more than a decade, TRIA has supported critical economic growth by ensuring access to terrorism coverage for our largest venues, businesses and employers. It is a job creator and economic stimulant. This message is underscored by the diverse array of TRIA's policyholders and beneficiaries that have expressed support for the program – including shopping malls, hotels, sports leagues, insurers, lenders, and developers. They all see TRIA as critical to creating jobs, increasing economic growth and providing certainty in the market. In the Financial Services Committee, there are two pieces of legislation that would achieve these goals by cleanly extending TRIA over the long-term. Both have bipartisan support and both could pass the Committee today. Despite the Chairman's refusal to take action on TRIA, I am heartened to hear some key members of House Republican leadership support the program. It seems some may understand that TRIA must remain in place to ensure a speedy recovery after an attack, to avoid market disruptions, and to protect schools, jobs and businesses. But just as important, we must realize that now is not the time to be having a debate over alternatives or dramatic changes to TRIA." TRIA is strongly supported by a broad coalition of businesses and organizations representing a wide array of industries, including construction, manufacturing, retail, transportation, real estate, sporting and entertainment. Entities from the National Football League to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to the National Association of Realtors have lauded the program's importance. ###
04.28.2014	At today's press conference to discuss, among other issues, the need for action to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, underscored the importance of a quick renewal of the Bank's charter to create and sustain American jobs. At the press conference, Waters and Financial Services Committee member Rep. Denny Heck (D-WA) talked about yesterday's panel discussion on the importance of reauthorization of the Bank's charter to create and sustain American jobs. The event featured the perspectives of a diverse array of business owners, large and small, unions and key members of Congress. To view the webcast of the panel, click here. Waters remarks are below. As prepared for delivery: Thank you, Whip Hoyer. I know I speak for all of us who are strong supporters of the Export-Import Bank when I thank you for the central role you played in passing the Bank's reauthorization last Congress, and for your ongoing efforts to ensure the Bank's charter doesn't expire. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, I want to express my appreciation for making the Ex-Im Bank a core component of House Democrats' "Make It In America" plan for jobs and competitiveness. I was very pleased that Whip Hoyer joined me and Democratic members of the Financial Services Committee yesterday on a forum I organized to discuss the important role the Bank plays in helping to create and sustain U.S. jobs. We heard from a diverse array of business owners who have been able to sell their products overseas, expand their businesses and create jobs because of the assistance provided by the Export-Import Bank. These companies are the backbone of our economy, and the Bank strengthens them in that important role. The statistics speak for themselves – over the past five years, the Bank has supported 1.2 million private sector jobs. And just last year, Ex-Im provided more than $11 billion dollars in support to the manufacturing sector alone. Although the Bank's programs provide essential support to business of all sizes, the majority of the Bank's authorizations go to small businesses, which made up nearly 90 percent of total transactions last year. And finally, the Bank doesn't cost taxpayers a dime – it's self-sustaining and last year generated a record profit for taxpayers of more than $1 billion dollars that went directly into the U.S. Treasury. But while the Bank's success is clear, a number of far-right Republicans believe that the U.S. should abolish the Bank. Doing so would undercut U.S. businesses, resulting in lost jobs and depressed economic growth. The September 30 expiration of the Export-Import Bank's charter is rapidly approaching. And in the Financial Services Committee, Republicans have not even scheduled a hearing to begin the important work on reauthorization. Today, the Democratic Party is once again calling on Republicans to end the uncertainty for American businesses and reauthorize Ex-Im quickly in order to support American jobs and exports. As we learned at yesterday's panel, our foreign competitors are already using this uncertainty to win contracts that would otherwise be going to U.S. businesses. At this critical time for our nation's economic recovery, we cannot afford another self-inflicted wound. ###
04.28.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will host a public forum on the National Security Administration (NSA) on Thursday, April 24 from 7pm - 9pm. The forum will take place at Loyola Marymount University's Ahmanson Auditorium, and is designed for individuals to hear both sides of the NSA debate in regards to governmental surveillance and civil liberties. Who: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Gabe Rottman, American Civil Liberties Union, Legislative Counsel/Policy Advisor Julia Angwin, ProPublica Magazine, Senior Reporter, Author of "Dragnet Nation" What: Public Forum on the National Security Administration When: Thursday, April 24, 2014 7pm - 9pm Where: Loyola Marymount University (Ahmanson Auditorium) 1 LMU Drive Los Angeles, CA 90045 ###
04.28.2014	At today's Financial Services Committee hearing with regulatory officials to discuss "government red tape," Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, applauded regulators for putting the financial system on more stable footing after the worst economic crisis in a generation, and criticized the majority for continuing to push an ideologically-driven agenda focused on deregulation. Waters also criticized Republicans for continuing to avoid real, serious issues that need the immediate attention of the Committee, issues that grow our economy and create jobs. These include the reauthorization of the Export-Import Bank and extending the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program, both of which are critical to ensuring certainty for businesses. Waters pointed out these measures have widespread, bipartisan support – including Republican members of the Financial Services Committee. Her full statement is below. As prepared for delivery: Thank you Mr. Chairman. Just days before Congress is set to leave town for a two week Congressional Recess, here we are again, attacking regulators for their efforts to repair the damage caused by the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. This hearing is nothing more than the latest chance for the majority to air its ideologically driven, deregulatory agenda. And it is a continuation of the Republican quest for extreme and unreasonable cost-benefit requirements – which do nothing more than undercut the ability of our regulators to do their jobs. How quickly my colleagues on the other side of the aisle have forgotten the loss of millions of American jobs and trillions of dollars of household wealth caused by inadequate regulation. Mr. Chairman, the simple fact is that the majority's cost-benefit requirements would impose additional costs on our regulators and expand government bureaucracy. I find it ironic that we are participating in a hearing to examine government "red tape," while many of my Republican colleagues are pushing measures that would only serve to increase it. It is unfortunate that this Committee continues to consider these measures – which are becoming a not-so-veiled effort to roll back the significant accomplishments of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act – while ignoring a number of important policy matters that need our attention now. We know the crisis was caused by dramatic failures of corporate governance and risk-management at large, globally interconnected financial firms. We also know that excessive borrowing, risky investments, and a lack of transparency throughout the financial system put us on the path to crisis. Although Washington had a role to play – it certainly was not because regulators erred on the side of over regulation. Despite their collective failure to see the crisis coming before it was too late – the financial regulatory agencies represented before us today should be commended for their effort that has already put our financial system on more stable footing. Regulators have made important progress by enhancing risk monitoring and heightening capital standards at the largest, most complex banks and non-bank financial companies. They have also increased cooperation and information sharing among regulators of banks and non-bank financial companies. And they have enhanced the transparency and protections afforded to consumers and investors. Our regulators have also taken action to ease the regulatory burden for small banks and financial institutions by providing targeted relief. I am looking forward to what the witnesses will say about actions to continue helping these small and community-based entities. As the number of legislative days continues to dwindle, I sincerely hope that we can come together on the important issues that merit our serious attention. Rather than accuse "Washington" of restricting "economic freedom" we should be taking up bills that grow our economy and create good jobs for U.S. workers. Mr. Chairman, this includes reauthorizing the Export-Import Bank and extending the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program. Acting on these important measures now is imperative to ensure businesses have the certainty they need to invest in the economy. They both help create and sustain American jobs – and have widespread, bipartisan support – including a number of Republican members of this Committee. These are issues that desperately need our attention. And while we know they need to be addressed very soon – this Committee has thus far simply refused to do so. Thank you, I yield back. ###
04.28.2014	In a room full of representatives of banks, non-profits, community advocacy organizations, elected officials and volunteers, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), top Democrat on the Financial Services Committee, underscored the importance of community banks, minority and women-owned financial institutions, and Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) to low and moderate-income individuals and communities. Yesterday, Waters spoke at the Annual Shareholders meeting of Clearinghouse CDFI, a local, mission-based community development lender. Her remarks focused on the importance of CDFIs and minority-owned depository institutions, as well as her work to strengthen them in the aftermath of the economic crisis. She also discussed a number of important federal initiatives in which she has taken a leadership role. These include efforts that evaluate bank performance in meeting the needs of all borrowers, consumer financial protection measures, and the establishment of the Offices of Women and Minority Inclusion (OMWI), which monitor the number of federal contracts going to women and minority-owned businesses. Waters said, "I believe that CDFIs and minority-owned depository institutions are instrumental to our community's success. Given that most are characterized by local ownership, local control, and local decision making, these community institutions foster economic growth and help to ensure that the financial resources of the local community are put to work on its behalf. Community development financial institutions help build wealth and keep it inside the community – something that is critically important to ensure that the economic opportunity that is facilitated by these entities is anchored in the areas where it is created." Clearinghouse CDFI addresses unmet credit needs in California and Nevada by bridging the financing gap between conventional lending standards and the needs of low-income families and communities. To date, the Clearinghouse CDFI has funded a total of $959 million in loans for 1,510 projects in distressed communities, benefiting over 764,000 individuals each year. Clearinghouse CDFI loans have created or retained over 9,850 permanent and construction jobs and developed or rehabilitated 9 million square feet. ###
04.22.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will host a Women in Business Roundtable on Friday, April 25 from 8am -11am. The second annual roundtable will take place at the Hawthorne Memorial Center, and is designed to provide small business owners and entrepreneurs interested in starting a small business with the necessary tips and tools to help their business succeed. "According to the U.S. Census Bureau, California is one of just four states with at least 500,000 women-owned businesses and leads the United States with 1,039,208," said Congresswoman Waters. "This roundtable is a great way for women business owners to network with state, federal and local representatives to earn valuable information to help their businesses grow and flourish." In addition to presentations from relevant government agencies and organizations, event attendees will receive information on access to capital, discover how to make their business more eco-friendly, and much more. WHO: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Participants from the following agencies and organizations: • U.S. Small Business Administration • U.S. General Services Administration • Center for International Trade Development • Gardena Valley Chamber of Commerce • Harbor City/Harbor Gateway Chamber of Commerce • Pacific Asian Consortium in Employment (PACE) Women's Business Center • Small Business Development Center @ El Camino College • South Bay Environmental Services Center • Vermont Slauson Economic Development Corporation • And more WHAT: Women in Business Roundtable WHEN: Friday, April 25,2014 8am – 11am WHERE: Hawthorne Memorial Center 3901 W El Segundo Blvd. Hawthorne, CA 9025 NOTE: The roundtable is free to the public, however space is limited. Attendees are asked to RSVP by Thursday, April 24, 2014. RSVP by email:CA43RSVP@mail.house.gov or by telephone at (323) 757-8900 X 19. ###
04.17.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) drew a standing-room-only crowd for an Emergency Preparedness Workshop held at the George Nakano Theater in Torrance on Saturday, April 12. The event was designed to increase disaster awareness and preparedness planning for constituents, their families and neighborhoods. Experts from federal, state and local government were on hand to answer questions and help people get prepared in the event of a man-made or natural disaster. "All of us who call Southern California home know that scientists have predicted that it's not a question of if, but a question of when we will experience a major earthquake," said Congresswoman Waters. "The recent 5.1 magnitude earthquake in La Habra, the 8.2 earthquake in Chile, and the 9.0 "mega-thrust" earthquake in Fukushima, Japan, with its devastating aftermath, should all serve as wake-up calls to get ourselves prepared." "This workshop gave constituents the opportunity to hear from experts in emergency preparedness, including the latest on inter-government cooperation plans. They also received information on how they can prepare themselves for tsunami's, hurricanes, brush fires, and potential man-made disasters," added Congresswoman Waters. The government agencies and organizations in attendance at the workshop included the Torrance Police, Fire and Office of Emergency Services, Lomita City Manager's Office, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), American Red Cross, California Governor's Office of Emergency Services, and the L.A. County Office of Emergency Management. ###
04.16.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters' office is now accepting submissions for the 2014 Congressional Art Competition. This annual competition celebrates the artistic spirit of high school students across the nation, offering them an opportunity to showcase their talent and compete to have their artwork displayed in the United States Capitol for a full year. Interested student artists must reside or attend a high school in the 43rd Congressional District to compete. This year's submission deadline is Monday, April 25, 2014 at 5:00 PM Pacific Standard Time. "Every year, the Congressional Art Competition affords the young artists of California's 43rd Congressional District with the opportunity to shine in our nation's capitol," said Congresswoman Waters. "I always enjoy this time of year and look forward to seeing the winner's artwork represent our dynamic district and California in the halls of the U.S. Capitol Building." A panel of renowned artists and art instructors selects the winning pieces, which are then displayed in the Capitol Building in Washington, D.C., Congresswoman Waters' office on Capitol Hill and her Los Angeles District office. Entries may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman Waters' Los Angeles office, located at 10124 South Broadway Suite 1, Los Angeles, CA 90003. The office is open Monday through Friday from 9:00am – 5:00pm. The competition is open to high school students only, however exceptions may be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students will be required to adhere to the rules of the competition and will need to submit all artwork with a corresponding student release form to the District office. The form and all guidelines regarding the competition can be found on Congresswoman Waters' website. For more information, please call (323) 757-8900. ###
04.11.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today in wake of the tragic bus crash in Northern California which involved Los Angeles-area students: "I extend my deepest condolences and prayers to the families, friends and loved ones of the victims from yesterday's horrific bus crash in Orland, about 100 miles north of Sacramento. I wish those injured a speedy recovery. "I am eagerly awaiting additional details from authorities on the exact cause of this crash, so we can learn if there is anything that can be done to prevent this type of accident from occurring again. "Today, however, we need to come together as a community and support everyone involved as they deal with this tragic loss." ###
04.08.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today on Equal Pay Day which symbolizes when, more than three months into the year, women's wages finally catch up to what men were paid in the previous year. According to U.S. Census Data, American women still earn only 77 cents to every dollar made by a full-time working man. "As we mark Equal Pay Day, I applaud President Obama's executive actions today to help combat pay discrimination and strengthen enforcement of equal pay laws for women. The President is signing an executive order prohibiting federal contractors from retaliating against employees who discuss their pay with each other. The President is also instructing the Labor Department to establish new regulations requiring federal contractors to submit compensation data paid to their employees, including data by sex and race. "Equal pay for equal work has been one of my top priorities dating back to the women's movement when I served on the Board of the Ms. Foundation for Women. I have worked with Gloria Steinem, Eleanor Smeal, Patsy Mink and many other women pioneers in the women's movement to highlight issues affecting working women, and to create and support public policy for equal treatment for all women. "Even with President Obama's executive action's today and enactment of the Lilly Ledbetter Act in 2009, there's still more work to do in Congress. We should pledge to advance the When Women Succeed, America Succeeds: An Economic Agenda for Women and Families unveiled last year by House Democrats. This economic agenda includes key women's issues like fair pay, work and family balance and childcare. The Paycheck Fairness Act is a critical component of When Women Succeed, America Succeeds. It is time to pass this long-overdue legislation to ensure equal pay for women in the workplace. The Paycheck Fairness Act would modernize the landmark Equal Pay Act by providing effective remedies to women who are not being paid equal wages for doing equal work. "Equal pay is not a woman's issue – it's a family issue. Today, American families increasingly rely on women's wages to make ends meet. To some, 23 cents on the dollar pay gap may seem small, but for the average American woman, this disparity amounts to lost income each year – income that could be used for food, clothes, rent and other basic necessities. I will continue to fight for fairness and equality for women in California and across America." ###
04.02.2014	Today, Government Sponsored Enterprise (GSE) Fannie Mae announced it has earned a fourth quarter profit of $6.5 billion in 2013 and will repay $7.2 billion to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in March. The payment will mean the company has returned $121.1 billion back to the taxpayers –returning even more than the $116.1 billion it received after being taken over by the government in 2008. This comes following a similar announcement by Freddie Mac late last year. Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement: "I am pleased with today's announcement that the GSEs will repay the taxpayer in full. In 2008, as the economy was reeling out of control, Democrats worked with a Republican Administration to staunch the bleeding by putting Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship. Doing so was controversial, but the action helped stabilize the housing market and provided Congress the opportunity to address the root causes of the subprime crisis. The GSEs return to profitability is a welcome sign for our economy, housing market and for the American taxpayers. The conservatorship of Fannie and Freddie has led to robust discussion about reform of the government-sponsored enterprises. Several proposals have already advanced this conversation. Next week, I will be discussing a proposal with Democratic members of the Financial Services Committee to reform the GSEs, which takes into consideration the changes in the marketplace since the crisis. This proposal will preserve the affordable 30-year, fixed rate mortgage and provide an explicit government guarantee that is paid for by industry. The proposal will also end the perverse incentives created by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's ownership structure of private shareholders. What it will not do is undercut our housing market, our middle class and our economic recovery, as the House Republican plan does. The PATH Act's irresponsible plan jeopardizes the availability of understandable mortgages like the 30-year fixed rate, severely limits FHA-backed mortgages and significantly harms community banks and credit unions by favoring the mega-banks. It would also repeal the protections against predatory lending in the Dodd-Frank law, inviting unscrupulous subprime lenders back into the market. I look forward to further discussion of these issues." ###
04.02.2014	Today, the Republican-led House of Representatives approved H.R. 3193, legislation that would undermine consumer protection by weakening the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's ability to be an effective, independent advocate for consumers. Democratic opposition was led by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. Waters condemned the legislation for making drastic changes that weaken the Bureau by, for example, eliminating the position of Director, ending CFPB's independent funding stream and making it easier for CFPB rulings to be overturned. The Ranking Member also highlighted the CFPB's remarkable record of success in just over two years, pointing to enforcement actions that have resulted in $3 billion being directly refunded to nearly 10 million consumers. Waters made the following comments. "Today's vote is just the latest chapter in a relentless Republican attack on consumer protection. Since opening its doors in 2011, the CFPB has gone to bat for those who have been subject to the deceptive practices of unscrupulous financial institutions. And though it has been immensely successful, Republicans have tried to undercut it in every way possible. The CFPB has ensured that all consumers have fair and transparent access to consumer financial products and services. It has written important mortgage rules that prevent lenders from engaging in the risky and irresponsible practices that led to the collapse of the housing market and fueled the 2008 global financial crisis. And it continues to go after industries and institutions that – for years – have not been held accountable for abusive and deceptive practices. The CFPB ensures that the tens of millions of consumers who interact with large consumer reporting agencies, debt collectors, payday lenders, and nonbanks originating mortgage loans – have an advocate in their corner. In fact – in fiscal year 2013, the CFPB was a party in 13 enforcement actions related to deceptive marketing, unlawful debt collection, discrimination on the basis of age, unlawful charging of fees, and fraudulent mortgage relief schemes, among other violations. But Republicans don't believe that we should have a consumer advocate in government – they would prefer these unscrupulous actors continue to take advantage of consumers without interference. And the simple fact is that H.R. 3193 would accomplish this goal – obstructing the CFPB's ability to protect consumers from deceptive marketing, unlawful debt collection, lending discrimination, overcharged fees and other illegal activity. The bill does so by undermining CFPB's leadership, ending its autonomy, and tying its funding to congressional appropriations, among other ways. In fact, Republicans have brought this bill to the floor claiming a cost savings. But they know that the only way a savings is realized is by slashing the budget of the CFPB – the sole agency charged with consumer financial protection. It's striking to listen to Republicans talk about the importance of "consumer protection," and then push a measure that is an obvious attempt to completely undermine and obstruct the CFPB's ability to protect consumers, students, seniors, and service members. If holding the Bureau accountable to its mission to protect American consumers truly is the Republican's goal, then why are considering a bill which is strongly opposed by more than a hundred organizations with long records of standing up for the interests of consumers? Instead of fighting for American consumers – Republicans would rather tear down this first-of-its-kind agency, which provides our citizens with an advocate at the highest levels of government that has the power to fight for them." This legislation is opposed by more than 100 organizations with long records of standing up for the interests of consumers, including the AFL-CIO, Americans for Financial Reform, the NAACP, U.S. PIRG, and the National Consumers Union. ###
04.02.2014	As Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen made her first appearance before Congress, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, congratulated Yellen on her historic appointment and record of accomplishment. Waters praised Yellen's support for bold action to stabilize the economy and underscored her belief that more needs to be done to address the unemployment crisis and income inequality. The Ranking Member urged Yellen's continued vigilance on the Fed's role in implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, to ensure financial stability and thereby, economic growth. The hearing, to discuss "Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy," was held before the House Financial Services Committee. Waters' full remarks are below. As prepared for delivery: Thank you Mr. Chairman. It is with great pleasure that I welcome you, Chair Yellen, to deliver your first-ever "Humphrey-Hawkins Act" report and testimony. Chair Yellen, your presence here today is both historic and well-deserved. Your record of distinguished service in government, academia and at the Federal Reserve make you uniquely qualified to navigate the considerable economic challenges that lie ahead. Your career in public service has been marked by high praise from economists and policymakers across the political spectrum. And in the face of an increasingly complex and interconnected global economy, your sound judgment on the risks to economic growth and stability has been validated time and time again. In the run up to the 2008 financial crisis, you accurately identified the looming risks to the economy and spoke up – telling colleagues, quote, "the possibilities of a credit crunch developing and of the economy slipping into recession seem all too real." When the crisis hit as you predicted – you pushed to challenge conventional thinking about the limits of monetary policy – and appropriately encouraged the Fed to act forcefully to stabilize the economy. Today, as mixed economic data seems to suggest that the recovery is still fragile – and millions of Americans continue to be unemployed – your willingness think "outside the box" is more important than ever. Like many of my colleagues, I remain concerned that more needs to be done to address the long-term unemployment crisis. As you know, 3.6 million Americans have been out of work for 27 weeks or more. And I fear that any further delay in addressing the problem could permanently damage the labor force and slow the economy's ability to grow over the long-term. As you weigh the costs, benefits and risks of further large-scale asset purchases, I hope you will press your colleagues on the Federal Open Market Committee to take into account the ongoing impact that this long-term unemployment crisis is having on millions of American families. Of course, the Republicans' ideologically-driven austerity agenda, protracted political debt ceiling brinksmanship, and failure to extend basic unemployment insurance benefits – has only made this situation more dire. Ironically, Republican unwillingness to provide the short-term fiscal assistance that the economy needs has put more pressure on the Federal Reserve to continue the same stimulative policies that many in their party oppose. Although monetary policy is indeed a powerful tool - the responsibility for putting the economy on more stable footing cannot – and should not – fall exclusively on the Federal Reserve. Congress too, must do its part. One issue on this front which I hope the Congress can work in concert with the Federal Reserve to address is the growing issue of income inequality. As you know, the gains accrued during the economic recovery have disproportionately benefitted the wealthiest in our society, leaving the middle class and the most vulnerable behind. I believe that the income gap is one of the most pressing threats to our economic potential. I look forward to your views on how we can work together to close it. Finally, there are a number of pending issues related to the Fed's role in implementing the Dodd-Frank Act. And although we won't be able to discuss all of them today, I hope to learn more about Fed's role in identifying and reducing systemic risks across the financial system. This includes your proposed rules to enhance prudential standards for large U.S. and foreign banking firms and your views on risks that continue to exist in the repo markets. As the 2008 financial crisis made all too clear – growth and prosperity are inextricably linked to financial stability – and therefore your vigilance on these matters is critically important. Chair Yellen, thank you again for being with us today. I yield back the balance of my time. ###
04.02.2014	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released a comprehensive legislative proposal to reform the housing finance market. Known as the Housing Opportunities Move the Economy (HOME) Forward Act of 2014, the legislation ends Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and creates a new, cooperative-owned securities issuer. For months, Waters has been working with her Committee colleagues, outside stakeholders, and consumer and affordable housing advocates to craft a measure that ends the incentives created by the ownership structure of the government-sponsored enterprises' (GSEs) while preserving the role of small financial institutions, providing a more flexible approach to placing credit risk in the markets, and ensuring access to affordable rental housing for low-income families. "Reforming a 10 trillion dollar housing finance market is an immense undertaking that must be carefully considered," said Congresswoman Waters. "Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's return to profitability and repayment of taxpayer dollars has led some to rightly speculate whether the enterprises need any reform at all. I believe that we have an opportunity to address some of the fundamental flaws of the current system, by ending the perverse incentives created by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's ownership structure and providing an explicit government guarantee that is paid for by industry." The draft bill furthers a conversation started by legislation released by Senators Bob Corker (R-TN) and Mark Warner (D-VA) and, more recently, Senators Tim Johnson (D-SD) and Mike Crapo (R-ID). The foundation of the HOME Forward Act is a number of principles for housing finance reform, released by Committee Democrats in 2013. They include maintaining the 30-year fixed rate mortgage, protecting taxpayers, ensuring transparency, stability and liquidity within a new market, and preventing disruptions to the U.S. housing market during a transition to a new finance system. In addition, the legislation will maintain access for all qualified borrowers that can sustain homeownership and ensure continued affordable rental housing. The HOME Forward Act establishes a new, lender-owned Mortgage Securities Cooperative that will be the single issuer of government-guaranteed securities and will be governed on a one-member, one-vote basis. The Act creates an explicit government guarantee, paid for by industry and used to capitalize a catastrophic insurance fund. It improves upon bipartisan proposals in the Senate by, for example, providing for credit risk sharing on a more flexible basis. Small financial institutions will have direct access to a "cash window" in order to preserve their access to the secondary market. And the legislation recognizes the important role of the National Affordable Housing Trust and Capital Magnet Funds, and fulsomely addresses the multi-family market. The HOME Forward Act would empower the government to provide for liquidity in the secondary mortgage market and ensure access to sustainable homeownership for creditworthy borrowers of all backgrounds and in all regions of the country. At the same time, it would appropriately price for risk, protect taxpayers and level the playing field for large and small banks. Waters added, "I am hopeful that this legislation will continue to move the conversation on housing finance reform forward. While there are differences, this legislation and the two bipartisan proposals in the Senate embrace a number of common themes. These include preserving the 30-year, fixed rate mortgage, protecting taxpayers from the costs of a housing downturn by establishing a strong new regulator, and ensuring that small and community financial institutions can participate in the new system." The legislative text can be found here. A topline summary can be found here. A detailed summary can be found here. A section-by-section of the legislation can be found here. ###
03.28.2014	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) called for security problems at LAX to be fixed immediately and urged that police officers be stationed at airport passenger screening checkpoints. She submitted her statement at a Congressional field hearing entitled "Lessons from the LAX Shooting: Preparing for and Responding to Emergencies at Airports," which was held at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) in her congressional district. The hearing was convened by the Transportation Security Subcommittee of the House Committee on Homeland Security in order to allow Members of Congress the opportunity to discuss reports released by both Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) and the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), and potential changes to emergency response protocols at airports nationwide, in the wake of the recent active-shooter incident at LAX. Remarks as prepared for delivery: "I want to begin by joining with my colleagues to honor the life and service of Gerardo Hernandez, the Transportation Security Officer (TSO) who was killed in the line of duty during the active shooter incident on November 1st. I offer my deepest condolences to his family and friends. I also honor all of the TSO's, LAX police officers, and other first responders who risked their lives to stabilize the situation and protect the public on that tragic day. "This hearing follows the release of two deeply disturbing reports on the November 1st incident, one by Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) and the other by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). I was appalled by what these reports revealed. "It is simply unacceptable that the emergency red phones and panic buttons at LAX were not in good working order. It is unacceptable that problems in coordination between various police and fire departments resulted in multiple command posts at different locations that did not unify for 45 minutes. It is unacceptable that when a TSA agent picked up a red phone and then dropped it in haste while trying to escape, the airport police operator who answered the call had no way to determine where the call originated. "It is simply unacceptable in this day and age that TSA and local police departments do not have fully compatible radio systems. Interoperability is a basic necessity for effective emergency response efforts. Police departments, fire fighters, and emergency medical personnel need to be able to talk to each other in an emergency. "These problems must be fixed immediately. There can be no excuse for them. There can be no discussion of a lack of time or a lack of money. As the LAWA report pointed out, LAWA spends about $125 million on security every year, and that does not include security related capital investments. With this level of investment, LAX should have a state-of-the-art emergency response system. "Our state has endured earthquakes, forest fires and floods. We have worked to develop disaster preparedness systems and to educate our citizens about what to do in the event of a catastrophe. If we are to expect our citizens to be prepared, we can expect no less of ourselves and our first response agencies. "In addition to these obvious problems, I am deeply concerned about the need for a consistent law enforcement presence at TSA passenger screening checkpoints, such as the one where Officer Hernandez was killed. "Following the shooting incident, I discussed airport security issues with leaders of the American Alliance of Airport Police Officers. Following our discussion, I wrote a letter to TSA Administrator John Pistole, in which I recommended that law enforcement officers be stationed within 300 feet of TSA passenger screening checkpoints. I have a copy of that letter with me today, and with the committee's consent, I will include it in the hearing record. "I was pleased to learn that TSA was responsive to the concerns that I raised and addressed this issue in its report. Specifically, TSA issued recommended standards calling for an increased presence of law enforcement officers "at high traffic locations within the airport such as peak travel times at checkpoints and ticket counters." However, TSA still does not require that law enforcement officers be consistently present at these checkpoints, even during the aforementioned "peak travel times." "The LAWA report, on the other hand, does not address this issue at all. LAWA implements a "flexible response" approach to security, which allows police officers to roam around the airport but does not require them to be present at the passenger screening checkpoints. The "fixed post" approach, by contrast, requires a police officer to be stationed at each passenger screening checkpoint. Airports and local police departments that support the "flexible response" approach have argued that this approach provides better visibility of police officers throughout the airport and less predictability for those who are intent on doing harm. "I realize that a consistent law enforcement presence at TSA screening checkpoints is a controversial issue. However, I would argue that the "fixed post" and "flexible response" methods are not mutually exclusive. A major airport like LAX can have police officers at every screening checkpoint and still have additional officers patrolling the airport. If the United States Capitol complex where we work in Washington, DC, can have police officers stationed at security checkpoints, as well as additional officers patrolling the vicinity, then so can LAX. "Some airports and local police departments have also argued that stationing a police officer at every screening checkpoint is too expensive. I find this argument particularly objectionable – if not downright offensive. We cannot compromise airport security in order to save money by paying fewer police officers! "Regardless of which local, state or federal agency is responsible for stationing officers at TSA screening checkpoints, a consistent law enforcement presence at these checkpoints is critical. I therefore look forward to a frank discussion regarding TSA checkpoint security at today's hearing. However, I firmly believe that we should not adjourn this hearing until we reach an agreement on how to protect these vital security checkpoints. "I look forward to hearing the views of the witnesses regarding ways to improve security at TSA screening checkpoints and throughout our nation's airports. More importantly, I look forward to learning more about the specific actions that have been taken to date by both TSA and LAWA to learn from the failures of November 1st and implement the recommendations for improved communication, coordination, and training. "The safety and security of our nation's airports and all of the workers and travelers who pass though them is of paramount importance." ###
03.27.2014	"I welcome TSA's report and recommendations that focus on improving employee training, communication systems and policies, and enhanced law enforcement presence at airports nationwide. These recommendations are a positive first step following the tragic shooting incident at LAX in November, which resulted in the death of TSA officer Gerardo Hernandez, who was killed in the line of duty. "I am particularly pleased that TSA is proposing improved standards for law enforcement presence at airport passenger security checkpoints. Following the tragic incident at LAX, I expressed concerns over current LAX security protocols during a November congressional hearing held by the Transportation Security Subcommittee of the House Committee on Homeland Security. After working with the American Alliance of Airport Police Officers, I specifically recommended during the hearing that law enforcement officers be stationed at airport passenger screening checkpoints and that airport police be able to access airport security cameras. I also wrote a letter to TSA Administrator John Pistole recommending enhancements to security at LAX and other national airports. "Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is located in my Congressional District. It is the sixth busiest airport in the world and third in the United States. I hope that these recommendations from TSA will be the first of many improvements for safety and security for our nation's airports." ###
03.25.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will host an Emergency Preparedness Workshop designed to increase disaster awareness and preparedness planning for constituents. Experts from federal, state and local government will be on hand to answer questions and help people get prepared in the event of a man-made or natural disaster. The workshop will take place on Saturday, April 12th from 10am - 12pm at the George Nakano Theater in Torrance. The event is free and open to the public. "Last week, a magnitude 4.4 earthquake struck near Westwood and was felt over a large area of Southern California including Torrance. Earthquakes serve as one of the many reminders of the risks we face here within our region. We need to ensure our communities are prepared in case of a serious emergency or natural disaster," said Congresswoman Waters. Who: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) California Governor's Office of Emergency Services Torrance Police and Fire Departments Officials and experts from other disaster response agencies What: Emergency Preparedness Workshop When: Saturday, April 12, 2014 10am – 12pm Where: George Nakano Theater 3330 Civic Center Drive Torrance, CA 90503 ###
03.25.2014	In today's Financial Services Committee hearing on "Why Debt Matters," Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), underscored the importance of promoting growth and reducing income inequality through short-term increases in discretionary fiscal stimulus in order to reduce the nation's debt and deficit. In her remarks, Waters criticized austerity measures such as the Sequester for impeding economic growth – particularly during a recession. She also pointed to the obvious political motivation behind the hearing, as in recent years the progress toward shrinking the deficit has been significant. The Congresswoman also highlighted a number of important issues on which the Committee should be focusing. These include full funding for the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and affordable housing programs at HUD, in addition to the reauthorization of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act and the Export-Import Bank. Finally, Waters warned Republicans to avoid another self-inflicted wound, such as the shutdown, sequester and debt limit brinksmanship, all of which hurt economic growth, slowed job creation, and widened the gap between rich and poor. Her full remarks are below. As prepared for delivery: "Thank you, Mr. Chairman for scheduling today's hearing to discuss the important role that fiscal policy plays in contributing to full employment and economic growth. As we continue to climb out of the worst recession since the Great Depression, it is essential that we get our fiscal policies right, and that we hold firm in our commitment to promoting growth and reducing economic inequality. And while my colleagues on the other side of the aisle endlessly use the national debt as an excuse to slash funding for important government programs, the fact remains that putting America back to work in an economy that works for everyone is undoubtedly the most effective and efficient way to reduce our debt and deficit. With that in mind, I am pleased to see that many of the witnesses here agree that Congress can best tackle the long-term deficit and national debt by pursuing short-term increases in discretionary fiscal stimulus. I similarly urge such an approach, and would suggest the Chairman consider similar proposals in the President's fiscal year 2015 budget request. As we have learned in recent years – both at home as well as in Europe – government austerity during a recession, such as the Sequester, impedes growth. Unfortunately, we've learned this lesson the hard way. In contrast to previous recessions when the government provided much-needed fiscal stimulus, the recent drastic cuts to discretionary programs have been a headwind to our full recovery. Regardless, our progress toward shrinking the deficit in recent years leads me to believe that the timing of this series of hearings seems to be more inspired by politics than enacting good policy. Especially given the fact that since President Obama took office the budget deficit has fallen from 10 percent of GDP in 2009 to 3 percent, which is the average size of the deficit over the past 40 years. President Obama's new budget proposal will help grow the economy even faster – reducing the deficit to 1.6 percent of GDP by the year 2024. As further cuts are made to the deficit they must be balanced with spending priorities that boost growth and fulfill our moral obligation to those in need. The social safety net has proven to be a crucial tool in lowering poverty rates by half. Pretending that cutting these programs would somehow magically lift people out of poverty is neither sensible nor fair. This Committee should also advocate for a strong and stable financial system that protects consumers and safeguards the savings of working Americans. Doing so requires full funding for our nation's regulators, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to ensure that the financial services industry adheres to the rules of the road. And we should provide stability to our nation's business community by quickly reauthorizing the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, known as TRIA, and the Export-Import Bank, both of which increase employment and investment. We should support initiatives to reduce poverty by fully funding HUD's programs that provide public housing, work to end homelessness and preserve access to affordable rental housing. And this Committee should focus on sensible housing finance reform, not the radical remake of our housing finance system called for by the PATH Act. And finally Mr. Chairman, this Congress must avoid self-inflicted wounds that have become all too commonplace – like the recent Republican shutdown of the government, threats of defaulting on our debts and the sequester, all of which hurt economic growth, slowed job creation, and widened the gap between rich and poor. We can and must do better. Thank you Mr. Chairman, and I yield back." ###
03.20.2014	"I am deeply saddened by the loss of my dear friend OV Smith, whom I have known for more than 30 years. OV and I became friends while I served in the California State Assembly and she was working to educate members of the Assembly about the needs of persons with developmental disabilities. "OV Smith dedicated her life to caring for the developmentally disabled. For more than 40 years, she welcomed them into her home while also taking them to church on Sundays, traveling with them on cruises and other trips, and accompanying them to activities in the community. OV founded several organizations in Los Angeles to help them develop to their full potential, initiate public policy through the legislative process, and educate caregivers on how to care for and develop the potential of their clients. "In 1970, Ms. Smith founded OV's Willing Workers for the Mentally Retarded, which provides day care, social development and educational services to developmentally disabled persons. This was the first organization of its kind in California that provided extensive and comprehensive services. "Her courage to confront the establishment, knowledge of the law, and commitment to initiate change has gained the respect of lawmakers, agency officials, and the overall community. She had been recognized by many organizations and sought out for her insights. Her motto "These are God's people, and we are responsible for them" bespoke the true heart she put into advocating for people with developmental disabilities. "OV Smith will be sorely missed by everyone who had their lives touched by her graciousness. We all benefitted from her commitment, vision, and caring heart. My thoughts and prayers are with all of her family and friends during this difficult time." ###
03.18.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), whose district includes Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), issued the following statement today regarding the release of a report by Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), about the response and recovery efforts following the November 1, 2013, active-shooter incident at LAX: "I am shocked and dismayed by the revelations included in LAWA's report on the response and recovery efforts following the November 1st active-shooter incident at LAX. This report is an embarrassment. LAWA spends $125 million on security every year. With this level of investment, LAX should have a state-of-the-art emergency response system. "I join with the entire Los Angeles community in mourning the loss of TSA Security Officer Gerardo Hernandez, who was shot and killed in the line of duty during this tragic incident, and I commend the efforts of all of the law enforcement officers and first responders involved in apprehending the suspect and preventing him from killing any additional people. "Nevertheless, LAWA's emergency response system clearly failed on this critical day. LAWA's report explains how problems in coordination between various police and fire departments resulted in multiple command posts at different locations that did not unify for 45 minutes. "The report also reveals numerous technical problems. Incompatible radio systems interfered with emergency response efforts, and many of the airport's red phones and panic buttons were not working properly. When a TSA agent picked up a red phone immediately after the first shots were fired, the airport police operator who answered the call had no way to determine where the call originated. "LAX, which is located in my district, is the third busiest airport in the United States and the sixth busiest airport in the world. It generates jobs for 294,400 workers in Los Angeles County and serves nearly 66.7 million passengers every year. The safety of all of these workers and travelers is of paramount importance. "The emergency response failures included in this report are simply unacceptable. I expect to hear more from LAWA on how the recommendations in this report will be implemented and what other measures will be taken to improve emergency response protocols and protect the millions of people who frequent this airport." ###
03.13.2014	In an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 301-91, today the U.S. House of Representatives passed comprehensive legislation designed to end unaffordable flood insurance rate hikes. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today lauded passage of H.R. 3370, the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act. For months, Waters led a Democratic effort to provide homeowners with important flood insurance rate relief and to bring accountability to the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). As a coauthor of the Biggert-Waters legislation, Congresswoman Waters has taken worked to address the unintended consequences of the law, spearheading bipartisan, bicameral legislation that passed the Senate and garnered the support of more a majority of the House of Representatives. Over the past several weeks, Waters and other Democrats have been working with Republican leadership to craft an alternative measure that can garner the support of Congress and also achieve affordability. Waters made the following statement: "Passage of this legislation is a significant victory for the thousands of Americans who are facing unaffordable flood insurance premiums. As we committed to many months ago, Democrats have worked tirelessly to fix this problem. I'm pleased we could come together and provide relief for working families dealing with skyrocketing insurance premiums, depressed home prices and the inability to buy or sell their home. This House measure strikes an important balance – addressing affordability concerns, bringing accountability to FEMA and protecting the stability of the National Flood Insurance Program. It ends the dramatic increases caused by events such as property sales – and restores grandfathered rates for those who played by the rules and built their properties according to code. For families hit by unaffordable premium increases, this bill provides important relief in the form of a refund. If enacted into law, this legislation will provide homeowners living in flood-prone regions with the clarity and certainty of knowing that the cost of insurance will not undercut their ability to buy, sell – or remain in – their homes. I urge passage of this legislation by the Senate without delay." Waters led the Democratic effort in support of the legislation on the House floor today. ###
03.13.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) joined her Democratic colleagues in signing a discharge petition to extend unemployment insurance. This special congressional procedure allows a majority of members to bypass Speaker Boehner and force an up or down vote on the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (H.R. 3546). This bill would extend emergency unemployment insurance for nearly 5 million Americans looking for work through the end of the year. "Unemployment insurance is a critical lifeline for millions of families. In 2012, it kept 2.5 million people above the poverty line, including 600,000 children," said Congresswoman Waters. "Since Republicans let the program expire just three days after Christmas – more than 2 million Americans, including nearly 340,000 here in California, have been deprived of the support they need to get back on their feet." The number of people who have lost their unemployment benefits as a result of the program's Dec. 28th expiration surpassed two million last week, according to a new analysis from House Ways and Means Committee Democrats. Every week, 72,000 people, on average, are losing their unemployment benefits nationwide without an extension of the program. Despite the growing struggles, House Republicans have blocked multiple efforts by Democrats to bring up legislation to extend the program on the House floor. Last month a Senate measure to extend the program came one vote short of the 60 votes necessary to move the legislation forward. "Recently, I spoke at a community rally in Los Angeles, hosted by a coalition of labor unions and community organizations, calling on Congressional Republicans to extend Federal unemployment insurance benefits," said Congresswoman Waters. "I will continue to urge my Republican colleagues to stop playing politics with this critical lifeline and act immediately to extend unemployment insurance." "Every one of us has felt the pain of losing a job. Whether it's a spouse, friend or relative – we all know someone who – in the last few years – has fallen on hard times. And we all know the enormous strain, stress and heartache experienced by those families unsure of where their next paycheck is coming from," added Congresswoman Waters. "A large number of those who are unable to find work require new skills for the new economy. And it is our obligation to give them a boost while they refine those skills and identify new career opportunities." ###
02.27.2014	As the House of Representatives stood poised to approve legislation to increase the government's borrowing authority, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, urged passage of the measure. Waters underscored the importance of the "clean" debt ceiling increase as critical to avoiding economic catastrophe. She also pointed out that once again, the Democratic party had to supply the votes necessary to protect the nation's well-being. In remarks given on the House floor, Waters criticized Republicans for the lasting economic impacts of holding the full faith and credit of the U.S. government hostage in 2013, and cited their irresponsibility in opposing this measure again. Minutes ago, the House voted 221-201 to lift the debt ceiling. Only 28 Republicans voted in favor. Her full remarks are below and can be viewed here. As prepared for delivery: Thank you Mr. Speaker. Once again, it is the House Democrats that are required to take the important action to protect our nation's well-being. Today, most House Republicans will once again refuse to stand behind the full faith and credit of the United States– threatening an economic catastrophe for all Americans. When Republicans pushed our nation to the brink of default last year by refusing to lift the debt limit, businesses, large and small, began to cut back by slowing spending and hiring. Consumer confidence fell faster than at any time since the financial crisis in 2008. Potential homebuyers didn't buy homes. But despite these warnings, House Republicans still want to push us to default. And the consequences would be disastrous. The value of our 401(k)s and IRAs would plummet – significantly hurting those saving for retirement. For consumers, a default would make credit cards, mortgages, and student and auto loans all more expensive. Default would lead to a U.S. credit rating downgrade, making it harder for businesses to hire new employees, and our cities and states to finance schools, hospitals, roads and bridges. Mr. Speaker, the American people cannot afford another round of Republican recklessness. Everyone from Wall Street CEOs to conservative economists agree—we need to honor our debts. I and my Democratic colleagues will once again do what is necessary. I urge Republicans to put Americans before ideology, and support this legislation to raise the debt ceiling. I yield back. ###
02.07.2014	Today, in honor of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a longtime leader of congressional efforts to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, research, testing, and treatment, called for continued vigilance in the fight against HIV/AIDS. She made her remarks at a press conference organized by the Black AIDS Institute in Carson, CA. "Today is National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. This is a day we set aside to increase HIV awareness and promote prevention, testing and treatment among African-Americans, and also to recognize the progress that has been made in the ongoing fight to combat this horrible illness. According to data compiled by the Kaiser Family Foundation, there are more than 510,000 African-Americans living with HIV/AIDS today. "This number speaks to the need for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which I established in 1998 when I was the Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. The initiative was founded to direct resources to address the epidemic's disproportionate impact on communities of color. Because of strong support in Congress, the Minority AIDS Initiative received $429 million in fiscal year 2012, more than any previous year. After a year of budget battles, Congress finally passed a spending bill for fiscal year 2014, which restored some of the sequestered funds for health programs. "I also reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 895) last year. This bill requires a comprehensive plan to provide HIV prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. I have introduced this bill several times over the years, and while it has never made it to the President's desk, it has focused attention on the problem of HIV/AIDS in our nation's prisons. As a result, the President's National HIV/AIDS Strategy, which was released in 2010, requires the Bureau of Prisons to take steps to address the effects of HIV/AIDS within the prison population. "Finally, I worked hard to expand access to routine HIV testing. Routine testing is especially important for black Americans, because so many blacks who are living with HIV/AIDS don't know they are infected. In 2012, I introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 4470). This bill would have required health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests as preventive health screenings without imposing co-payments or deductibles. "After I introduced this bill, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force worked to finalize a recommendation that all adolescents and adults ages 15 to 65 should be screened for HIV infection. This means that routine HIV screening is now considered standard medical practice. Insurance companies are required under the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare) to cover routine HIV screening as an essential benefit, and they cannot impose co-payments or deductibles. "The HIV/AIDS epidemic must be a top priority for African-Americans and indeed for all Americans. We must make it a top priority to stop the spread of HIV, tell our friends and neighbors to get tested, and get those who are infected into treatment. I urge my friends in the black community and my colleagues in Congress to remain vigilant in fighting this disease. There is more work to be done, and each of us must do our part." ###
02.06.2014	Yesterday on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, introduced a bipartisan resolution to honor the 210th anniversary of Haiti's independence (H.Res. 474) and presented a copy of the resolution to Haitian President Michel Martelly. President Martelly was in Washington, DC meeting with Members of Congress and President Obama. Haiti declared its independence from France on January 1, 1804, 210 years ago, following a revolt among African slaves against their French colonial masters. "Haiti is the only country to have achieved its independence as the result of a successful slave rebellion," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am proud to introduce this resolution to congratulate the people of Haiti upon the 210th anniversary of their independence." Congresswoman Waters' resolution was cosponsored by a bipartisan group of ten Members of Congress, all of whom are either members of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs or have shown a strong interest in issues affecting Haiti. The cosponsors include Reps. Eliot L. Engel (D-NY), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs; Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health and Global Human Rights; Albio Sires (D-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere; Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY), senior member of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere; Karen Bass (D-CA ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health and Global Human Rights; Barbara Lee (D-CA); Yvette D. Clarke (D-NY); Frederica S. Wilson (D-FL); John Conyers (D-MI); and Charles B. Rangel (D-NY). "The people of Haiti have survived slavery, repression, and natural disasters," said Congresswoman Waters. "They have demonstrated tremendous courage throughout their history, and they continue to work to improve their lives and create a better future for themselves, their families, and their fellow citizens." During Congresswoman Waters' twelve terms in Congress, she has visited Haiti many times, and she has worked with her colleagues in Congress, State Department officials, Haitian political leaders, and Haitian civil society to promote effective governance, democracy, human rights, and economic and social development in Haiti. Following the 2010 earthquake, she introduced the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573), which was passed and signed into law by the President. "I urge all of my colleagues to pass this resolution and join me in honoring the 210th anniversary of Haiti's independence," concluded Congresswoman Waters. To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here. ###
02.05.2014	Today, House Republicans rejected a Democratic procedural motion to bring bipartisan legislation that would delay the implementation of flood insurance increases up for a vote. Using a parliamentary procedure called the "previous question," House Republicans blocked an effort to bring H.R. 3370, the bipartisan Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, to the House floor. This legislation, which has 182 cosponsors from both sides of the aisle, recently passed the U.S. Senate by an overwhelming majority of 67-32. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), who has led the effort to fix these unintended consequences, released the following statement. "I am extremely disappointed that nearly every House Republican voted to block consideration of bipartisan legislation that would delay increases in flood insurance premiums. However, I am more concerned for the hundreds of thousands of middle class families who are struggling to figure out how they will afford flood insurance costs that have increased by, in some cases, tens of thousands of dollars. Thanks to today's obstruction, their pain will be prolonged. Our bill is a bipartisan, common sense way to address the unintended consequences that have arisen as a result of FEMA's botched implementation of changes to the National Flood Insurance Program. I urge Republican leadership to take up this bipartisan solution, which was recently passed by the U.S. Senate, without delay. Each day we do not act is one day longer middle class families continue to suffer from increased premiums, depressed home prices, or the inability to buy or sell their home." ###
02.05.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today in recognition of Black History Month, a commemoration that has taken place since 1976. "As we celebrate Black History Month, it is important that we take this time to honor the significant contributions African-Americans have made as a part of our nation's diverse tapestry. The theme for this year's Black History Month is "Civil Rights in America," focusing on the 50th anniversary of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which outlawed discrimination based on race, color, religion, sex or national origin. "Throughout the Civil Rights Movement, national leaders like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., Rosa Parks, Dr. Joseph Lowery, Rev. Jesse Jackson, Sr., Andrew Young, and my colleague, Congressman John Lewis worked diligently to ensure civil rights for all Americans. Armed with the power of nonviolence, civil rights leaders and advocates alike succeeded in organizing and uniting our nation on matters of racial equality. During this year's Black History month, it is important that we celebrate those responsible for shifting our nation's consciousness towards racial equality allowing us to enjoy the freedoms and opportunities available today. "The Civil Rights Act was passed during a time when African-Americans faced unfair conditions and treatment in almost every aspect of their daily lives. Even though we recognize how far we have come as a nation, there is still tremendous progress to be made. Significant disparities still persist in the health, education and incarceration rates of African-Americans across the country. An inexcusable wage gap still persists between hardworking female and male workers. And now, as our nation encourages democracy abroad, our own voting rights at home are under siege. "Now is the time for us to recommit to fortifying the progress that has been made and address the significant issues that affect us all, regardless of race or ethnicity. Investing in good jobs and effective job training, raising the minimum wage, and protecting the right to vote remain important concerns for us all today. Let's commit to ensuring the ladders of opportunity are available to all Americans and make these things a national priority." ###
01.28.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, lauded tonight's Senate vote to move forward with debate on the Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act, bipartisan legislation introduced in the House and Senate to fix the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). The Senate voted 86-13 on the procedural motion, which would delay increases in flood insurance premiums until the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) puts in place a plan to ensure they are implemented affordably. "This key vote in the U.S. Senate is a clear indication of the strong, bipartisan support for comprehensive legislation that will fix the problems with the National Flood Insurance Program. While flood insurance reform was well intended, FEMA's poor implementation, inaccurate mapping and incomplete data have led to unreasonable and unimaginable increases in premiums. Today the Senate took a major step forward to ensure that not one more family suffers from increased premiums, depressed home prices, or the inability to buy or sell their home. This legislation would ensure FEMA undertakes program changes in a way that will not cause harm, by delaying implementation until it provides Congress the facts on how rate increases will affect homeowners. It will also give us the information we need to go through the program piece-by-piece and fix any outstanding affordability issues. I hope this vote is an early indication of the strong bipartisan support this legislation enjoys – in both the House and the Senate." A vote on final passage could occur as early as the end of this week. The measure will then move to the House of Representatives, where it has 180 cosponsors from both sides of the aisle. ###
01.28.2014	Last Sunday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) gave a potent address honoring the life and legacy of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. during a multi-faith event in Los Angeles, hosted by the Second Baptist Church, under the leadership of Pastor William Epps and the Political Clergy Council, led by Minister Tonette Henry. The event, entitled "A Tribute to a King," also featured California Attorney General Kamala Harris. Congresswoman Waters noted quotes by Dr. King emphasizing the importance of education and its relevance today. She voiced her concerns about the District 1 vacant seat on the Los Angeles Unified School District Board following the death of longtime member, Marguerite LaMotte, and the fact that the board did not utilize an opportunity to appoint an experienced and committed educator, Dr. George McKenna, to replace her. The students of District 1 will remain without representation until a special election is held on June 3rd, and longer if a runoff election becomes necessary. "Marguerite was an educator, who had experience in the classroom and as a principal. Marguerite fought for all of us, even at times when we were not with her," said Congresswoman Waters. "We must refocus ourselves on education and support the individual chosen to represent the children in our community." Congresswoman Waters went on to remind the audience about how Dr. King inspired everyone to seek educational opportunities as a means to allowing the next generation to reach its full potential, ensuring the long-term success of our nation's economy and people. Attorney General Kamala Harris also discussed education and its importance in preventing incarceration as a part of her remarks. "Fifty years ago this month, President Lyndon B. Johnson declared a War on Poverty and introduced initiatives in the hope of improving education and access to employment and economic opportunities, but there is still much work to be done," added Congresswoman Waters. "Economic inequality and the racial wealth gap remain in place as barriers to progress. Dr. King envisioned a better nation where equality would be a reality. His vision and dream are still alive today, and we must work to ensure that equality and equal access to opportunity are available for all." ###
01.28.2014	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) joined with the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro), Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx, and local elected officials to break ground on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor, for which she worked tirelessly to secure federal support. The federal government is expected to provide approximately $160 million for the project, as well as a $546 million loan, which will be repaid with local funds. "I am pleased to celebrate the groundbreaking of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor," said Congresswoman Waters. "This corridor will provide service to several communities in and around my district in both the Cities of Los Angeles and Inglewood, and it will give residents access to work, school, shopping, entertainment, and everything else Los Angeles has to offer. The Leimert Park station, in particular, will provide access to a vibrant center of African-American culture, and the Hindry station will give my constituents in Westchester access to light rail." The corridor project received a $20 million federal grant from the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery or "TIGER" program, which Congresswoman Waters supported. Last spring, she introduced H.R.1124, the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act. Congresswoman Waters also circulated a letter to House appropriators in support of TIGER, and more than 100 Members of Congress signed the letter. The omnibus funding bill, which passed Congress last week, also included $600 million for TIGER. "I support TIGER because it creates jobs through investments in transportation infrastructure," stated Congresswoman Waters. "And I look forward to helping Metro obtain additional TIGER grants for projects like this one." Congresswoman Waters also realizes that there are still some concerns in the community about aspects of the corridor project. Specifically, the City of Inglewood is concerned about the intersection of Florence and Centinela being at grade, and the Crenshaw community is concerned about part of the Crenshaw Blvd. section not being underground. "I understand these concerns, but overall, this project is a great investment," she added. "The Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor is a great example of federal, state and local officials working together, and I am proud to be a part of it." ###
01.28.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will be the featured speaker at a community rally calling on Congress to extend Federal unemployment insurance benefits on Saturday, Jan. 25. The rally, hosted by a coalition of labor unions and community organizations, will be held in the parking lot of the California Employment Development Department at 11:00am PT. Who: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Westchester/Playa del Ray Democratic Club Black Los Angeles Young Democrats Community Centers, Inc. SEIU United Service Workers West SEIU AFRAM Western Region African- American Caucus Black Women's Forum Watts Cinema & Education Center What: Congresswoman Waters will urge Congressional leaders to restore Federal unemployment insurance benefits. By the end of this week, 1.6 million Americans will have been cut off from this critical lifeline, including an estimated 264,000 in California. When: Saturday, January 25, 2014 at 11:00 a.m. PT Where: California Employment Development Department (Parking Lot) 5401 Crenshaw Blvd. Los Angeles, CA 90043 ###
01.16.2014	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, urged international efforts to address the global challenges of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, during a hearing in the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. The subject of the hearing was "A Report on the G-8 Dementia Summit." The Congresswoman's remarks as prepared for delivery follow: "I would like to thank Chairman Chris Smith, the Republican Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, as well as Ranking Member Karen Bass, for organizing this hearing and inviting me to participate. As the Democratic Co-Chair of the Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, I know how devastating Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia can be for individuals and families. "As populations age, more individuals are likely to be affected by Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia. According to the World Health Organization, Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, accounting for 60 to 70 percent of dementia cases worldwide. "Here in the United States, Alzheimer's disease is the sixth leading cause of death, and it affects over five million American families. One in nine Americans age 65 and older has Alzheimer's, and one in three Americans age 85 and older suffers from this disease. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that more than 7 million Americans over age 65 will have Alzheimer's by the year 2025. Every 68 seconds, another person in the United States develops Alzheimer's. "Caregiving for dementia patients is especially difficult. More than 15 million Americans provide unpaid care for a person with Alzheimer's disease or another form of dementia. Caregivers include spouses, children, and grandchildren. Caregivers face a variety of challenges, ranging from assisting patients with feeding, bathing, and dressing, to helping them take their medications, managing their finances, and making legal decisions. "Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia present growing challenges not just in the United States but also in many countries around the world. According to data compiled by the Congressional Research Service, more than 35 million people worldwide suffered from dementia in 2010. By the year 2050, that number is expected to more than triple to over than 115 million people. "The World Health Organization estimates that more than half of global dementia cases are in low- and middle-income countries. The Congressional Research Service projected that by 2050, about 9 million people in Africa, 16 million people in Latin America, 29 million people in South and Southeast Asia, and 31 million people in East Asia will suffer from dementia. "Alzheimer's disease and other dementias present special challenges in low- and middle-income countries. In high-income countries like the United States, institutions and programs like Medicare, Medicaid, nursing homes, adult day care, and other social services provide critical support to dementia patients, their families and caregivers. However, in most low- and middle-income countries, public medical and social services for people with dementia are rare. Consequently, care for individuals with dementia in these countries is almost exclusively the responsibility of their families. "The G-8 Dementia Summit brought together national leaders from the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia to discuss a coordinated international response to dementia. I look forward to hearing from the witnesses about their experiences at the Summit. I am especially interested in plans to coordinate efforts to enhance dementia research, treatment, and caregiver support activities. I am also interested in plans to work with low- and middle-income countries to prepare them to respond to the needs of growing numbers of families affected by dementia. "Once again, I thank my colleagues, Chairman Smith and Ranking Member Bass, and I yield back the balance of my time." ###
01.15.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement regarding the omnibus appropriations legislation. "While this agreement is an improvement from the harmful funding levels called for by the sequester, I'm disappointed that the omnibus appropriations legislation fails to adequately fund our financial regulators, shortchanges many of our housing programs and declines to promote a strong global economy. "The financial reforms passed as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act are only as good as the cops enforcing them. For this reason, Wall Street's cops, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), both need funding to ensure that the financial services industry adheres to the rules of the road. "However, this agreement fails in that regard. It provides the already underfunded SEC with level funding, but attaches onerous strings to those resources. The CFTC was provided a nominal increase, which does not take into account the regulation of derivatives – an entire new industry it is now charged with examining. "Funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development provided minimal increases for Section 8 tenant-based vouchers and the Community Development Block Grant program. But again, these increases barely keep the program on the footing needed to achieve critical objectives and meet the increasing needs of the American people. "I am very disappointed that the isolationist wing of the Republican Party excluded the IMF quota reform package from the budget agreement. U.S. approval of the IMF quota deal would leverage billions of dollars of new financial commitments from other countries and enhance the Fund's ability to promote a strong global economy and stable international financial markets. I very much agree with the business community on this issue because they understand -- along with the vast majority of Democrats -- that a well-equipped IMF is very much in our national interest. "Although I do have significant concerns with this deal, they are balanced by the importance of ending the sequester, keeping the doors of the government open and ensuring that our economy and housing market remain strong." ###
01.14.2014	In the wake of the massive Target data breach that compromised more than 40 million credit and debit card accounts as well as the personally identifiable information of as many as 70 million consumers, Democratic members of the Financial Services Committee have called for an inquiry into the problem. In a letter to Financial Services Committee Chairman Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), 17 Democrats asked for a full Committee hearing to explore the recent data breach, review current law designed to protect consumers and determine what can be done to ensure the future security of consumers' card information. The call by Democrats comes in the midst of significant Republican scrutiny into the data collection and security procedures of a number of government entities. On numerous occasions, Republicans have expressed concern and even introduced legislation designed to address the prospect of security issues within the Affordable Care Act website and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. In stark contrast to those concerns, Committee Republicans have given no indication they plan to take action on this massive security breach at hand. The letter, led by Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-CA), cited the Committee's oversight plan for the 113th Congress, which espoused the need to continue evaluating the best way to protect security and confidentiality of consumer financial information. "It is incumbent upon our Committee to explore whether industry data protection standards are appropriate, and examine whether heightened regulatory standards are needed to more effectively protect consumers," the Democrats wrote. "A hearing would provide members the opportunity to hear from regulators and the industry to learn what steps merchants, financial institutions, payment processers, card networks and others should take to reduce vulnerabilities in the payment system, and strengthen measures that protect consumers from fraud." Industry analysts have said that the Target data beach is among the largest recorded financial data security breaches in history. Full text of the letter is below. The original is can be found here. January 10, 2014 The Honorable Jeb Hensarling Chairman Committee on Financial Services U.S. House of Representatives Washington, D.C. 20515 Dear Chairman Hensarling: The Target Corporation recently acknowledged that from November 27 to December 15, 2013, hackers stole credit and debit card information including card numbers, expirations dates and security codes for 40 million accounts, and other personally identifiable information for as many as 70 million customers. Accordingly, we respectfully request that you convene a full Financial Services Committee hearing to review the recent data breach including the adequacy of current consumer financial data security protection laws, and what Congress and industry stakeholders can proactively do to ensure the future security of consumers' card information. We note that the Committee's oversight plan for the 113th Congress states that "building on the Committee's long-standing role in developing laws governing the handling of sensitive personal financial information about consumers including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACT Act), the Committee will continue to evaluate best practices for protecting the security and confidentiality of such information from any loss, unauthorized access, or misuse." The Target breach—which industry analysts say is among the largest recorded financial data security breaches—raises important questions about what merchants who suspect a data breach has occurred must disclose, when they must disclose it, and who has the right to be notified. Quick notification of a breach increases the likelihood that consumers can take measures to protect themselves from fraudulent activity and is similarly critical to successfully reducing the ultimate fraud losses that financial institutions incur. It is incumbent upon our Committee to explore whether industry data protection standards are appropriate, and examine whether heightened regulatory standards are needed to more effectively protect consumers. A hearing would provide members the opportunity to hear from regulators and the industry to learn what steps merchants, financial institutions, payment processers, card networks and others should take to reduce vulnerabilities in the payment system, and strengthen measures that protect consumers from fraud. Consumers deserve reasonable assurances that the use of their credit or debit card will not jeopardize their financial and other personally identifiable information. This is increasingly important as companies continue to amass vast amounts of consumers' sensitive personal information. We appreciate your attention to this request. Sincerely, Maxine Waters (CA), Ranking Member Carolyn Maloney (NY) Daniel T. Kildee (MI) Wm. Lacy Clay (MO) Terri A. Sewell (AL) James A. Himes (CT) Gary C. Peters (MI) Gwen Moore (WI) Denny Heck (WA) Michael E. Capuano (MA) Kyrsten Sinema (AZ) Emanuel Cleaver (MO) Ed Perlmutter (CO) David Scott (GA) Bill Foster (IL) Stephen F. Lynch (MA) Gregory W. Meeks (NY) ###
01.14.2014	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) sent a letter to Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator John Pistole, expressing concerns about airport security in the aftermath of the tragic shooting incident at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). Copies of her letter were sent to Rep. Michael McCaul, Chairman of the Homeland Security Committee; Rep. Bennie Thompson, Ranking Member of the Homeland Security Committee; Rep. Richard Hudson, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security; and Rep. Cedric Richmond, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Transportation Security. The text of her letter follows: "I write you today to express the importance of having law enforcement officers stationed within 300 feet of TSA passenger screening checkpoints and the need for airport police to have access to all airport security cameras. "It is my understanding that these two security recommendations were included in a September 2012 letter to you signed by Mr. Marshall McClain, President of the Los Angeles Airport Peace Officers Association (LAAPOA). In the aftermath of the tragic shooting incident at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), I am deeply concerned that these issues have yet to be addressed by TSA. I expressed the importance of implementing these security recommendations in my statement during the House Homeland Security Committee Subcommittee on Transportation Security hearing entitled "TSA's SPOT Program and Initial Lessons from the LAX Shooting," on November 14, 2013. I believe that these recommendations will play a vital role in ensuring that all travelers and airport employees are safe in our nation's airports. "As the Member of Congress who represents LAX, the safety and security of all of the people who work in and pass through LAX is of paramount importance to me. Following the tragic shooting incident at the airport, I met with representatives from the American Alliance of Airport Police Officers (AAAPO), including the Presidents of LAAPOA and the police associations of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (JFK, LaGuardia, and Newark airports) and Baltimore-Washington International (BWI) airport, to discuss suggestions for addressing serious security gaps in our nation's airport system. We all agreed that requiring a law enforcement officer to be located within 300 feet of a TSA passenger screening checkpoint and requiring airport police to have access to all airport security cameras are sensible and cost-effective steps that will significantly enhance the security of all major airports across the nation. "In this regard, I urge you to immediately revisit and reevaluate the proposals put forth by the AAAPO in their letter to you dated September 28, 2012, which I have enclosed for your reference. "Thank you for your time and attention to this matter. I look forward to your response." ###?
01.13.2014	Today, five Members of Congress who have served as leading advocates for development assistance, disaster recovery, and human rights in Haiti—United States Representatives Maxine Waters, Yvette Clarke, John Conyers, Barbara Lee, and Frederica S. Wilson—released the following statement on the fourth anniversary of the 2010 earthquake: "On the fourth anniversary of the worst natural disaster in recent memory—the Haiti Earthquake of 2010—we pause to honor those affected and salute the strength and resilience of the Haitian people. "As Members of the Congressional Haiti Taskforce, we reaffirm our commitment to rebuilding and restoring Haiti and to building the foundation for equitable and sustainable development for the Haitian people. "The earthquake in January 2010 claimed about 220,000 lives and destroyed the livelihoods of nearly three million more people. An estimated 293,000 homes were destroyed or severely damaged, leaving 1.5 million people in informal housing or camps with high reported levels of violence. More than three quarters of the schools in the capital were rendered useless, leaving young Haitians with little opportunity to learn and no safe space to spend their time. A quarter of the civil servants in Port-au-Prince were killed, resulting in an overwhelming need for administrators, service providers, and security personnel. "Through the resolve and hard work of the Haitian people as well as effective assistance from the Obama Administration and international partners, Haiti has started on the process of recovery. While earthquake rubble once filled a continuous line of container ships across the Caribbean, most of it has been removed. More than a million Haitians have moved out of tent camps, hundreds of schools have been built, and almost half a million temporary jobs have been created. "But serious challenges—including displacement, food insecurity, and cholera—remain. And US authorities can do better. According to a report by the Government Accountability Office, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) had—as of June 2013—obligated only 52 percent and disbursed just 35 percent of the funding for Haiti reconstruction from the 2010 Supplemental Appropriations Act. To address these concerns, the US House of Representatives recently passed bipartisan legislation introduced by Congresswoman Barbara Lee and members of the CBC Haiti Task Force, the Assessing Progress in Haiti Act, which requires the State Department to provide detailed progress reports every six months through September 30, 2016. We encourage our colleagues in the Senate to pass this important bill. "The fourth anniversary of Haiti's tragedy provides an opportunity to honor the dead and recognize the progress made. It is also a time to renew our efforts to rebuild Haiti by insisting on accountability, transparency, and good governance."
01.10.2014	Today, on the Floor of the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), the Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, commemorated the 50th anniversary of the War on Poverty by calling for the extension of federal unemployment insurance benefits. Her statement was part of a series of speeches in support of unemployment insurance by members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. The Congresswoman's remarks as prepared for delivery follow: "I thank the gentleman from Wisconsin, Rep. Mark Pocan, for the time, and I congratulate him for organizing this Congressional Progressive Caucus Special Order on Unemployment Insurance. "Fifty years ago this week, in his State of the Union address, President Lyndon B. Johnson declared a War on Poverty. He proposed initiatives that would – over time – improve health, education, nutrition, and access to housing, employment and economic opportunities. "Although America has changed a great deal since that day, poverty and economic inequality are still at the forefront of our nation's problems. And they were only exacerbated by the Great Recession. "The gap between the rich and the poor in America has become a chasm. Today, 20 percent of the income in our country goes to the top one percent of Americans. And the top one percent holds about 40 percent of the country's wealth. This inequity is mirrored in our communities, our housing and rental markets, and our financial system – where a lack of access to banking services often causes working families to have debts that spiral out of control. "Mr. Speaker, inequality in this country has reached a point that for many, the American Dream of upward mobility and unlimited economic opportunity has been greatly diminished. "The 2008 financial crisis cost our economy 12 trillion dollars, as millions lost their homes and jobs. This destruction of wealth disproportionally hurt our nation's most vulnerable and only widened the gap between the rich and the poor. Even the gains from growth during the recent recovery have overwhelmingly benefitted the wealthiest people in society. "Almost 95 percent of the income gains since the recovery began have been captured by the top 1 percent. Meanwhile, the minimum wage has not been increased since 2009. "This, Mr. Speaker, is unacceptable. "Chronic unemployment and poverty still plague many of our communities. American families are still struggling to make ends meet. Four million Americans have been out of work for 27 weeks or more, and the economy still has 1 million fewer jobs than before the Great Recession began. "Though there are other factors at play, much of this inequality is the result of government policy. And government policy can help reverse these alarming trends. "But instead, House Republicans are digging us even deeper into this crisis. They passed a Farm Bill that cuts the SNAP nutrition program for low-income families by $40 billion. And then Republicans let unemployment insurance for the long-term unemployed expire – three days after Christmas. "Already, 1.3 million unemployed Americans have lost their federal unemployment insurance. That includes 20,000 military veterans. "And each day this program sits expired, thousands of additional struggling Americans are adversely affected. "As state benefits are exhausted in the first six months of 2014, an additional 1.9 million Americans will lose their unemployment insurance. In fact, every week, another 72,000 job-seekers will lose their benefits during the first half of this year. "Mr. Speaker, unemployment insurance is critical for struggling families. According to the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, unemployment insurance kept 2.5 million people above the poverty line in 2012, including 600,000 children. "Unemployment insurance is good for the economy. According to Moody's Analytics, every dollar of unemployment insurance generates $1.55 in new economic activity in the first year. The bipartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that 200,000 jobs could be lost in our economy if unemployment insurance is not extended. "We must act immediately to extend unemployment insurance. I call on my Republican colleagues to bring the Emergency Unemployment Compensation Extension Act (H.R. 3824) to the House floor and pass it now. "With one in five American children living in poverty, it is clear that the War on Poverty has gone on for far too long. Let's take action now to help all Americans share in our nation's growth and prosperity. Let's bring an unemployment insurance extension bill to the floor now. Let's bring a substantive jobs bill to the floor now. And let's bring a minimum wage increase bill to the floor now. "American families have suffered enough. It's time to restore the American Dream!" ###
01.06.2014	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement upon the confirmation of Janet Yellen as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. "In confirming Janet Yellen, the U.S. Senate has not only made history, but has put in place a Federal Reserve leader who will be a careful steward of our nation's economy. Ms. Yellen's unique understanding of the impact of the Federal Reserve's policies on the middle class will ensure the crucial pursuit of both stable prices and low unemployment. "Her judgment on the economy has been validated time and again. Before the crisis, she saw the bubble for what it was and predicted disaster in the banking system. When the crisis actually happened, she advocated for the urgent need to implement financial reform quickly in order to avoid another meltdown, which was vitally important to staunch the bleeding. "I am hopeful that as Chair, Ms. Yellen will continue to use this good judgment, particularly when it comes to policies that address the still unacceptably high rate of unemployment. "Ms. Yellen's impeccable qualifications, institutional knowledge and working relationships with the current Fed Board will ensure stability at this critical time for the U.S. economy. I congratulate Ms. Yellen and wish her well in her new and important role." Congresswoman Waters has been a longstanding supporter of Janet Yellen for Federal Reserve Chair. In July, she spearheaded a letter signed by 37 of her fellow Democrats, urging President Obama to nominate Ms. Yellen to replace Ben Bernanke as Chairman of the Federal Reserve when his term expires. ###
12.20.2013	Following the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's (CFPB) announcement of a settlement with Ocwen Financial Corporation, the nation's largest nonbank mortgage loan servicer, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, lauded the CFPB's efforts to return millions of dollars to adversely affected consumers and billions more to mitigate foreclosures. Waters also pointed out that the CFPB's authority to supervise nonbanks was included at the urging of Democratic members of the Financial Services Committee as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act. CFPB entered into the settlement in partnership with state attorneys general. She released the following statement: "During the debate over the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, Democrats worked hard to create the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and pushed to give it the authority to supervise ‘nonbanks' that provide services to consumers. As a result, nonbank mortgage servicing companies like Ocwen are, for the first time, subject to rules that ensure the fair treatment of their customers. Today's announcement underscores the importance of this authority. I'm pleased that the CFPB, in partnership with state attorneys general, is holding Ocwen accountable for consumer protection failures. Indeed, the list of transgressions against consumers is long, and includes actions such as robosigning, charging unauthorized fees, failing to provide accurate information and improperly denying loan modification requests, among many others. This settlement is a victory for those consumers who were adversely affected. It also sends a strong message to others in the industry, that consumers now have an advocate at the highest levels of government – with the power to fight for them." The settlement will return $125 million to consumers who were subjected to these improper actions, and will require Ocwen to provide $2 billion in relief to its customers facing foreclosure through principal reduction. ###
12.17.2013	At a press conference prior to a Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) board meeting, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) today joined with other elected officials and over 35 community organizations in urging board members to respectfully delay any action to replace the late Marguerite Poindexter LaMotte until following her services and interment. Congresswoman Waters made the following statement: "In every way, Marguerite LaMotte was a model educator, advocate and dear friend. Our community is still coping with the loss of this important leader, who fought especially hard for students in underserved communities. "That is why today, we are respectfully requesting that the LAUSD delay any action to determine how Ms. LaMotte will be replaced. Moving forward at this sensitive time is premature and would be hurtful to her family, friends and community, all of whom are still grieving. "It is a violation of African-American custom and practice to replace, substitute or eliminate any position before the conclusion of services and interment. We have come here today out of respect for these traditions – and for Ms. LaMotte's family – to ask the board to delay any motion until its next meeting. "Marguerite LaMotte truly left her mark on all who knew her. Her presence in this building – and across Los Angeles – will be missed. I believe that after giving generations of our children so much, the very least we can do is properly celebrate her extraordinary accomplishments by delaying this vote." ###
12.11.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement on the passing of Los Angeles Unified School District Board Member, Marguerite Poindexter LaMotte. "I was deeply saddened to learn of the loss of my dear friend Marguerite LaMotte. Marguerite worked in every aspect of the Los Angeles Unified School District serving as a teacher, principal, administrator and member of the school board. She was a zealous educator and advocate for children who fought especially hard for students in underserved communities. She helped to turn troubled schools around and her great leadership will be truly missed. "High student performance was Marguerite's consistent goal and she did everything within her power to maximize scholastic achievement and the student's overall learning experience. She was engaged in the community as she served on a local school advisory board and volunteered at A Place Called Home. She was also a trailblazer, being the first African-American woman to serve as a visiting professor at Louisiana State University in the undergraduate school of education." "Her commitment to education and public service was sincere and well-known to all who had the wonderful opportunity to meet her. Not only was Marguerite an educator, but she enjoyed being in the presence of her friends. We both loved to dance and would often do so together. "She has truly left her mark on all who knew her and I know her presence will be missed. She was a wonderful light and through her tenacity, knowledge, and intellect she served her community. My thoughts and prayers are with her children, grandchildren, and extended family during this difficult time." ###
12.11.2013	Following the confirmation of Congressman Mel Watt (D-NC) as Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, Congresswoman Maxine Waters¸ Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, offered the following statement in strong support. "I am elated that after months of uncertainty and obstruction, the U.S. Senate has finally confirmed Congressman Mel Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Mel has over 40 years of experience on issues related to housing – 20 as my friend and colleague on the Financial Services Committee and 22 as an attorney dealing largely in real estate. He is highly respected on both sides of the aisle, and well-regarded as a legislator focused on openness, collaboration and good public policy. Moreover, he knows how to get things done. Mel Watt's legislative work demonstrates an unwavering commitment to protecting consumers, expanding affordable rental housing, and providing prudent oversight of financial institutions. He will bring this expertise to his new role as overseer of the nation's secondary mortgage markets. The FHFA plays a critical role in our economic and housing recovery and the position of Director requires a leader who deeply understands the complex issues surrounding housing and housing finance. I believe Mel Watt has the vision, experience and temperament necessary to ensure the FHFA remains focused on the long-term stability of the economy and the housing finance system. This is particularly needed as Congress begins to consider reforming the $10 trillion secondary mortgage market. I believe that while the worst of the crisis is over, we still have many issues to overcome. I am heartened to know that Mel Watt will be at the helm to address those challenges." Yesterday, Waters led all 27 of Watt's Democratic colleagues on House Committee on Financial Services in a letter to Senate leaders Harry Reid (D-NV) and Mitch McConnell (R-KY) touting his experience and calling for his confirmation. ###
12.09.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) joined a Congressional Delegation to Johannesburg, South Africa to attend a memorial service for her friend and extraordinary leader, President Nelson Mandela. The delegation departed this morning from Joint Base Andrews, Maryland to attend Tuesday's service at Johannesburg's FNB Stadium. "I am honored to be a part of the official delegation that will represent the United States to communicate the American people's prayers and condolences to President Mandela's family and the South African people," said Congresswoman Waters. "This memorial service will give my colleagues and I, as well as people around the world, an opportunity to pay final respects to one of the greatest icons that ever lived." Congresswoman Waters was a longtime leader in the fight to end apartheid in South Africa. In 1986, as a member of the California Assembly, then Assemblywoman Waters called for the divestment of funds from businesses doing business with South Africa and helped to make the call for divestment a national movement sweeping from state to state and city to city. She did this by authoring Assembly Bill 134 to divest a record $12 billion from public pension funds in California, thus fortifying California's opposition to the apartheid regime. The divestment movement grew and at one point, there were over 40 state legislatures that were considering a divestment bill. Waters organized marches and rallies at colleges and universities across the country. In Los Angeles, she joined with other leaders to protest apartheid, including an overnight sit-in at the South African consular office. She put her own freedom on the line when she was arrested for protesting the apartheid regime in front of the South African Consulate in Washington, D.C. In 1990, Waters chaired the committee which welcomed Nelson and Winnie Mandela to Los Angeles by hosting a six-hour rally and concert that filled the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum to capacity. A month later, she was elected to Congress and served as a member of the official U.S. delegation to witness the historic swearing-in ceremony for Nelson Mandela as the President of South Africa. Congresswoman Waters welcomed President Mandela to the United States again in 1998 for his Congressional Gold Medal Ceremony. ###
12.06.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after learning of the death of Nelson Mandela, former President of South Africa and international civil rights icon. He was 95 years old. "I am deeply saddened by the death of former South African President Nelson Mandela. Today, the people of South Africa have lost a leader and the world has lost an icon. His death is a loss to his family, to the country of South Africa and to the world. "After spending an unjust 27 years in prison, Nelson Mandela was the first black South African to be elected President in the first multi-racial election in South Africa's history. President Mandela used his administration to dismantle the disdainful legacy of apartheid, tackle institutional racism and begin the process of racial reconciliation. Beginning with his time as the founder of the African National Congress Youth League and extending beyond his tenure as President of South Africa, Mandela led the anti-apartheid movement and inspired a generation of activists. "When I reflect upon my own career in public service, I am among that generation of protestors who have been inspired by President Mandela's courage, dedication and wisdom. I also consider myself among those who have had the distinct honor and privilege of knowing him and calling him a friend. "While a member of the California State Assembly, the effort to end apartheid in South Africa was one of the most important and formative moments of my political career. This effort culminated in the 1986 passage of Assembly Bill 134, legislation that allowed California to divest $12 billion in state pension funds tied to the apartheid regime in South Africa. In 1990, I chaired the welcome committee for the Los Angeles leg of his eight-city tour of the United States, and I helped organize a concert and rally that was filled to capacity at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. "I traveled with the official American delegation to attend the inauguration of Nelson Mandela as President of South Africa in 1994; and in 1998, I was honored to welcome President Mandela to the United States once again, this time to receive the Congressional Gold Medal. "President Mandela was an inspiration to millions of people, both in South Africa and throughout the world. At 95 years old, he lived a full and purposeful life, and truly changed the world with his dedication to freedom, equality, and human rights. He was not only an extraordinary gift to South Africa, but a gift to humankind. President Mandela will truly be missed. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Graca Machel, his children and grandchildren." ###
12.02.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), a Congressional leader in the fight against HIV/AIDS, issued the following statement in recognition of the 25th anniversary of World AIDS Day, Sunday, Dec. 1, 2013: "World AIDS Day is a time to reflect on the progress we've made in our fight against HIV/AIDS, show support for people living with the disease, honor those who have died, and recommit ourselves to ending this epidemic once and for all. It's been over 32 years since AIDS was first discovered, yet the AIDS virus continues to infect and kill thousands of Americans and millions of people around the world. "According to the Centers for Disease Control, more than 1.8 million people in the U.S. have been infected with HIV, including more than 650,000 people who have already died and more than 1.1 million people who are living with HIV/AIDS today. "In the U.S. Congress, I have fought to make sure the Affordable Care Act enables health coverage for routine HIV testing for all Americans and comprehensive treatment for those who are infected. Now, for the first time, all Americans who are living with HIV/AIDS can purchase affordable health plans without being rejected because of a pre-existing condition. "I have also been a leading proponent of legislation to increase research and funding to combat HIV/AIDS and to help those affected by the disease throughout our society. Earlier this year, I reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act to require the federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. In addition, I circulated a request letter in support of additional funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which I developed in 1998, to provide grants for HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs that serve minority communities. "Since the epidemic began, we continue to be encouraged by new research advances that will someday lead to a cure, but we are nowhere near the finish line we seek in taking control over this terrible illness. Today, in the U.S., we must continue to do our part to battle this disease by promoting routine HIV testing and prevention and by making treatment for the infected more accessible and more affordable. Let's rededicate ourselves to caring for individuals living with HIV/AIDS and recommit our efforts to finding a cure." ###
11.22.2013	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) reintroduced the Minority Diabetes Initiative Act (H.R. 3591) in honor of National Diabetes Month. This bill will establish an initiative to provide grants to physicians and community based organizations for diabetes prevention, care, and treatment programs in minority communities. The bill is cosponsored by 41 of the Congresswoman's congressional colleagues. "Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, and it is having an especially severe impact upon minorities," said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), among persons over the age of twenty, 8.4 percent of Asian Americans, 11.8 percent of Hispanic Americans, 12.6 percent of African Americans, and 14.2 percent of American Indians/Alaska Natives have been diagnosed with diabetes. Among Hispanics, the rates are 13.3 percent for Mexican Americans and 13.8 percent for Puerto Rican Americans. "Diabetes can lead to serious and sometimes deadly complications, including high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, blindness, kidney disease, nerve damage, and lower-limb amputations," said Congresswoman Waters. "Minorities with diabetes often lack access to quality health care and are more likely to suffer from complications." The CDC calculated that compared to non-Hispanic whites, Hispanics were 1.5 times more likely to die from diabetes; American Indians/Alaska Natives were 1.8 times more likely to die from diabetes; and African Americans were 2.2 times more likely to die from the disease. The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will provide grants for a variety of diabetes-related health services, including public education on diabetes prevention and control, routine health care for diabetic patients, eye care, foot care, and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes. "The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will help reduce the incidence of diabetes among minorities and enable those affected to live healthy and productive lives," added Congresswoman Waters. ###
11.21.2013	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, submitted a statement urging international action to address the global challenges of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias during a hearing in the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global Human Rights, and International Organizations of the House Committee on Foreign Affairs. The subject of the hearing was "The Global Challenge of Alzheimer's: The G-8 Dementia Summit and Beyond." The Congresswoman's statement follows: "I would like to thank Chairman Chris Smith, my Republican Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, as well as Ranking Member Karen Bass, for organizing this hearing and inviting me to participate. "This hearing, "The Global Challenge of Alzheimer's: The G-8 Dementia Summit and Beyond," addresses an important topic. As the Democratic Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, I know how devastating Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia can be for individuals and families. "Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia primarily affect the elderly. As populations age, more individuals are likely to be affected by these conditions. According to the World Health Organization, Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia, accounting for 60 to 70 percent of dementia cases worldwide. "Here in the United States, Alzheimer's disease is the sixth leading cause of death, and it affects over five million American families. One in nine Americans age 65 and older has Alzheimer's, and one in three Americans age 85 and older suffers from this disease. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that more than 7 million Americans over age 65 will have Alzheimer's by the year 2025. Every 68 seconds, another person in the United States develops Alzheimer's. "Most Americans suffering from Alzheimer's disease live at home under the care of family and friends. More than 15 million Americans provide unpaid care for a person with Alzheimer's disease or another form of dementia. Caregivers include spouses, children, and grandchildren. Caregivers face a variety of challenges, ranging from assisting patients with feeding, bathing, and dressing to helping them take their medications, managing their finances, and making legal decisions. "Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia present growing challenges not just in the United States but also in many countries around the world. According to data compiled by the Congressional Research Service, more than 35 million people worldwide suffered from dementia in 2010. By the year 2050, that number is expected to increase by 224 percent to more than 115 million people. "The first G-8 Dementia Summit will be held on December 11th in the United Kingdom. The purpose of the summit is to bring health ministers, researchers, physicians, industry leaders, and others together to discuss how they can coordinate efforts and shape an effective international solution to dementia. "The World Health Organization estimates that more than half of global dementia cases are in low- and middle-income countries. The Congressional Research Service projected that by 2050, there will be 8.7 million people with dementia in Africa, 16.1 million people with dementia in Latin America, 29.2 million people with dementia in South/Southeast Asia, and 30.8 million people with dementia in East Asia. "Alzheimer's disease and other dementias present special challenges in low- and middle-income countries. In high-income countries, institutions like nursing homes provide care for many of the individuals who are suffering from dementia, and programs like Medicare, Medicaid, and social services for seniors provide financial support to families struggling to care for an affected loved one. However, in most low- and middle-income countries, public medical and social services for people with dementia are rare. Consequently, care for individuals with dementia in these countries is predominantly the responsibility of their families. "Countries that have been heavily impacted by HIV/AIDS face additional challenges in dealing with dementia. Millions of children have been orphaned by HIV/AIDS, and grandparents play an important role in raising many of these children. According to UNAIDS, nearly 17 million children worldwide have lost at least one parent to HIV/AIDS, and almost 90 percent of them live in Africa. UNAIDS further estimates that, in some countries, more than half of all children who lost a parent to HIV/AIDS are being cared for by a grandparent. The difficulties for families and communities could be tremendous if some of these grandparents who are caring for their grandchildren begin to develop dementia and need care themselves. "These are just a few of the many challenges that increasing rates of Alzheimer's and dementia could pose to the international community. I hope that the G-8 Dementia Summit will give the international community an opportunity to discuss these challenges and begin to develop comprehensive strategies to address them. I support the participation of U.S. officials in the Summit, and I look forward to hearing their report on the Summit's achievements. "Once again, I thank my colleagues, Chairman Smith and Ranking Member Bass, for allowing me to participate in this hearing, and I look forward to discussing the G-8 Dementia Summit with them and working to alleviate the global burden of Alzheimer's disease and dementia." ###
11.19.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement on the passing of Lawndale's Mayor Harold Hofmann: "I was very saddened to learn of the passing of my friend, Mayor Harold Hofmann. He was an exceptional and committed public servant who has always done what he believes is best for the City of Lawndale. Serving as mayor for 22 years and as a city council member for ten years, Mayor Hofmann was a kind and gentle man who exhibited his love for Lawndale daily through his words and actions. "Mayor Hofmann enjoyed working with people to promote good government and safe neighborhoods. He was extremely thankful for the work that we were able to do together that brought resources to the city. He was particularly proud of the Lawndale Community Center, which we worked together to secure funding for. "Mayor Hofmann was known for his perfect attendance record and his efforts to develop special events and programs. I always looked forward to seeing him at the many events he organized throughout Lawndale, especially the Memorial Day Service he held at Memorial Wall in front of city hall. He always led the city in honoring our service men and women that had sacrificed their lives for our country. "Mayor Hofmann and his wife of 60 years Doris were truly a team. It is my hope that the wonderful memories of him, along with his dedicated service to Lawndale will help to comfort her and the entire Hofmann family during this difficult time." ###
11.18.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement on the passing of Joseph "Joe" Debro, former director for the Office of Small Business for the state of California. "I was deeply saddened to learn of the loss of my dear friend Joe Debro. Joe and I became friends when I was first elected to the California State Assembly in 1976. He had been appointed as the director for the Office of Small Business for the state of California, and I served as the Assembly's representative to the small business board. Joe taught me everything I know about minority business contracting, government procurement, investment banking, and the avenues of access to capital for small and minority business. "Joe was well-known and respected for his work with the small business community, especially in the Bay Area. The lessons I learned from him equipped me with the skill to become one of the best advocates for small and minority business in the state of California. It was because of Joe that I was able to author and pass legislation that set aside 15 percent of all state contracts for minority-owned businesses and five percent for women-owned businesses in California. "I worked with him on many important projects, including the founding of the Builders Mutual Surety Company. This company was the first minority-owned surety company in the country, which benefitted many people. Joe was not only a business expert, but he was an activist and advocate who put pressure on city, state, and federal level governments forcing them to open up opportunities for minorities and women in business. "Joe will be sorely missed by everyone who knew him. We all benefitted from his brilliance, his knowledge and experience and we are all better people because of him. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Anita, his children and the entire Debro family during this difficult time." ###
11.18.2013	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) congratulated Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) and the City of Inglewood on reaching an agreement on $7.07 million in funding for noise mitigation efforts in Inglewood. The agreement will provide funding to continue soundproofing residences in the City of Inglewood from the noise of aircraft utilizing Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). "I am very pleased that LAWA and the City of Inglewood have reached this agreement for noise mitigation for our constituents," said Congresswoman Waters. "Although Inglewood has previously received noise mitigation funds, not all residents were covered and many have been waiting for years for upgrades to reduce noise in their homes." "Over the years, discussions with Gina Marie Lindsey, LAWA's Chief Executive Officer, have been fruitful and the work of Inglewood's city officials has all led to this meaningful agreement," continued Congresswoman Waters. "Despite the fact that there have been missteps, we have all worked to ensure that residents affected by airport noise could have their homes mitigated." The project consists of soundproof construction work on approximately 173 homes and design and engineering for another 131 homes. The noise mitigation upgrades could include sound-insulation windows, doors, and attics and efficient heating and air conditioning units. Inglewood has received a total of $317 million in noise mitigation funds since 1985 from LAWA and the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The city's Residential Sound Insulation Program administers the grants. For residents interested in additional information about possible future funding, please contact their office at 310-412-5289. "The individuals and families that live, work and go to school near LAX experience airport noise every day," said Congresswoman Waters. "These funds are critical for providing relief to Inglewood residents from the noise caused by aircraft that fly into and out of LAX." ###
11.15.2013	U.S. Representatives Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and Chris Smith (R-N.J.), House co-Chairs of the Bipartisan, Bicameral Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, today encouraged participation in the 11th annual National Memory Screening Day on Nov. 19. "National Memory Screening Day is a wonderful opportunity for individuals with memory concerns to get free and confidential screenings for Alzheimer's disease and other problems affecting memory," said Waters. "It is also an opportunity to raise awareness of Alzheimer's disease and promote the value of memory screening and early detection." "Having worked with the dedicated men and women of the Alzheimer's Foundation of America (AFA) for many years, I am grateful for their consistent work in raising Alzheimer's awareness and the benefits of early detection and memory screenings. Their lead in a coordinated, organized effort helps ensure that Americans have access to the safe evaluation tools that can indicate if further evaluation is warranted," said Smith. AFA initiated the first National Memory Screening Day in 2003 and holds the event in collaboration with local organizations and healthcare professionals each November during National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month. Alzheimer's disease is the sixth-leading cause of death in the United States and affects more than 5.4 million Americans, one in eight seniors. The disease, which is characterized by steadily deteriorating loss of thinking, reasoning and memory skills, has a devastating impact on those with the disease but can also take an enormous toll on the 15 million family members and others who act as caregivers to those in need. In New Jersey, an estimated 150,000 individuals over 65 have Alzheimer's, and nearly 430,000 caregivers provide unpaid care. In California, over 600,000 have Alzheimer's disease with 1.2 million family members providing care. If left unaddressed, the national AD population is projected to triple to 16 million by 2050. It is important to ensure all Americans understand the disease and check out memory problems and memory screenings are an important tool to do so. On Nov. 19th, local sites are offering free, confidential memory screenings to the public and distribute educational materials about memory concerns, dementia, caregiving and successful aging. Find a site by entering a zip code here: https://www.afascreenings.org/. Last year, an estimated 85,000 people participated at more than 2,300 sites on National Memory Screening Day. This November, more than 7,000 sites nationwide are participating on November 19 itself or throughout the month. "Just like people are concerned about the health of their bodies, they should also be concerned about the health of their brains. Likewise, just like doctors regularly test for conditions like heart disease, cancer and diabetes, so should they monitor a person's memory," said Carol Steinberg, AFA's president. "There is a lot to be said about being proactive when it comes to your memory." Memory screenings are a safe and cost-effective intervention leading individuals to seek appropriate clinical resources, thus reducing the costs of long-term care or hospitalization resulting from undiagnosed complications. A memory screening is not used to diagnose any illness but is used as an indicator to determine whether a person might benefit from further examination by a qualified physician. Screenings also greatly benefit those with normal scores, by allaying fears, providing a baseline for future screenings, and promoting chronic disease prevention and successful aging. "Early detection of Alzheimer's disease improves treatment and helps individuals and families plan for their future," said Waters. "I congratulate the Alzheimer's Foundation of America for organizing the 11th annual National Memory Screening Day." "We know that early diagnosis, treatment and access to support services have demonstrable benefits for an individual's health and can lower the cost of long-term treatment," said Smith. "Tuesday, you can learn more about memory problems and brain health, and get screened locally, at no cost. Everyone should sign up for this opportunity." For additional information on Alzheimer's disease and memory screenings, visit: www.nationalmemoryscreening.org. ###
11.14.2013	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), addressed safety and security concerns at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) in the wake of the shooting incident that occurred on Nov. 1, 2013. She addressed the remarks to Transportation Security Administration (TSA) Administrator John Pistole, who testified during a hearing held by the Subcommittee on Transportation Security of the House Committee on Homeland Security, entitled "TSA's SPOT Program and Initial Lessons from the LAX Shooting." Remarks as prepared for delivery: "I would like to thank Homeland Security Committee Chairman Michael McCaul, Ranking Member Bennie Thompson, Transportation Security Subcommittee Chairman Richard Hudson, and Ranking Member Cedric Richmond for allowing me to participate in this hearing, which will consider the initial lessons learned from the tragic LAX shooting incident, which occurred on November 1st at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) in my congressional district, as well as the Screening of Passengers by Observation Techniques (SPOT) program, which involves Transportation Security Administration (TSA) officers observing the behavior of passengers. "I want to begin by joining with my colleagues to honor the life and service of Gerardo Hernandez, the TSA officer who was killed in the line of duty during this tragic incident. I offer my deepest condolences to his family and friends. I also honor all of the TSA officers, LAX police officers, and other first responders who risked their lives to stabilize the situation and protect the public. "LAX is the sixth busiest airport in the world and third in the United States. LAX offers 680 daily flights to 96 American cities and additional flights to 30 foreign countries. In 2012, LAX served more than 63 million passengers, processed more than 1.9 million tons of air cargo, and handled more than 600,000 landings and takeoffs. The safety and security of all of the people who work in and pass through LAX is of paramount importance. "The LAX shooting incident raises two specific security concerns that I will highlight today. The first is the need for law enforcement officers to be stationed at passenger screening checkpoints. The second is the need for airport police to have access to airport security cameras. "Both of these issues were raised in a letter from the American Alliance of Airport Police Officers to TSA Administrator John Pistole on September 28, 2012, more than thirteen months before this tragic incident occurred. The letter was signed jointly by Marshall McClain, the President of the Los Angeles Airport Peace Officers Association, and Paul Nunziato, the President of the Port Authority Police Benevolent Association. "In a response dated October 12, 2012, Administrator Pistole agreed that both of these issues merited further discussion. I hereby request that the committee include both the Airport Police Officers' letter and Administrator Pistole's response in the record for today's hearing. "There are two methods by which police may provide law enforcement support for TSA's passenger screening checkpoints. The "fixed post" method requires a police officer to be stationed at the passenger screening checkpoint. The "flexible response" method allows police to roam the surrounding area but requires that they be able to respond to a problem at the checkpoint within a specified time period. "The Airport Police Officers' letter explained that it is virtually impossible for an individual police officer to respond quickly to a problem at a screening checkpoint if the officer is responsible for patrolling an entire terminal area and performing other police functions. The letter recommends a uniform standard for all major airports, which would require a law enforcement officer within 300 feet of the passenger screening area. "It is my understanding that LAX police officers did indeed provide both fixed post and roaming police officers at LAX at the time this letter was written. Then, last April, six months after Administrator Pistole agreed to discuss the issue, a decision was made to waive the requirement for fixed post officers at LAX. In any event, there was apparently no fixed post officer stationed at the affected LAX checkpoint when the shooting began. "The Airport Police Officers' letter also raised the issue of real-time airport police access to airport security cameras. As the letter explained, most airports do not have a coordinated airport-wide security camera system. Instead, TSA, airport management, airlines, and vendors own and operate their own security camera systems, and there is no requirement that they provide airport police with a camera feed should an incident occur. This is certainly the case at LAX. "It is my understanding that the absence of airport police access to airport security cameras at LAX complicated the efforts of LAX police to apprehend the shooter after he shot Officer Hernandez, passed through the checkpoint, and began to roam through the terminal where he shot additional victims. Fortunately, these victims all survived. "I hope that Administrator Pistole will address both of these two issues during his testimony. "Finally, I did not focus my remarks today on the SPOT program. However, I will say that I do believe it is racial profiling. It is also ineffective, and so I chose to focus my remarks on more effective security methods. "I thank the Chairman and the Ranking Member for the time." ###
11.12.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement regarding the tragedy in the Philippines caused by Typhoon Haiyan: "My thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families, and the survivors affected by Typhoon Haiyan and for those in my congressional district who have families and loved ones in the Philippines. I stand ready and willing to assist our government's response to alleviate the suffering of the Filipino people. "We still do not yet know the full extent of the damage, but the United Nations has estimated that more than 11 million people have been affected by the typhoon. The storm is one of the strongest storms to ever hit land and has left 660,000 homeless. The official death toll has surpassed 1,700 and is expected to rise significantly. "In my district, there are estimated to be over 21,000 Filipino-Americans who greatly contribute to the multicultural fabric that makes the Los Angeles area a great place to live. I look forward to working with the Filipino-American community to ensure that water, food and other assistance gets to people in need and to help with the rescue efforts. "I am encouraged that the United States government is already providing humanitarian assistance. I urge our international partners to join with us and support humanitarian efforts to help the Filipino people recover from this terrible disaster and pull their communities back together." # # #
11.12.2013	On Veterans Day, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will attend several veterans events throughout her district today, including speaking at the U.S. VETS Los Angeles Breakfast in Inglewood and the City of Gardena Annual Veterans Day Service. Congresswoman Waters was recently honored by U.S. VETS with the inaugural Judge Harry Pregerson Public Service Award for her contributions to the veterans' community. A longtime advocate for veterans and their families, Congresswoman Waters led efforts to enact legislation to obtain a 50-year lease for a vacant building on the West Los Angeles VA grounds that established New Directions, a social service agency that provides housing and rehabilitation to homeless veterans, returning them to jobs, family and housing. She authored legislation that created the first women's bureau within the Department of Veterans Affairs, and was also responsible for the creation of the Gardena Community Based Outpatient Clinic that provides primary care and mental healthcare to veterans. "Since 1919, Veterans Day has provided Americans with an opportunity to reflect on and honor the service members who have answered the call to serve in our nation's military to protect our country on the frontlines," said Congresswoman Waters. "As we observe this Veterans Day, let us never forget the sacrifices made for our freedoms by these brave men and women." Today, Congresswoman Waters has taken an active role in fighting to end the veterans' disability benefits claims backlog at the Department of Veterans Affairs. She has dedicated staff members with expertise in handling veterans' complaints and disability claims. She is also preparing to provide transportation to veterans in the Greater Los Angeles area to attend Hawthorne's VFW Post 2075 annual Thanksgiving Day dinner for veterans later this month. "As a nation, we share the obligation to care for and honor our veterans for their bravery and sacrifice daily not just on Veterans Day, " said Congresswoman Waters. "Rest assured, I am dedicated to uphold this commitment to our veterans by continuing to work within Congress to enact legislation that supports our service members." ###
11.06.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered a keynote address on the need for robust housing finance reform at a public forum hosted by the Bipartisan Policy Center (BPC) Housing Commission. The forum covered future demographic trends impacting housing markets, efforts to link housing and healthcare to serve the most vulnerable populations, access to credit for perspective homebuyers, and efforts to incentivize the adoption of energy efficiency measures in housing. Moderated by Ron Brownstein of National Journal and featuring former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Henry Cisneros, the forum was held at the University of Southern California (USC) on Monday, Nov. 4. "The timing of this forum could not be much better. It has been five years since the bank bailouts and the federal takeover of mortgage giants Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac," said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. "After several brutal years in the wake of the financial crisis, our housing recovery is continuing to take shape. Home prices dropped precipitously from 2007 through 2011, but are now stabilizing or even rising in many markets, including Los Angeles." A strong supporter of the Dodd-Frank Act, designed to avoid the subprime meltdown that caused home foreclosures that destroyed many of our communities, Congresswoman Waters told the audience she was encouraged to see that reforms advanced under the law are slowly being implemented. She also discussed her forthcoming proposal to unwind and replace Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, laying out a set of core principles released by Financial Services Committee Democrats, under her leadership, which will guide their consideration of all reform proposals. Among those principles, housing finance reform must maintain an affordable 30-year fixed rate mortgage; protect taxpayers by making any guarantee fully paid for; and support affordable rental housing and the multi-family market. Waters announced her own proposal will encompass these principles. It will also end Fannie and Freddie, replacing them with a new, cooperative-owned securities issuer that has a lower risk than shareholder-owned firms. Her proposal will ensure access to sustainable homeownership for creditworthy borrowers of all backgrounds and in all regions of the country, while also promoting affordable and available rental options for a changing America. "We are working on this proposal not only to highlight these key, priority issues, but also because the Republican proposal we have in the House of Representatives is simply untenable," stated Congresswoman Waters. "The Republican's PATH Act – or as I call it, the ‘PATH to Nowhere' Act – would be bad for our country and our economy." Released by Financial Services Committee Republicans, the PATH Act would badly hurt America's middle-class, ending the affordable 30-year fixed rate mortgage – the lifeblood of our housing market. It severely limits the availability of FHA-backed mortgages and rases the costs of those mortgages significantly. And the PATH Act would be detrimental to renters, eliminating Fannie and Freddie's role in multi-family housing. "As this debate moves forward, I remain committed to working with President Obama and those Members of Congress committed to a reasonable approach to housing finance reform. We must ensure that reform of this complicated market is accomplished in a manner that provides opportunity to Americans of all income levels, protects taxpayers and consumers, and brings equity and accountability to all actors within our financial system," she added. ###
11.06.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, has been named a 2013 "Woman of Influence" by HousingWire, a leading news outlet covering the U.S. housing economy, spanning mortgage lending, servicing, investments and real estate operations. Waters was recognized for her efforts to ensure American families are provided adequate consumer protections, as well as for her longstanding support for minority rights to affordable housing and responsible lending. "I am honored to be chosen as a 2013 Woman of Influence, and I thank HousingWire for my selection," said Congresswoman Waters. "These are serious times for our nation's housing and housing finance sectors. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, I am committed to providing greater opportunity for affordable housing to every American – particularly those who are most in need. I'm working to protect consumers from bad actors by making sure all those in the housing sector play by the rules. And I am working to forge a reasonable approach to housing finance reform – one that protects taxpayers and preserves the 30-year, fixed rate mortgage for future generations of Americans." Waters was one of just two Members of Congress to be named, joining Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA). Other noteworthy selections include Janet Yellen, current Vice Chair and presidential nominee to Chair the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve; Laurie Maggiano, Program Manager, Servicing and Securitization, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; and Deborah Jenkins, Senior Vice President and National Head of Multifamily Underwriting and Credit, Freddie Mac. To read Congresswoman Waters' profile, click here.About HousingWire HousingWire is the nation's most influential news source covering the U.S. housing economy, spanning mortgage lending, servicing, investments and real estate operations. The company's news, commentary, magazine content, industry directories, and events give professionals the insight they need to make better, more informed business decisions. Learn more at https://www.HousingWire.com. ###
11.01.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement regarding the shooting incident at Terminal 3 in Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) today: "My thoughts and prayers are with the LAX shooting victims, their families and loved ones today. I pray for the health and recovery of those injured and for our first responders who arrived on the scene to tend to the wounded and secure the area inside the terminal. "LAX is located in my congressional district, and it is the sixth busiest airport in the world and third in the United States. The TSA security checkpoints are the public's first line of defense against weapons and contraband being brought into our nation's airports. The safety and security of the people who work in and pass through LAX is of paramount importance. "As our law enforcement officials continue to investigate, it is my sincere hope that the individual or individuals responsible be held accountable and brought to justice for this heinous act." ###
10.31.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) has spearheaded a broad, bipartisan coalition of 95 Members of the House of Representatives in introducing a legislative solution to fix the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and ensure changes are implemented affordably. The Homeowner Flood Insurance Affordability Act (H.R. 3370), calls for a four-year delay to the program, and requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to complete an affordability study and propose a framework that addresses affordability issues. A companion measure has been introduced in the U.S. Senate by Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Johnny Isakson (R-GA). "The Biggert-Waters legislation was designed to address a $24 billion deficit and ensure millions of American homeowners could continue to purchase flood insurance. But FEMA's poor implementation, inaccurate mapping and incomplete data has led to unreasonable and unimaginable increases in premiums. From the moment I learned of the unintended consequences of the Biggert-Waters legislation, I have made clear that I would lead the effort to resolve the problems that have resulted," said Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. "Today we have reached a bipartisan, bicameral agreement on the best way to repair the National Flood Insurance Program. This legislation would ensure that FEMA undertakes program changes in a way that will not cause harm, by delaying implementation until it provides Congress the facts on how rate increases will affect homeowners. It will also give us the information we need to go through the program piece-by-piece and fix any outstanding affordability issues." Specifically, the legislation will accomplish the following: Imposes a delay likely to total four years for the most vulnerable properties, by delaying implementation of rate increases until two years after FEMA completes an affordability study, which was mandated in Biggert-Waters but not undertaken. FEMA has estimated it will take two years to complete the affordability study. It would then take up to an additional two years for FEMA to submit an affordability framework to Congress and for Congress to review the framework. This means rate increases would be delayed for four years in total. The delay applies to: primary, non-repetitive loss residences that are currently grandfathered; all properties sold after July 6, 2012; and all properties that purchased a new policy after July 6, 2012. Requires FEMA to propose an affordability framework that addresses the identified affordability issues within 18 months after the completion of the study and provides six months for Congressional review. Allows FEMA to utilize National Flood Insurance Funds to reimburse policyholders who successfully appeal a map determination. Eliminates the 50 percent cap on state and local contributions to levee construction and reconstruction. Protects the so-called "basement exception," which allows the lowest proofed opening in a home to be used for determining flood insurance rates. Establishes a Flood Insurance Rate Map Advocate within FEMA to answer current and prospective policyholder questions about the flood mapping process. Requires FEMA to certify that the agency has fully adopted a modernized risk-based approach to analyzing flood risk. The bipartisan deal comes after several weeks of negotiations with Democrats and Republicans in the House and Senate. On October 9, in the midst of the government shutdown, Waters convened a bipartisan meeting of nearly 20 House Members, as well as Senate staff, to build consensus around an agreement to delay and fix the program. ###
10.31.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, offered the following statement in reaction to the failure of the U.S. Senate to invoke cloture on Melvin L. Watt as Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency. "I am extremely disappointed that the U.S. Senate has blocked the nomination of Mel Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). Mel has over four decades of experience on issues related to housing and housing finance. He is highly respected on both sides of the aisle and well-regarded as a legislator focused on openness, collaboration and good public policy. And he knows how to get things done. In short, we need a leader like Mel – thoughtful, well-informed, principled and fair – to ensure the FHFA remains focused on the long-term stability of the economy and the housing finance system. "It is virtually unprecedented for a sitting Member of Congress to be rejected by the U.S. Senate. Blocking the nomination of someone as qualified as Mel Watt has deprived the FHFA of a strong leader who is much needed to confront the challenges that lie ahead. I do not believe we could find anyone better than Mel Watt to do this job." ###
10.28.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered the keynote address at the Los Angeles Business Council's Mayoral Housing, Transportation & Jobs Summit that took place at UCLA's Korn Convocation Hall on Friday, Oct.18. Hosted by the UCLA Anderson School of Business, the Summit, now in its 12th year, is a gathering of top business leaders and elected officials. A long-time proponent of increasing affordable housing to create sustainable communities, Congresswoman Waters discussed a variety of housing and housing finance issues with the group of hundreds that were on hand. "As you know, after several brutal years in the wake of the financial crisis, our housing recovery is continuing to take shape," said Congresswoman Waters in her remarks. "Home prices dropped precipitously from 2007 through 2011, but are now stabilizing or even rising in many markets, including Los Angeles." Congresswoman Waters also talked about the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) in which she authored. NSP has provided funding for municipalities and non-profit organizations to purchase and redevelop foreclosed or abandoned properties so they don't further depress housing prices or lead to neighborhood blight. In three rounds of funding Los Angeles has received over $142 million in NSP funds, which is projected to create more than 1,800 jobs and positively rehabilitate 1,800 properties. Los Angeles County has received more than $26 million in NSP funds, which is projected to impact 109 properties and 337 jobs. "I am proud to have authored the NSP legislation, and I'm even more proud of the program's remarkable record of success," said Congresswoman Waters. "Since 2008, HUD has distributed nearly $7 billion through NSP, which it estimates will impact more than 100,000 properties in areas hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis. Already, nearly 55,000 properties have been treated after three rounds of funding. " Congresswoman Waters also discussed her plans to reform the housing finance market and address Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. She also mentioned the across-the-board cuts known as "sequestration," which have significantly impacted federally-funded housing and community development programs. ###
10.24.2013	In the wake of massive money laundering scandals at U.S. banks that allowed terrorist, drug and other illicit money to flow through the U.S. economy, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), the top Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, introduced legislation to strengthen U.S. anti-money laundering laws, close loopholes, encourage the flow of information, and give financial regulators enhanced civil powers to hold bank executives accountable for misconduct on their watch. Entitled the "Holding Individuals Accountable and Deterring Money Laundering Act," the legislation would strengthen the government's ability to go after individuals for violations of the Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), which requires U.S. financial institutions to work with government agencies to detect and prevent money laundering. Among other provisions, the bill makes bank executives personally liable for misconduct and gives regulators the tools to remove or permanently ban from the industry top bankers who violate the law. Recent enforcement actions against a number of banks revealed how some systematically violated the Bank Secrecy Act in order to increase profits. Although a number of record fines were levied against some of these institutions, no bank executives have been held responsible for any violations. "A number of recent, high-profile cases show how several multinational banks actively turned off anti-money laundering controls to accommodate terrorist financing and drug cartels," said Waters. "The Justice Department and federal agencies have levied a number of record-breaking fines against these banks, but not a single individual has been held accountable," Waters added. "And yet thousands of men and women — many non-violent offenders who played no role in drug cartels — remain in prison today for drug offenses far less serious than the banks that allowed hundreds of millions in drug proceeds to flow through the U.S. economy. My bill, in part, seeks to correct that injustice by making it easier to go after unscrupulous bankers and mandating punishments as strict as those the imposed on the drug dealers themselves." For individuals convicted of willfully evading an institution's BSA program or controls, the bill raises the current cap of five years on the maximum term of imprisonment to 20 years, ensuring parity with the prison terms under current law for individuals convicted of laundering monetary instruments. For over 20 years, Congresswoman Waters has been a leader in the fight against the unfair mandatory minimum sentencing laws that have sent tens of thousands of low-level drug offenders to prison over nearly thirty years. Last month, Waters hosted a panel discussion at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's Annual Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C., which featured U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder as the keynote speaker. The panel discussed the failed and unfair mandatory minimum sentencing policies for low-level drug offenders and urged a more effective approach focusing on efforts to target money laundering and major drug traffickers. The Waters legislation is supported by a number of investor and civil society organizations, including labor unions, financial watchdog and good governance groups. These include AFL-CIO, Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington (CREW), Global Financial Integrity, Global Witness, Government Accountability Project, Human Rights Watch, Jubilee USA Network, Oxfam America, U.S. Public Interest Research Group (U.S. PIRG). More information on the legislation can be found here. ###
10.24.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) was awarded the inaugural Judge Harry Pregerson Public Service Award by U.S. VETS on Thursday, Oct. 17th. This award honors individuals who have made outstanding contributions to the veterans' community and whose accomplishments can be viewed as models of public service within and outside the work environment. The award was presented to Congresswoman Waters at the U.S.VETS Annual Dinner in Los Angeles. "It is absolutely appropriate that Congresswoman Waters be the first recipient of this prestigious award," said Stephen J. Peck, president and CEO of U.S.VETS. "Her dedication and energy has improved the lives of thousands of veterans in her district and across the nation." "I am truly honored to receive this special recognition from U.S. VETS. U.S. VETS is indeed a very special and important initiative dedicated to ensuring a better quality of life for our homeless and at-risk veterans," said Congresswoman Waters. "With 11 facilities across the country, including Inglewood which is located in my district, they have provided essential services such as employment assistance, job placement, and counseling to veterans every day." Congresswoman Waters is a longstanding advocate for veterans. She took an active role in advocating for a facility in her district that provides primary and mental healthcare to veterans in the Greater Los Angeles area. Because of her advocacy, the Gardena Community Based Outpatient Clinic was established in the city of Gardena. Congresswoman Waters also fought for the creation of The Center for Women Veterans in the Department of Veterans Affairs by authoring legislation that created the first women's bureau within the Department. She has been a constant presence at the veterans' centers in her district and supporter of their programs. For the past decade, Congresswoman Waters has provided transportation to thousands of veterans in the Greater Los Angeles area to attend Hawthorne's VFW Post 2075 annual Thanksgiving Day dinner for veterans. "Veterans are one of my top priorities and I will always dedicate my staff, my office and my time to honor and respect those brave men and women in uniform who have given their time and their lives to protect our ideals, our democracy and our country," added Congresswoman Waters. ###
10.22.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement on the passing of former Congressman Major Owens who represented New York‘s 11th Congressional District: "For more than two decades, Congressman Major Owens served the citizens of Brooklyn, New York in the United States Congress. He was a humble man of great character and dedicated his life to public service. Congressman Owens was an extremely important member of the U.S. House of Representatives, who was an expert in education policy. In Congress, he fought to secure $100 million in federal funds for historically black colleges and spearheaded efforts to increase federal involvement in reducing high school dropout rates. "Congressman Owens used his position within the halls of Congress and in the community to ensure that every American lived a better life. Congressman Owens provided leadership within the Congressional Black Caucus fighting for the rights of minorities in addition to advocating for workers and the poor and middle class families. Congressman Owens was also an advocate for disabled Americans playing an instrumental role in passing the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 in Congress. "It was an honor to serve with him as a colleague and a privilege to know him as a dear friend. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife, Maria and his family during this very difficult time." ###
10.16.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement following the House of Representatives vote on legislation to raise the debt limit and end the government shutdown."I'm pleased that Congress has finally voted to end this unnecessary government shutdown and debt limit crisis. However, I remain concerned that the resolution passed today only opens the government and extends the debt ceiling for a precious few months. "The resolution extends the continuing resolution through January 15 and suspends the debt limit until February 7. We in Congress cannot again disrupt people's lives in this manner. The government shutdown caused financial hardship for hundreds of thousands of workers and their families. Homebuying slowed significantly, Head Start centers across the nation closed their doors, and federal agencies halted the important work of implementing and enforcing the Wall Street Reform Act. Our country cannot afford another event of this magnitude. "In addition, continued uncertainty around the nation's willingness to pay its bills is dangerous for our economy and markets. Just the prospect of defaulting on the full faith and credit of the United States sent shockwaves through the financial markets. Businesses large and small have already started to cut back and consumer confidence has dropped precipitously. "These types of manufactured crises cannot become commonplace in our political system. The pain inflicted on the economy – and the American people – is far too severe. Despite the trauma of this impasse, the problems needing resolution remain. Deep cuts in discretionary spending known as ‘sequestration' remain in place, which is hurting many essential federal programs. If we cannot quickly proceed with a constructive discussion that incorporates both budget cuts and revenue enhancements, there are more difficult times to come." ###
10.15.2013	Today, leading Democratic lawmakers called on financial institutions to work proactively with their customers facing financial distress as a result of the shutdown of the Federal Government. Fourteen days into the shutdown, many employees have now seen their first diminished paycheck, leaving them facing short-term financial hardship and possible long-term damage to their creditworthiness through no fault of their own. Led by Congresswoman Maxine Waters, 30 Democrats including Minority Whip Steny Hoyer and Chris Van Hollen have introduced a concurrent resolution urging institutions such as banks and consumer reporting agencies to work proactively with customers affected by the shutdown. The resolution calls on them to identify customers that have been affected and to adopt flexible, prudent arrangements to help them meet their debt obligations. For example, the resolution urges institutions to consider temporarily waiving or reducing penalties for late payments. Importantly, it also urges these institutions to work with their customers to protect the affected employees' creditworthiness. "The shutdown of the Federal Government has forced thousands of people into financial distress through no fault of their own," said Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. "Financial institutions should not penalize – or profit from – those affected by these difficult circumstances." "The current shutdown is reckless and irresponsible," said Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD). "We should reopen the government immediately and stop playing political games with the full faith and credit of the United States. However, until that happens, we are adding our voice to the recent guidance put out by our nation's top regulators calling on our financial institutions to work in good faith with their customers who may be experiencing short term financial hardship during this shutdown through absolutely no fault of their own. It makes sense for everyone financially and is the right thing to do." "The partisan actions of some in Congress have caused this reckless shutdown, creating real financial strain on the residents of Northern Virginia, and those across the nation, who work directly for, contract with, or receive benefits from the federal government," said Rep. Gerald E. Connolly (D-VA). "I commend those financial institutions that already are offering payment flexibility for those who were furloughed earlier in the year as a result of the painful cuts of sequestration, and I encourage all banks, credit unions, and related financial institutions to pursue similar arrangements as a result of this current situation." "Every day, I am hearing from federal workers from across my district about the financial hardships they are facing due to this government shutdown," said Congresswoman Donna F. Edwards (D-MD). "For federal workers who have experienced three years of a pay freeze, and sequestration that forced many to take unpaid furloughs earlier this year, they should not be penalized now by their financial institutions due to circumstances beyond their control. I thank Congresswoman Waters for her leadership on this important issue to protect the creditworthiness of federal workers during this difficult time." Original cosponsors to the legislation include: Minority Whip, Steny Hoyer, Rep. Chris Van Hollen, Rep. Gerry Connelly, Rep. Donna F. Edwards, Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton, Rep. Jim Moran, Rep. Carolyn Maloney, Rep. Melvin Watt, Rep. Brad Sherman, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, Rep. Michael E. Capuano, Rep. Ruben Hinojosa, Rep. William Lacy Clay, Rep. Stephen Lynch, Rep. David Scott, Rep. Al Green, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, Rep. Gwen Moore, Rep. Keith Ellison, Rep. Ed Perlmutter, Rep. Jim Himes, Rep. John Carney, Rep. Terri Sewell, Rep. Bill Foster, Rep. Dan Kildee, Rep. Patrick Murphy, Rep. John Delaney, Rep. Joyce Beatty, and Rep. Denny Heck. ###
10.10.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, reiterated her support for free, fair, and timely elections in Haiti during a hearing yesterday, in the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, entitled "Haiti: Is U.S. Aid Effective?" She addressed her comments to Thomas C. Adams, Haiti Special Coordinator for the U.S. State Department, who was testifying at the hearing. "Without good governance, foreign aid is unlikely to result in long-term economic and social development for the Haitian people," said Congresswoman Waters. Free, fair, inclusive, and timely elections are critical for Haiti's economic and social development." Congresswoman Waters reminded Haiti Special Coordinator Adams that she had previously urged support for elections in Haiti in a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry dated October 1st. She asked the Special Coordinator to respond to the concerns expressed in her letter. "There is a widespread rumor within Haiti and among the Haitian diaspora that the Haitian government does not intend to allow the Senators elected in 2009 to serve out their full six-year terms. This rumor has it that the government intends to force these ten Senators to leave office in January of 2014, leaving the Senate completely unable to function, and this renews old concerns about rule by dictatorship," stated the Congresswoman in a section of her letter that she read during today's hearing. During Congresswoman Waters' twelve terms in Congress, she has visited Haiti many times, and she has worked with her colleagues in Congress, State Department officials, Haitian political leaders, and Haitian civil society to promote political stability, democracy, the rule of law, and economic and social development in Haiti. Following the 2010 earthquake, she introduced the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573), which was passed and signed into law by the President. "I urge the State Department to do everything possible to be of assistance to the Haitian government to hold elections consistent with the Haitian Constitution," concluded Congresswoman Waters. To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here. ###
10.09.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement in anticipation of the nomination of Janet Yellen as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. "President Obama's choice in nominating Janet Yellen to lead the Fed is both historic and important for our nation's economy. Ms. Yellen's experience as a former Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, Regional Fed Bank President, and Vice-Chair of the Federal Reserve make her one of the most qualified people ever to be nominated. "Ms. Yellen has demonstrated a unique understanding of the impact of the Federal Reserve's policies on the middle class, particularly the crucial balance between stable prices and low unemployment. During the crisis, she advocated for the urgent need to implement financial reform quickly in order to avoid another meltdown. As Chair, I am hopeful that Ms. Yellen will continue to push for policies that address the still unacceptably high rate of unemployment. "Over the past several years, we have seen Ms. Yellen's judgment on the economy validated time and again. Because predictions about the future strongly impact Fed policies, this is crucially important. When many economists were optimistic about unprecedented growth in the economy – she saw the bubble for what it was and predicted disaster in the banking system. "In addition to her impeccable qualifications, her institutional knowledge and working relationships with current Board members would provide for a smooth transition at a critical time for the U.S. economy. "In the interest of stability at this critical time for our economy, I urge the Senate to quickly confirm Ms. Yellen." Congresswoman Waters has been a longstanding supporter of Janet Yellen for Federal Reserve Chair. In July, she spearheaded a letter signed by 37 of her fellow Democrats, urging President Obama to nominate Ms. Yellen to replace Ben Bernanke as Chairman of the Federal Reserve when his term expires. ###
10.08.2013	In a speech on the floor of the House of Representatives, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today highlighted the serious consequences of the U.S. defaulting on its debt. Waters also urged Republicans to stop using the debt ceiling to push extremist ideology, calling for a vote on a clean debt-limit increase. She delivered the following remarks.As prepared for delivery: "Thank you, Mr. Speaker. I rise today to discuss the irresponsibility of the Republican Party in holding hostage the full faith and credit of the United States. "As hundreds of thousands of federal workers go without pay; as homebuying slows to an eventual halt; and as federal agencies remain unable to complete the important work of implementing the Wall Street Reform Act, Republicans are threatening another crisis that could have significant impacts on our financial markets and the economic security of all Americans. They do this in pursuit of an ideological agenda. The result is continued instability and uncertainty for our economy and fragile recovery. "We should not default on our obligations. The ramifications of doing so would be serious. The underpinnings of the entire financial system could be affected, with the possibility of triggering a financial crisis reminiscent of the days following the failure of Lehman Brothers. Only this time, it could be far worse. "If the U.S. defaults on its debt, lending – the lifeblood of our economy— would dry up. The dollar's value could drop and we could see dramatic increases in interest rates on everything from mortgages and auto loans to credit cards. Not only that, but every US corporation and municipality would likely see their borrowing costs climb as well. Unemployment rates would rise precipitously, just as we are beginning to recover. "If Congress cannot do its job in a timely manner, in the future the government's ability to pay its debts will be looked upon with uncertainty by investors and the markets – leading to higher borrowing costs in the future and, in turn, an increase our nation's deficit. "Worst of all, we could see another dramatic loss of wealth for working Americans. "History tells us that even the threat of default can send shockwaves through our financial system. In 2011, just the prospect of defaulting on our debt caused a drop in consumer and business confidence, a 17 percent decline in the S&P 500 index of equity prices, and increased volatility in the stock market. And, of course, we received a downgrade in U.S. government debt. "The drop in equity caused by the 2011 debt ceiling fight had serious consequences for American families. The months following saw a $2.4 trillion dollar decline in household wealth and an $800 billion dollar drop in retirement assets. The cost of homeownership also increased, as risk-averse lenders increased the cost of borrowing money to purchase a home. "The 2011 debate showed us the very serious consequences of even debating whether we should pay bills already incurred. But no one knows with certainty the full extent of the damage to the economy should the U.S. actually default on its debts. We have heard speculation ranging from the bad to the catastrophic. "I, for one, do not want to find out. "What I do know is that everyone from Wall Street CEOs and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to small business owners and prominent conservative economists are concerned with the significant damage that could result from a debt ceiling standoff. Warren Buffett, Ben Bernanke, Hank Paulson, and the heads of the nation's largest financial institutions have been outspoken about the need to end this hostage crisis now. "Mr. Speaker, the American people have been through enough. We remain in the midst of a government shutdown with no end in sight. It is hurting real people and damaging our economic recovery. "At this tenuous time, defaulting on our nations' debt could create the perfect storm that may roil financial markets and undermine the credibility of the United States. But most importantly, it could be devastating for American families, who are already suffering in the aftermath of a major recession, foreclosure crisis and now, a government shutdown. "I urge my colleagues to stop using the debt ceiling to push extremist ideology and vote now on a clean debt-limit increase. Thank you Mr. Speaker and I yield back the remaining balance of my time." ###
10.08.2013	With only 13 days until the nation reaches its debt limit, and in the aftermath of the Department of Treasury's report on the impact of defaulting on our debt, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today called on Republicans to stop threatening the nation's economy to move their ideological priorities. She released the following statement: "As if the consequences of a government shutdown are not bad enough, Republicans are now threatening to hold the full faith and credit of the United States hostage to advance their ideological agenda. "A default on our obligations would be unprecedented – and could cause catastrophic damage to our financial markets and the economic security of all Americans. The ramifications of breaching the debt limit will affect the underpinnings of the entire financial system, with the possibility of triggering a financial crisis reminiscent of the days following the failure of Lehman Brothers. If the U.S. defaults on its debt, lending, the lifeblood of our economy, would dry up. The dollar's value could drop and we could see dramatic increases in interest rates on everything from mortgages, auto loans, and credit cards. Unemployment rates would dramatically rise, just as we are beginning to recover. Worst of all, we could see another dramatic loss of wealth for working Americans. "Though we know the cost to American families will be significant, no one knows with certainty the full extent of the damage to the economy should the U.S. default on its debts. And I don't want to find out. What we do know is that everyone from Wall Street CEOs and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to small business owners and prominent conservative economists are concerned with the significant damage that could result from a debt ceiling standoff. "The American people have been through enough. This Republican-manufactured crisis is nothing more than a reckless attempt to push extremist ideology. For those who think the consequences of Republican brinksmanship are bad now, this has the potential to get much, much worse." ###
10.02.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, sent a letter to Secretary of State John Kerry today, expressing deep concern about the current political situation in Haiti and requesting that the State Department assist the Haitian government with the holding of elections consistent with the Haitian Constitution. Copies of the letter were sent to Cheryl D. Mills, the State Department's Haiti Envoy, and Thomas C. Adams, Haiti Special Coordinator. The text of the letter follows: I am writing out of deep concern about the political situation in Haiti and to request that the State Department do everything possible to be of assistance to the Haitian government to hold elections consistent with the Haitian Constitution. I am especially concerned about the political challenges currently facing the Haitian Senate. Under the Haitian Constitution, the Senate should consist of thirty Senators, each of whom is elected to serve for six years. However, one third of the seats in the Senate are currently vacant. These ten Senators' terms ended in 2012, and Haiti has yet to hold – or even schedule – elections to replace them. This has forced the Senate to function with only two thirds of its full complement and made it extremely difficult for the Senate to assemble a quorum and conduct legislative business. A second group of ten Senators took office in 2009, and their six-year terms are scheduled to expire in 2015. Unfortunately, it appears that elections to replace these Senators may not be held on schedule either. There is a widespread rumor within Haiti and among the Haitian diaspora that the Haitian government does not intend to allow the Senators elected in 2009 to serve out their full six-year terms. This rumor has it that the government intends to force these ten Senators to leave office in January of 2014, leaving the Senate completely unable to function, and this renews old concerns about rule by dictatorship. Such rumors can be extremely destabilizing in Haiti. Because of the country's past history of dictatorship and political instability, the Haitian people are justifiably suspicious of actions by political leaders that appear to be undemocratic. The failure to hold elections to fill vacancies in the Senate is contributing to fear among the population that democracy may once again be in jeopardy. Free, fair, inclusive, and timely elections are critical for Haiti's economic and social development. As you know, I have worked closely for many years with my colleagues in Congress, the State Department, Haitian political leaders, and civil society to promote political stability, democracy, and the rule of law in Haiti. When I learn of developments that threaten to undermine democracy and the rule of law, I have always tried to make certain that we do everything possible to help Haiti continue in its struggle to become a stable, constitutional democracy. I respectfully request that the State Department encourage Haiti to respect the rights of all Senators to serve out their full six-year terms, organize timely elections to replace Senators and other elected officials at all levels of government whose terms have expired, and take all appropriate action to ensure that the Haitian Senate is able to fulfill its constitutional duties. To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here. ###
10.01.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement on the Republican-imposed government shutdown: "The irresponsibility of the Republican Party cannot be overstated. As we slowly emerge from the worst economic crisis in over 70 years, I am saddened that ideological extremism has led to another self-inflicted wound that could have dire consequences for our fragile recovery. "Even a short shutdown threatens job creation, harms small businesses, and leaves families with uncertainty and instability. Hundreds of thousands of federal employees will be immediately and indefinitely furloughed. Some agencies will be forced to drain reserve funds, while others will close entirely. The SBA will stop approving loans and loan guarantees for small businesses. Housing loans to low and middle income families in rural communities will be put on hold, as will start-up business loans for farmers and ranchers. This will not only harm those seeking these loans, but the small banks that offer them, slowing business and leading to potentially large backlogs. "I am seriously concerned that a shutdown will cause additional delays in the already long overdue implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Furloughs at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission will undermine its ability to regulate the derivatives market – and will likely further postpone the release of several important derivatives trading rules. The Volker Rule, which seeks to end the reckless practice of banks placing high-risk bets with taxpayer dollars, could also be delayed. In addition, 80 percent of the Department of Treasury's employees will be told to stay home. This includes staff at the Office of Foreign Assets Control, which levies sanctions against bad actors, and those at the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN), which deters money laundering by banks and aids local law enforcement efforts. "Republicans are gambling with the American economy to make an ideological point. Each day this shutdown continues risks further irreparable damage to our financial system, our economy and our middle class. It must end now." ###
09.27.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement in response to reports of a likely shortfall in capital reserve funds at the Federal Housing Administration: "During the worst of the crisis, when the private sector virtually left the market, the Federal Housing Administration stepped up and provided the liquidity that kept our struggling housing market afloat. This is the countercyclical role of FHA, as it has been throughout the course of its nearly 80-year history. Despite corrective action taken in recent years, the severity of the financial crisis weakened the health of FHA's Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund. Although this one-time transfer of funds from the Treasury is legally necessary, it's important to note that FHA is far from bankrupt, holding over $30 billion in reserves and continuing to generate revenue. In fact, these funds are only required because FHA is bound by law to hold the revenue necessary to pay any potential claims over the next 30 years, without taking into account future business. Above all, we must strive to have a healthy, viable FHA that can continue to facilitate homeownership for first-time and low-income homebuyers, while standing ready in the unfortunate event of another housing downturn. Since 2010, I have joined the Obama Administration in pushing for comprehensive FHA solvency legislation that would have achieved just that. Unfortunately, obstruction by Senate Republicans prevented any progress. Now, Republicans are focused on the PATH Act, which does not address FHA solvency, instead undercutting the entirety of the program." ###
09.26.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, delivered the following opening statement at today's full Committee hearing on the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, known as TRIA. TRIA was enacted in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, which caused estimated insured losses of $40 billion in current dollars – the largest from a non-natural disaster on record. As a result, many insurers and reinsurers began to exclude terrorism coverage from commercial insurance policies. If coverage was offered at all, it was at a cost that was prohibitively high. To address the problem, in 2002 Congress enacted TRIA. The program makes terrorism insurance both available and affordable – by requiring insurance companies to offer coverage to commercial entities in exchange for a federal backstop that is used to protect against only those terrorism-related losses that exceed $100 million dollars. The program will sunset in 2014. An overwhelming number of stakeholders from a wide range of industries support TRIA's renewal, including the National Association of Realtors, U.S. Chamber of Commerce, International Association of Amusement Parks & Attractions, Jewish Federations of North America, National Conference of Insurance Legislators, U.S. Conference of Mayors, American Hotel and Lodging Association, National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies, the International Council of Shopping Centers and every major national sports league and organization, including the MLB, NFL, NBA, NHL, NCAA, NASCAR and the U.S. Olympic Committee. As prepared for delivery: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to thank Chairman Hensarling for holding this hearing, which is the first in a series focused on the reauthorization of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act, known as TRIA (TREE-A). For more than a decade, TRIA has been nothing short of a qualified success, supporting critical economic growth by ensuring access to terrorism coverage for our largest venues, businesses and employers. The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 forever changed the way we live and do business. In addition to the tragic loss of life and disruptions to our financial system, insurance losses totaled an estimated $40 billion in today's dollars. The enormity of the losses made it financially impossible for many insurers and reinsurers to offer terrorism coverage. Consequently, most fled the market and state insurance regulators allowed providers to exempt terrorism coverage from their policies. Those that did offer coverage did so at a cost that was prohibitively high. As a result, in 2002 Congress stepped in, enacting TRIA. The program makes terrorism insurance both available and affordable – by requiring insurance companies to offer coverage to commercial entities in exchange for a federal backstop – which is used to protect against only those terrorism-related losses that exceed $100 million dollars. By requiring private insurers to offer terrorism coverage, TRIA actually reduces taxpayer exposure because it keeps most of the terrorism risk with the private sector. Without affordable terrorism insurance, many buildings, schools, and venues would remain uninsured against terrorist attacks, meaning that the government likely would pick up 100 percent of the tab for catastrophic losses. The success of the TRIA program has been remarkable, and it has fostered continued economic and commercial real estate development across the U.S. TRIA is strongly supported by a broad coalition of businesses and organizations representing a wide array of industries, including construction, manufacturing, retail, transportation, real estate, sporting and entertainment. Entities from the National Football League to the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to the National Association of Realtors have lauded the program's importance. Support for TRIA is so strong and so widespread that it has been reauthorized twice by the House – both times without controversy and with overwhelming bipartisan support. But as we approach its expiration in 2014, opposition to the quick, clean and long-term renewal of this popular and noncontroversial program remains a mystery to me. While opponents argue that the program inhibits private sector participation, the private sector itself maintains that without TRIA in place, insurers would fall into the same practices that followed the attacks of September 11. This would mean the exclusion of terrorism coverage that would cushion the economic shock of a large terrorist attack or series of attacks – something that remains essential for economic growth and job security. Mr. Chairman, I support reauthorizing TRIA, and I am encouraged by the several proposals on the table to do so. In addition to the bill by Representative Capuano, which I have cosponsored, we have seen bipartisan legislation from Representatives Maloney and Grimm, as well as a bill from Representative Thompson. While each bill differs slightly in form, of the utmost importance is that TRIA is reauthorized quickly, cleanly and for the long-term. I thank you again for holding this hearing and I look forward to the testimony of my colleagues and the other witnesses. I yield back the remainder of my time. ###
09.26.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), the Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, which works to increase awareness of Alzheimer's and strengthen the federal commitment to address the disease, issued the following statement in recognition of Alzheimer's Action Day, which falls on Saturday, September 21, 2013: "As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease, I am proud to join the millions of families who are affected by Alzheimer's to recognize tomorrow as Alzheimer's Action Day. "Alzheimer's disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and it affects over five million American families. One in nine Americans age 65 and older has Alzheimer's, and one in three Americans age 85 and older suffers from this disease. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that more than 7 million Americans over age 65 will have Alzheimer's by the year 2025. Every 68 seconds, another person in the United States develops Alzheimer's. "Last month, I introduced two bills to address the needs of patients with Alzheimer's disease, their families and caregivers. The Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 2975) authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of Alzheimer's patients. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act (H.R. 2976) helps Alzheimer's patients who wander away from their homes and are unable to tell people in the community who they are or where they live. Both bills are supported by the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America and have more than 30 cosponsors, including Rep. Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), my friend and fellow Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease. "On Alzheimer's Action Day, we honor Alzheimer's patients, and we honor the people who love and care for them. Alzheimer's patients deserve a life with dignity. Let us rededicate ourselves to doing all we can to support and assist all those who are affected by this tragic disease." ###
09.18.2013	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), was thrilled to join the U.S. Department of Justice in announcing that the City of Inglewood will receive a $1 million Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Hiring Program grant, to hire eight new law enforcement officers. "More police officers patrolling our streets and protecting our communities is good news for the residents of Inglewood," said Congresswoman Waters. "Local law enforcement is our first line of defense, and these funds will give them the help and support they need. This grant will expand the police force and strengthen their ability to fight crime and apprehend criminals who endanger the City of Inglewood." The COPS Hiring Program offers grants to state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to hire or rehire community policing officers. The program provides salaries and benefits for officer and deputy hires for three years. Grantees for the 2013 hiring program were selected based on their fiscal needs, local crime rates, and community policing plans. The COPS Office is a federal agency responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. Since 1995, COPS has awarded over $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of approximately 125,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training, and technical assistance. Additional information about the 2013 COPS Hiring Program can be found on the COPS website at www.cops.usdoj.gov. ###
09.12.2013	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to eliminate mandatory minimum sentencing, reintroduced the Major Drug Trafficking Prosecution Act (H.R. 3088). This bill would re-focus scarce federal resources to prosecute major drug kingpins and give courts and judges the authority to use greater discretion to make individualized determinations rather than being held to a stringent sentencing requirement prescribed by Congress. This past August, Attorney General Holder announced that he would instruct federal prosecutors to forgo the pursuit of mandatory minimum sentences in certain cases involving low-level, non-violent drug offenders. The Major Drug Trafficking Prosecution Act of 2013 would build on the Attorney General's announcement and codify into law the repeal of mandatory minimums for non-violent offenders so that no one, regardless of the Administration in office, will be subject to these harsh and ineffective sentencing policies. "Although the Justice Department's policy shift is a welcoming step towards more "smart on crime" initiatives, the fight is far from over as long as mandatory minimums still remain in law," said Congresswoman Waters. "Mandatory minimum sentences have not reduced drug use and have contributed to exploding prison populations throughout the United States." According to the Bureau of Prisons, when the Anti-Drug Abuse Act passed in 1986 containing lengthy mandatory minimum sentences, the prison population was 36,000. Today, the federal prison population is over 215,000 prisoners, an increase of nearly 800 percent in 28 years, costing taxpayers approximately $26,000 to keep one prisoner in federal prison for one year. Congresswoman Waters has worked over the last 20 years to raise awareness and educate communities about mandatory minimums and sentencing disparities. On many occasions, Rep. Waters has partnered with organizations such as Families Against Mandatory Minimums (FAMM), the Open Society Institute, Drug Policy Alliance, and the Sentencing Project during these forums. She also worked alongside courageous advocates such as Professor Charles Ogletree and Kemba Smith, who was sentenced to serve a mandatory minimum before she was commuted under the Clinton Administration. "Mandatory drug sentences have broken communities and destroyed lives. Mandatory minimums are not only ineffective, but they are also in direct contradiction with our fundamental principles of justice and the rule of law," added Congresswoman Waters. "It time for us to renew the call to action and continue the fight for the full repeal of these substandard sentencing policies." ###
09.11.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement on the 12th anniversary of the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001: "Twelve years ago today, our country changed forever. No matter how many years pass, we will never forget the thousands of lives lost in New York, Pennsylvania and at the Pentagon on that Tuesday morning, September 11, 2001. As we observe this solemn twelfth anniversary, we pause to honor and remember the men, women and children whose lives were lost in this appalling act of violence. "We extend our deepest sympathies to their families, friends and loved ones, and salute the courage exhibited by the first responders, volunteers and others who rushed into crumbling buildings to save lives and sacrificed their own lives. We are forever indebted to them for their courage. To the brave service members in our Armed Forces, who continue to protect us, here and abroad, we remain grateful for their sacrifices. "Each and every year on this National Day of Service and Remembrance, we should rededicate ourselves to the ideals that unite us as Americans and revive all that has made our nation a beacon of hope and human dignity to the world." ###
09.04.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement on her position on the United States response to the Syrian regime use of chemical weapons: "I am pleased that President Obama is seeking congressional authorization before taking limited military action in Syria in response to the use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime on its own people. There are still many unanswered questions, such as what limited military action would entail, what will be the targets, what United States national interests are at stake, whether President Obama has pursued all possible diplomatic alternatives to military action, and whether military action by the U.S. will have the support of the international community. I am also deeply concerned about how U.S. military action will impact the civilian population of Syria. I will continue to listen to the concerns of my constituents and evaluate information from the Administration, as well as look forward to the completion of the United Nations investigation before making a final decision." ###
08.29.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today released the following statement expressing her continued commitment to the people of the Gulf Region, many of whom are still dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina. "On the eighth anniversary of the landfall of Hurricane Katrina, I stand with the people of the Gulf Region in remembrance of this terrible day, as I have stood with them since those first painful days after the storm hit. I have been an advocate for the preservation and replacement of affordable housing in New Orleans. I have fought to protect those who were homeless and displaced after the storm. I have pushed for resources to redevelop devastated areas and to improve temporary living conditions for those putting their lives back together. And I have worked to help the least fortunate – from displaced public housing residents to homeowners struggling with the Road Home Program to ensuring that renters throughout the Region are not left behind. "To further help the Gulf community continue down the road to recovery, I also worked across the aisle on the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform law, which was designed to restore stability to the National Flood Insurance Program. However, I recognize that there have been unintended consequences, which I am committed to fixing. It was never the intent of Congress to impose the types of excessive rate insurance hikes currently faced by some residents of southern Louisiana. I am actively working with my colleagues in Congress and with the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) to solve this problem. It is important that this law ended the spate of lapses and temporary extensions that precluded FEMA from writing new policies, renewing expiring ones or increasing coverage limits. "While the people of the Gulf Coast have made great progress in the eight years since Hurricane Katrina, there remains a great deal to accomplish. We must fully fund the Community Development Block Grant program, which communities throughout our nation—especially those in the Gulf Region—use to fund economic development activities. The harmful effects of sequestration on this and other housing programs must be brought to an end. "I congratulate the people of the Gulf Region for their bravery, courage, and determination to rebuild over these past eight years. And, as I have ever been, I remain their partner in working to address these and other concerns to ensure that the Region makes a full recovery." As Chairwoman of the Committee on Financial Services' Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, Ranking Member Waters became a steadfast advocate for addressing the housing needs of people impacted by Hurricane Katrina. In addition to sponsoring Katrina relief legislation, she stood up for survivors in opposition to the harmful housing policies of the Bush Administration. She has been a tireless advocate to preserve public housing, calling on administrative agencies to preserve and rebuild affordable housing for residents. She also worked on a one-on-one basis with displaced Katrina evacuees – holding several on-the-ground meetings in Houston and around New Orleans – to help them return to New Orleans through public or other affordable housing. Finally, she is an original cosponsor and strong supporter of bipartisan legislation designed to improve the Biggert-Waters Act by ensuring that the implementation of new flood insurance rates does not unduly burden homeowners or slow the recovery of our housing market. ###
08.28.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement in honor of the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom: "Today marks the 50th anniversary of the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, when more than 250,000 people came to our nation's capital to demand equality for all Americans and Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. gave his historic ‘I Have a Dream' Speech that inspired a nation. On this important anniversary, I am reminded of the civil rights leaders and heroes, and the sacrifices that were made. Let us honor the legacy of those leaders like Dr. King, Rev. Jesse Jackson, Sr., Bayard Rustin and my colleague Congressman John Lewis, who fought for us to be equal as citizens and called for an end to discriminatory laws and practices. "The March on Washington was a defining moment of the Civil Rights Movement. It pushed President Johnson and leaders in Congress to pass the most comprehensive civil rights protections in our Nation's history: The 1964 Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act of 1965 that put in place sweeping new protections for African-Americans. "I was honored to speak at the Urban League and The Memorial Foundation's Redeem the Dream Summit last weekend in Washington. In my remarks, I encouraged attendees that we must use our time and energy not only to appreciate the leaders of the Civil Rights Movement, but to understand the context in which we must place our actions. "While we celebrate all that has been achieved since 1963, we recognize that the "dream" has not been completely fulfilled and the battle for justice is ongoing. Five decades later, we are still fighting for equal access to quality education, good jobs, fair housing, protecting the right to vote, and equal justice under the law. What drove more than a quarter million Americans to the Lincoln Memorial 50 years ago was because they wanted to see change. We must rededicate ourselves to that fight for freedom and continue the call for universal equality and justice for all. We must continue to strive until Dr. King's vision is finally realized and America fully lives up to its true promise and ideals." ###
08.12.2013	"I am very pleased with Attorney General Holder's announcement today that federal prosecutors will no longer pursue draconian mandatory minimum prison sentences in cases involving low-level, non-violent drug offenders who have no ties to large-scale gangs and cartels. The Justice Department's policy shift largely adopts core components of legislation that I've introduced consistently for nearly 15 years – the Major Drug Traffickers Prosecution Act – and is the culmination of the tireless efforts among reform advocates who have spent many years in the courts, Congress, and town halls across the country raising awareness about the impact of crack-cocaine and harsh sentencing policies on African American and Latino communities. I remain hopeful that along with today's announcement, and the emerging bipartisan consensus on over-criminalization, we will have the support we need in Congress to remove these failed sentencing policies from the federal code. "In the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986, and at the height of the public outcry over crack-cocaine following the tragic death of college basketball star Len Bias, Congress acted hastily, without sufficient hearings or research, and enacted hard line anti-drug penalties that targeted low-level drug offenders. These statutes included new, long mandatory minimum sentences for such offenders. Twenty-seven years later, mandatory drug sentences have broken communities and destroyed lives. The result has been the incarceration of thousands of low level drug offenders – most of whom are minorities – and an exponential boom in the Federal prison population. According to U.S. Sentencing Commission figures, no class of drug is as racially skewed as crack in terms of numbers of offenses. According to the Sentencing Commission, 79 percent of 5,669 sentenced crack offenders in 2009 were African American, versus 10 percent who were Caucasian and 10 percent who were Hispanic. "According to the Bureau of Prisons, when the 1986 drug law containing lengthy mandatory minimum sentences passed, the prison population was 36,000. Today, the federal prison population is over 215,000 prisoners, an increase of nearly 800 percent in 28 years. It costs taxpayers approximately $26,000 to keep one prisoner in federal prison for one year. "For this reason, I have worked over the last 20 years to raise awareness and traveled across the country to educate communities about cocaine sentencing disparities and mandatory minimums. I have also hosted many workshops on the subject during the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's Annual Legislative Conference. On many occasions, I have partnered with organizations such as Families Against Mandatory Minimums (FAMM), the Open Society Institute, Drug Policy Alliance, and the Sentencing Project during these forums. I have also worked alongside courageous advocates such as Professor Charles Ogletree and Kemba Smith, who was sentenced to serve a mandatory minimum before she was commuted under the Clinton Administration. I have also consistently introduced legislation in Congress that would reverse the effects of mandatory minimum prison sentences. "This Congress, I plan to re-introduce the Major Drug Traffickers Prosecution Act of 2013. This bill is similar to previous legislation that I have introduced since 1999, and it would codify into law the policy that Attorney General Holder announced today so that no one, regardless of the Administration in office, will again be subject to harsh mandatory minimums. The Major Drug Traffickers Prosecution Act of 2013 will: curb federal prosecutions of low-level and non-violent drug offenders; re-focus scarce federal resources to prosecute major drug kingpins, and give courts and judges greater discretion to place drug users on probation or suspend the sentence entirely. Under this bill, judges will be able to make individualized determinations and take into account a defendant's individual and unique circumstances rather than being held to a stringent sentencing requirement prescribed by Congress. "I look forward to working with the Administration and my colleagues in Congress as we continue our joint efforts to reform the criminal justice system and focus federal resources on major drug traffickers and their funding streams." ###
08.07.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today released the following statement in response to President Barack Obama's speech outlining his plan for housing finance reform in Phoenix. "I'm pleased that the President is making housing finance reform a top priority, and has outlined an approach that is consistent with our recently-released House Financial Services Committee Democratic Principles. Democrats in the House have been taking this effort very seriously for quite some time and stand ready to work with the President on reforming our nation's housing finance system in a way that protects homeowners, taxpayers, and renters and maintains the affordability of the 30-year fixed rate mortgage. Unfortunately, House Republicans have politicized housing finance reform, by passing unworkable legislation out of the Committee that completely ignores the robust and substantive discussions happening among other stakeholders. Further, by stalling the confirmation of Representative Mel Watt for Federal Housing Finance Agency Director, Senate Republicans are again denying the President the ability to put in place his selection to lead the agency through the transition. I look forward to working with the President and serious partners in the House and Senate on this important issue." ###
08.01.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) has been named the new Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's disease. She will lead the Caucus as the Democratic Co-Chair, alongside the Republican Co-Chair, Congressman Chris Smith (NJ-04). "I am honored to be named Co-Chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's disease," said Rep. Waters, "and I look forward to working with Rep. Chris Smith to promote policies that will advance Alzheimer's research, develop treatment methods, and improve the quality of life for Alzheimer's patients and their families." Congresswoman Waters succeeds Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA) as Co-Chair, following his swearing in as Senator from Massachusetts. Because of Congresswoman Waters' longstanding support both for those suffering from Alzheimer's as well as their caregivers, Rep. Smith considered her to be the obvious choice to assume the Democratic Co-Chair position. "As we continue to push for key initiatives to assist those suffering from Alzheimer's disease, I am pleased to welcome Rep. Maxine Waters as the new Co-Chair of the Alzheimer's Disease Task Force," said Rep. Smith, who joined then-Rep. Ed Markey in creating the Task Force in 1999. "Rep. Waters has worked over the years on caregiver support programs that are vital to the 15 million Americans providing care and support for their loved ones with dementia." The Task Force works to increase awareness of Alzheimer's, strengthen the federal commitment to improving the lives of those affected by the disease, and assist the caregivers who provide their needed support. The Alzheimer's community strongly supports the announcement of Congresswoman Waters as the new co-chair of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease. "We welcome Representative Maxine Waters (D-CA) as the new co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease," said Robert Egge, Vice President of Public Policy and Advocacy for the Alzheimer's Association. "As the lead sponsor of the Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act and the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act, Representative Waters has been a leader on Alzheimer's legislation in Congress. We look forward to working with both Representatives Smith and Waters on taking important steps to further implement the National Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease." Alzheimer's disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and it affects over five million American families. One in nine Americans age 65 and older has Alzheimer's, and one in three Americans age 85 and older suffers from this disease. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that more than 7 million Americans over age 65 will have Alzheimer's by the year 2025. Every 68 seconds, another person in the United States develops Alzheimer's. The Task Force spearheaded three initiatives this week that will assist patients with Alzheimer's disease and the caregivers that support them: • Introduced the Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act which authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Most people suffering from Alzheimer's disease live at home under the care of family and friends and more than 15 million Americans provide unpaid care for a person with Alzheimer's disease or another form of dementia. • Urged the Director and Chief Medical Officer of the Center for Clinical Standards and Quality at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Patrick Conway, M.D., MSc, to reverse an ill conceived proposal that will deny Medicare coverage of positron emission tomography (PET) amyloid-beta (A?) imaging for individuals with dementia or neurodegenerative disease. The co-chairs state that "we were very discouraged by the determination and believe it runs counter to the goals we share of preventing and effectively treating Alzheimer's disease by 2025. Better diagnosis of Alzheimer's allows individuals with the disease and their caregivers to consider all medical and non-medical treatments and supports, including participation in clinical trials." • Introduced the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act which reauthorizes a Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander and reunite them with their families. According to the Alzheimer's Association, about 60 percent of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander and this program continues to save law enforcement officials valuable time, reduce unintentional injuries and deaths among Alzheimer's patients, and bring peace of mind to their families. Reps. Smith and Waters have previously worked together to secure funding for the Alzheimer's Disease Supportive Services Program (ADSSP), the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and the Peer Reviewed Alzheimer's Research program at the Department of Defense. "I look forward to working with Maxine and the more than 150 members of the bi-partisan, bicameral task force on behalf of patients with Alzheimer's disease from New Jersey and across the country to Maxine's home state of California," said Rep. Smith. "Alzheimer's disease is a tragic disease, and it has a devastating impact on millions of American families. I welcome the opportunity to work more closely with all of the members of the task force to assist Alzheimer's patients and their families," said Rep. Waters. ###
07.31.2013	Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters, today joined by 37 of her fellow Democrats, delivered a letter urging President Obama to nominate Janet Yellen, current Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, to replace Ben Bernanke as Chairman of the Federal Reserve when his term expires. The letter notes that Vice Chairman Yellen has "demonstrated a unique understanding of the impact of the Federal Reserve's policies on the middle-class" and that, "during the subprime bubble, at a time when many economists were optimistic about unprecedented growth in the economy, she saw the bubble for what it was and predicted disaster in the banking system." Given the continued importance that the Federal Reserve's monetary policy will have on our nation's economic recovery, and the increased regulatory responsibility provided to the Federal Reserve under the Wall Street Reform Act, it is crucial to have a thoughtful and deliberate leader succeed Mr. Bernanke as Chairman of the Board. Vice Chairman Yellen's institutional knowledge of the Fed and her working relationships with her colleagues, make her the ideal candidate to fill this position. Signers of the letter included Representatives Maxine Waters, Diana DeGette, Grace F. Napolitano, Anna G. Eshoo, Betty McCollum, Barbara Lee, Doris O. Matsui, Carol Shea-Porter, Corrine Brown, Donna F. Edwards, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Eleanor Holmes Norton, Frederica S. Wilson, Gloria Negrete McLeod, Gwen Moore, Jackie Speier, Janice D. Schakowsky, Joyce Beatty, Judy Chu, Kathy Castor, Linda Sánchez, Lois Frankel, Loretta Sanchez, Lousie McIntosh Slaughter, Marcia L. Fudge, Marcy Kaptur, Michelle Lujan Grisham, Nydia M. Velázquez, Robin Kelly, Rosa L. DeLauro, Sheila Jackson Lee, Susan A. Davis, Tulsi Gabbard, Zoe Lofgren, Yvette D. Clarke, Janice Hahn, Lucille Roybal-Allard, and Julia Brownley. Full text of the letter is below. July 31, 2013 President Barack Obama The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: As you consider possible candidates to replace the esteemed Ben Bernanke as Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve, we strongly encourage you to consider current Board Vice Chairman Janet Yellen for this important position. In her tenure on the board, Vice Chairman Yellen has served excellently in both her duties as a regulator of America's financial institutions and as a steward of our nation's monetary policy. Her institutional knowledge and working relationships with current Board members would provide for a smooth transition at a time when financial markets and middle class Americans are counting on the Federal Open Markets Committee to demonstrate thoughtful and deliberate leadership to steer our economy on the road to a full economic recovery. Vice Chairman Yellen's academic resume is impressive. She graduated Summa Cum Laude from Brown University with a degree in economics and earned a doctorate in Economics from Yale University. She has lectured at Harvard University, the University of California at Berkley and the London School of Economics. In addition to her academic work, she served the public as Chair of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers and has worked for the Federal Reserve in several capacities, including as Chief Executive of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and current Vice Chair of the Board. Doctor Yellen has demonstrated a unique understanding of the impact of the Federal Reserve's policies on the middle class, with a critical focus on the crucial balance of the mandate between stable prices and low unemployment. During the subprime bubble, at a time when many economists were optimistic about unprecedented growth in the economy, she saw the bubble for what it was and predicted disaster in the banking system. Just as importantly, she has demonstrated an understanding of the impact of the financial crisis on average Americans and the urgent need to implement financial reform quickly in order to prevent another meltdown. Her leadership on the Board and willingness to work with industry stakeholders, other prudential regulators, and consumer advocates to establish effective and workable regulations has improved market stability while ensuring that credit remains available to consumers and small businesses in this challenging economic climate. For these reasons, we request that you nominate Vice Chairman Yellen to succeed Chairman Bernanke. We are confident that she is the best choice to lead the Board as it continues to ensure the growth and stability of the American economy for the benefit of all. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Diana DeGette Grace F. Napolitano Anna G. Eshoo Betty McCollum Barbara Lee Doris O. Matsui Carol Shea-Porter Corrine Brown Donna F. Edwards Eddie Bernice Johnson Eleanor Holmes Norton Frederica S. Wilson Gloria Negrete McLeod Gwen Moore Jackie Speier Janice D. Schakowsky Joyce Beatty Judy Chu Julia Brownley Kathy Castor Linda Sánchez Lois Frankel Loretta Sanchez Lousie McIntosh Slaughter Marcia L. Fudge Marcy Kaptur Michelle Lujan Grisham Nydia M. Velázquez Robin Kelly Rosa L. DeLauro Sheila Jackson Lee Susan A. Davis Tulsi Gabbard Zoe Lofgren Yvette D. Clarke Janice Hahn Lucille Roybal-Allard ###
07.29.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) and the U.S. Housing & Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Shaun Donovan will host a meeting with the mayors and city council members from the cities of Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood, Lawndale, Lomita and Torrance, and key stakeholders for a discussion about the ongoing impact of sequestration on local communities. The discussion will focus on the effect of sequestration on homelessness prevention programs, Community Development Block Grants (CDBG), the Housing Choice Voucher Program (Section 8), and the closure of multifamily HUD offices. The meeting will take place at the Grant Nakaoka Center in Gardena, CA. This meeting is invitation-only and is closed to the public and the media. There will be a press availability immediately following the meeting with Congresswoman Waters and the local elected officials.WHO: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) U.S. Housing & Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan Mayor Pro-Tem Dan Medina, Gardena Mayor Danny Juarez, Hawthorne Mayor James Butts, Inglewood Mayor Harold Hofmann, Lawndale Mayor Margaret Estrada, Lomita Mayor Frank Scotto, Torrance City council members Additional key stakeholders WHAT: Meeting about the ongoing impacts of sequestration on local communities WHEN: Monday, July 29, 2013, 2:30 - 3:30pm WHERE: Grant Nakaoka Center 1670 W. 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247 MEDIA: The meeting is invitation-only and is not open to the public or media. There will be a press availability immediately following the meeting with Congresswoman Waters and the local elected officials.
07.29.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will host a roundtable discussion and update on California's implementation of the Affordable Care Act (ACA). As the October 1st start date for ACA open enrollment rapidly approaches, Congresswoman Waters will be joined by key stakeholders from both public and private sector organizations that will play primary roles in successful implementation. The roundtable is invitation-only and will take place at the Lawndale Community Center. Members of the news media are invited to attend. WHO: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Representatives from the following organizations and government agencies: AARP California Alliance for Retired Americans Insure the Uninsured Project California's Black Women's Health Project Small Business Majority Charles R. Drew Medical Society Department of Labor Employee Benefits Security Administration Los Angeles County Department of Health Services Community Clinic Association of Los Angeles County South Bay Family Health Care Latino Coalition for a Healthy California Covered California Small Business Administration California Endowment Harbor-UCLA Medical Center Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Community Health Councils Los Angeles County Medical Association and more WHAT: Roundtable Discussion on California's Implementation of the Affordable Care Act WHEN: Monday, July 29, 2013, 9:00 - 11:30am WHERE: Lawndale Community Center Meeting Room 2 14700 Burin Ave. Lawndale, CA 90260 NOTE: This roundtable is invitation-only and is not open to the public. Members of the news media are invited to attend. # # #
07.25.2013	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee released the following statement in response to committee passage of the inaptly-named "Protecting American Taxpayers and Homeowners Act" or "PATH Act" (H.R. 2767). H.R. 2767 is a Republican bill that would unwind Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and remove any government support from the secondary mortgage market. However, because the bill would remove a government guarantee, it would end the affordable 30-year fixed rate mortgage and have negative impacts on the middle class, community banks and credit unions, the housing market, and America's taxpayers. "Housing finance reform is a serious undertaking and American taxpayers deserve a thoughtful, bipartisan approach to such an important issue. I am committed to working with all of my Democratic colleagues to preserve the 30-year fixed rate mortgage and support affordable rental housing. Whenever the Chairman is ready to take housing finance reform seriously, I am ready to work with him too." Democrats support affordable housing and the vote against this bill echoes testimony the Committee received last week from consumer advocates, homebuilders, mortgage bankers, community banks, credit unions, realtors, and the multi-family housing community, all of whom are opposed to the bill. Ranking Member Waters led Democratic opposition to the bill, noting that a "government guarantee was necessary to preserve the affordable, American 30-year fixed rate mortgage. And this bill fails on that crucial goal." Despite today's markup, Ranking Member Waters will continue to press forward on serious reform of the nation's housing finance system. ###
07.19.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading advocate in Congress for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing and treatment, today celebrated National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day and encouraged the nation's health care providers to promote HIV testing among their patients. "National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day is an excellent opportunity to highlight the important role that doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians play in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, and treatment efforts and to encourage clinicians to promote HIV testing among their patients," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution, H.Res. 309, in honor of the sixth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, and 25 Members of Congress cosponsored her resolution. The resolution urges physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. "There are over one million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and 18% of them do not know it. By encouraging their patients to be tested for HIV, doctors and nurses can enable infected individuals to access appropriate medical care and begin taking action to avoid spreading the virus to others," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is a leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998. On April 16th of this year, she sent a letter to the House Appropriations Committee requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2014, which was signed by 54 of her colleagues. Earlier this year, she reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 895), a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons; H.R. 895 is cosponsored by 31 of her colleagues. ###
07.19.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after House Republicans voted today for the 38th time to repeal all or part of the Affordable Care Act. The "Authority for Mandate Delay Act" (H.R. 2667) passed by a margin of 264 to 161 and the "Fairness for American Families Act" (H.R. 2668) passed 251 to 174: "It was just two months ago that House Republicans made their 37th vote to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Today, the House of Representatives voted yet again to do away with critical protections for patients and working families. H.R. 2667 and H.R. 2668 together mark the 38th attempt to repeal, delay or defund health care reform. Instead of working together to ensure complete and successful implementation, House Republicans remain determined to re-litigate settled battles and undermine much needed reform to health care in America. "These votes come at a time when more Americans are seeing lower costs and better coverage. The New York Times recently reported that individuals buying health insurance in New York State will see their premiums fall by at least 50 percent next year as the Affordable Care Act continues to take effect. "Because of the Affordable Care Act, there are 8,400 young adults in the 43rd Congressional District of California who now have health insurance coverage through their parents' plan. More than 3,900 seniors in my district now have access to more affordable prescription drug coverage, which has saved them roughly $4.6 million since 2011. Also in my district, there are over 40,000 children with preexisting conditions who can no longer be denied coverage by health insurers. And beginning in 2014, over 165,000 of my constituents with pre-existing conditions who now lack health insurance will have access to quality, affordable care without fear of discrimination or higher charges. "Last month marked one year since the Supreme Court upheld the Affordable Care Act -- it is the law of the land. Once again, I urge my Republican colleagues to abandon their anti-health care crusade and redirect their efforts towards creating jobs and rebuilding a prosperous middle class." # # #
07.19.2013	House Democrats, led by Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters, today released a "set of critical core principles" they believe should be part of legislative efforts to address the future of housing finance reform. Since the beginning of the 113th Congress, Democrats on the Financial Services Committee have held a series of briefings, roundtables, and caucuses on housing finance reform. As a result of this work, Committee Democrats have developed principles to guide their consideration of any housing finance reform proposals. "Committee Democrats take housing finance reform very seriously," Ranking Member Waters said. "We are being very methodical in how we approach this immense undertaking to reform a $10 trillion market that makes the dream of homeownership a reality for millions of Americans. These principles are our first step in moving forward on this important issue." In the preamble to their principles, Democrats on the House Financial Services Committee write that, "after exploring the issues related to housing finance reform with interested advocates, academics, and industry representatives at a series of working roundtables this year…., (they) have agreed to a set of critical core principles for housing finance reform. We will oppose any legislation that is inconsistent with these principles." The principles call for the following: • Maintain the 30-year fixed rate mortgage. • Protect taxpayers. • Provide stability and liquidity. • Prevent disruptions to the U.S. housing market during a transition to a new finance system. • Require transparency and standardization. • Maintain access for all qualified borrowers that can sustain homeownership and serve homeowners of the future. • Ensure access to affordable rental housing. The principles are available here
07.18.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement in recognition of the 95th birthday of Nelson Mandela, the former President of South Africa. This morning, she joined her colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus and leaders from both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate at the Celebration of the Life, Legacy and Values of Nelson R. Mandela. Congresswoman Waters led the organizing of the event, which took place in Emancipation Hall of the United States Capitol Visitor's Center. "Today, I join with the people of South Africa and across the world in celebrating Nelson Mandela's 95th birthday. Transformational figures of the caliber of Nelson Mandela are exceedingly rare, and I am truly fortunate to know him and call him my friend. I am heartened by recent reports that indicate President Mandela's health is steadily improving, and I continue to pray for his recovery. "As I mentioned in my remarks today in Emancipation Hall, President Mandela taught the world invaluable lessons about determination, leadership, and unity. I regard President Mandela as a personal hero, and I am among the many that have been profoundly moved by both him and the people of South Africa. "President Mandela once said that ‘what counts in life is not the mere fact that we have lived. It is what difference we have made to the lives of others that will determine the significance of the life we lead.' Few embody this quote better than Nelson Mandela himself, whose lifelong struggle against racism and apartheid not only improved the lives of all South Africans, but also showed the world what is possible when one man refuses to sacrifice his ideals. "I offer my love, support and prayers to "Madiba" on this 95th birthday, and I extend my best wishes to him, his family and the people of South Africa." Click here to watch the video from today's Capitol Hill event. # # #
07.17.2013	At 10am on Thursday, July 18 Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will be joined by the Congressional Black Caucus and the leadership of both the House of Representatives and United States Senate in celebrating the life, legacy and values of Nelson Mandela. The date marks Mr. Mandela's 95th birthday, and is recognized internationally as Mandela Day. The ceremony will take place in Emancipation Hall of the United States Capitol Visitors Center. WHO: Congresswoman Maxine Waters House Speaker John Boehner Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi Congressional Black Caucus Chair Marcia Fudge Ambassador Ebrahim Rasool, South African Ambassador to the United States Members of Congress Notable Speakers and Invited Guests WHEN: Thursday, July 18 at 10:00 am WHERE: Emancipation Hall United States Capitol Visitors Center Washington, DCCOVERAGE DETAILS: All TV crews with equipment can access Emancipation Hall at 7:30 a.m. ET on July 18 for set up on the press riser. All TV crews must have equipment in place no later than 8:00 a.m. ET for a security sweep. All media must be credentialed through the appropriate media gallery. # # #
07.16.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to the Senate's vote to confirm Richard Cordray as the director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB): "It is with great pleasure that I congratulate Richard Cordray on his long overdue confirmation as Director of the CFPB. Under his leadership, the CFPB has been praised by industry representatives as both "effective" and "accessible." In addition to establishing a record of collaborative rulemakings, Director Cordray has a strong enforcement record, securing $425 million in relief for over six million consumers from service members to seniors. "I look forward to working with Director Cordray as he continues to lead this agency in its important work on behalf of American consumers. I also look ahead to the opportunity to hear from Director Cordray and his testimony on the CFPB's semi-annual report." ###
07.15.2013	Today, in response to Financial Services Chairman Jeb Hensarling's release of a proposal to reform the nation's housing finance system, Financial Services Committee Ranking Member Maxine Waters released the following statement: "I am strongly disappointed in the Chairman's legislation, which is little more than an attempt to reinvent America's housing finance system using the same kind of right-wing ideology that has eroded America's middle class for decades. This bill eliminates the 30-year fixed rate mortgage as we know it and consigns future generations of homeowners to the types of high interest, balloon-payment mortgages that caused the financial crisis. This is by no means a bipartisan bill. By presenting such an extreme proposal—with no input from Democrats—the Chairman stands in stark contrast with his colleagues in the Senate and has made it clear that bipartisan housing finance reform is not his priority." ###
07.15.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after George Zimmerman was found "not guilty" of all criminal charges in the killing of Trayvon Martin: "I am disappointed with the verdict in the State of Florida vs. George Zimmerman case. My heart goes out to Trayvon Martin's parents and the struggle that they have endured in an attempt to achieve justice for their son. Like many across the country, I do not believe that justice has been served. I join the NAACP and many others in urging the Department of Justice to review the case and determine whether criminal civil rights charges can be pursued." ###
07.02.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after the passing of former Congressman William "Bill" Gray (D-PA). He was 71 years old. "I am deeply saddened by the sudden passing of my friend and former colleague, Congressman Bill Gray. He was loved by everyone, and his legacy will continue to inspire all who knew him. I feel fortunate to have had the distinct honor of working with him over the years, as both a colleague and a friend. I join the people of Philadelphia and Americans across the nation in mourning the loss of an effective leader and passionate advocate of the public good. Bill Gray will certainly be missed. "First elected in 1978, Congressman Gray's 12 years in Congress were marked by extraordinary achievement. Not only was he the first African-American to serve as Chairman of the House Budget Committee, he was also the first African-American to serve as Majority Whip. In addition to his outstanding leadership, Congressman Gray's skill as a politician and orator raised awareness about the talent of the Congressional Black Caucus. "During his tenure, Congressman Gray also authored legislation that implemented economic sanctions against South Africa during apartheid. As our thoughts and prayers are with Nelson Mandela, we must remember and appreciate the fact that Congressman Gray spearheaded federal efforts to eradicate apartheid. "Bill Gray was a close friend both to me and my husband, long before I entered Congress. At Bill's invitation, I was honored to serve as a guest speaker at Bright Hope Baptist Church in Philadelphia, where Bill served as pastor until his retirement in 2007. My husband regularly played golf with Bill in Washington D.C. and other cities. "Bill was a strong and influential advocate for his constituents in Philadelphia and Americans around the country. I extend my sincerest condolences to his wife Andrea and their three sons William IV, Justin and Andrew during this difficult time." ###
06.27.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), a leading advocate in Congress for HIV/AIDS prevention, testing and treatment, released the following statement in recognition of National HIV Testing Day. "Today is the 18th Annual National HIV Testing Day. HIV/AIDS can affect anyone regardless of race, gender or sexual orientation but we have the power to reduce the spread of HIV and create an AIDS-free generation. It all begins with getting tested for HIV to find out your status. On this 18th anniversary of National HIV Testing Day, I urge all Americans to do their part, educate themselves about the disease and get tested for HIV. "According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there are more than 1.2 million people living in the United States with HIV/AIDS. Of these 1.2 million Americans, nearly 20 percent do not know that they carry the disease. Without awareness of their HIV status, these individuals risk spreading the disease to others and deny themselves the opportunity to begin life-saving treatment. "HIV/AIDS has had a particularly devastating impact on African-American communities in the United States. The CDC reports that African-Americans make up just 14 percent of the U.S. population, but account for 44 percent of all new HIV infections and make up nearly half of all people living with HIV. For these reasons, it is especially important for African-Americans to get tested for HIV. Only by getting tested can people discover their status, begin treatment and prevent the spread of the virus to others. "To aid in the ongoing fight against this disease, I will continue my efforts to enhance HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. I recently reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which will require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to combat HIV throughout the federal prison system. "I have also worked to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which I established as chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998. In April, 54 of my colleagues joined me in requesting $610 million for fiscal year 2014. "The National Association of People with AIDS (NAPWA) first declared National HIV Testing Day on this date in 1995. On this anniversary, let us acknowledge the continued importance of HIV testing, expand access to treatment, and reduce the stigma associated with the disease." ###
06.25.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after voting against legislation in the House of Representatives that would cut $20.5 billion in cuts to the SNAP program: "I applaud my colleagues who joined me in the House of Representatives to reject a bill that included $20.5 billion in cuts to the Supplementary Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). These cuts were a part of the proposed Republican farm bill, or the Federal Agriculture Reform and Risk Management Act (H.R. 1947). SNAP, formerly known as food stamps, is the preeminent anti-hunger program in the United States. "In 2012, nearly 47 million Americans relied on SNAP to put food on their tables. The $20.5 billion in cuts included in H.R. 1947 would have kicked two million Americans off the program, and over 200,000 children would have lost access to free school meals. At a time when more Americans than ever are living in poverty and millions more are subsisting on the margins, now is absolutely the wrong time to add Americans to the ranks of the food insecure. "Adding insult to injury, House Republicans also included the Southerland amendment in the bill, which would have allowed states to cut their SNAP caseloads by instituting work requirements and denying benefits to recipients who do not work at least 20 hours per week. These SNAP recipients include the disabled, parents who lack access to child care and those who are unable to find work because no jobs are available in their community. "I was proud to join over 80 House Democrats in cosponsoring the McGovern Amendment to the farm bill, which would have restored the $20.5 billion in SNAP funding. This amendment would have achieved the same amount of savings, not by making Americans go hungry, but by eliminating or reducing subsidies to highly-profitable agribusiness corporations. "With the failure of H.R. 1947, I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to abandon their assault on the critical SNAP program. I stand ready to vote in support of reasonable, bipartisan legislation that maintains responsible SNAP funding." ###
06.25.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today after the Supreme Court issued its decision in Shelby County v. Holder. In its decision, the Supreme Court effectively invalidated Section 4 of the landmark Voting Rights Act of 1965. "I am deeply troubled by today's Supreme Court decision striking critical protections within the Voting Rights Act. In a 5-4 ruling, the Supreme Court struck Section 4, a provision which outlines the formula federal officials have used to determine which states must clear new voting laws with the Department of Justice. This decision ignores the persistence of discrimination in voting and weakens a vital tool that has protected the right to vote for all Americans for nearly 50 years. "According to a recent Census Bureau report in 2012, African-Americans voted at a higher rate (66.2 percent) than non-Hispanic Whites (64.1 percent) for the first time since the Census Bureau started publishing voting rates by eligible citizenship population in 1996. These gains can be attributed to the many activists and public officials who mobilized their communities to push back against stringent voter suppression laws that were being adopted in Republican-led state legislatures across the country. These policies and measures included voting restrictions effecting college voters, the elderly, and ex-felons. "Today's decision must therefore be viewed within the context of the new voter laws that have already passed, and the more restrictive measures that will likely follow in the coming months. Voter suppression laws distort electoral outcomes which can disadvantage vulnerable populations. And as more African-Americans, Latinos, and young voters have become engaged in our democracy, I am concerned that any new voter suppression measures that are developed as a result of this ruling will impact their access to the ballot box. "In 2006, I was proud to join an overwhelming majority of both Democrats and Republicans who recognized that protecting the fundamental right to vote remains an urgent priority. Counting the votes in both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate, Congress voted by a margin of 488-33 to reauthorize the provisions of the Voting Rights Act that the court struck down today. The conservative majority of the Supreme Court decided that its five votes outweighed the voice and the will of the American people. "Today's decision requires that Congress act swiftly and with urgency to protect voters and address the persistent threat of voter discrimination. Despite partisan gridlock in Congress, we proved in 2006 that protecting the right to vote is a bipartisan goal. I am committed to working with my colleagues to ensure that the right to vote remains a reality for everyone. We must also continue to educate and raise awareness about the Voting Rights Act and impress upon people the importance of the law in ensuring that all Americans' voting rights are protected." ###
06.20.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter today to Christy L. Romero, Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP), calling for an investigation of Bank of America or any other mortgage servicer, who allegedly benefitted by misleading borrowers eligible for the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP). Ranking Member Waters' letter comes after an article in Bloomberg cited court documents in which former loan employees stated that, Bank of America, the second-biggest U.S. lender, "regularly drilled" employees, "to maximize fees for the bank by fostering and extending delay of the HAMP modification process by any means." The letter notes that according to significant anecdotal evidence as well as a number of academic studies that "foreclosure is often the most profitable end result for a servicer that does not own the loan they are servicing." "Bank of America has received $992 million in Incentive Payments related to HAMP, making them the second largest beneficiary of such payments." Ranking Member Waters writes. "While that figure pales in comparison to the other Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds that the bank has benefited from, I do think it represents a significant amount of assistance from taxpayer," the letter continues. Ranking Member Waters also sent a letter to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve (Fed) asking them to investigate how or whether these allegations against Bank of America interact with the Independent Foreclosure Review settlement reached between regulators and mortgage servicers in January 2013.
06.20.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, released the following statement honoring local small businesses as part of the 50th Annual National Small Business Week, which was declared by President Obama to be the week of June 16-22, 2013. National Small Business Week was first recognized fifty years ago by President John F. Kennedy in 1963. "Today, I celebrate American small businesses, especially those within California's 43rd District. I have long been a strong supporter of both small and start-up businesses, which are the main engines of job creation in our country. "With more than half of Americans either owning or working for a small business, it is critical that Congress work on behalf of small businesses to assist them in their effort to expand and grow. First and foremost, we must take action on the automatic cross-the-board spending cuts known as the sequester, which has been in effect since March 1. Under GOP sequestration, small businesses are estimated to lose access to more than $900 million in loans that could negatively impact both families and small businesses. "As an advocate for small business owners in the 43rd Congressional District, I was pleased to host a small business expo for women-owned businesses in March and an export-import forum held in conjunction with the Export-Import Bank in May. These events were designed to help the local businesses of my district gain a competitive edge when exporting their products overseas, improve their access to capital and make use of every resource available to them as they grow our economy. "During this 50th Annual Small Business Week, I thank small businesses both in California and across the nation, which form the backbone of our society -- opening new storefronts, hiring our neighbors, and manufacturing and selling goods to keep our communities thriving. In Congress, I will continue to work so that anyone with an enterprising idea and the willingness to work hard has the resources to bring that idea to life." ###
06.12.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement in recognition of the 50th anniversary of the assassination of civil rights activist Medgar Evers, who was 37 years old when he was killed by a sniper's bullet on June 12, 1963: "Today marks 50 years since the assassination of civil rights leader Medgar Evers. The horror of Mr. Evers' untimely death made national news, galvanized the nation and pushed the Civil Rights Movement forward. "After being named the NAACP's first Field Secretary for Mississippi in 1954, Mr. Evers spearheaded local efforts to enact social change. In the particularly oppressive racial climate of Mississippi, Mr. Evers organized boycotts of businesses that denied services to African-Americans, set up new chapters of the NAACP and led voter registration drives. His murder was a loss to his family, the state of Mississippi and to the entire nation. "I was pleased to join my dear friend, his widow Myrlie Evers-Williams, former President Bill Clinton, and many others last Wednesday at a wreath-laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery to commemorate his life and legacy. Although his life was cut short, it was clear to all that Mr. Evers did not die in vain. Today, Myrlie works to continue her husband's legacy through the Medgar & Myrlie Evers Institute. "I thank Medgar Evers for his courage, dedication and resolve in the face of virulent racism. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. once said that ‘before the victory of justice is a reality that some may even face physical death.' To no one is this quote more applicable than to Medgar Evers, whose death compelled this nation forward on its march towards justice and equality for all citizens." Pictured (from left to right): Medgar Evers' daughter Reena Denise Evers-Everette; Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43); Former President Bill Clinton; Evers' widow Myrlie Evers-Williams; and youngest son James Van Dyke Evers. ###
06.07.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement in recognition of the 50th Anniversary of the Equal Pay Act, which was signed into law by President John F. Kennedy on June 10, 1963. "As a longtime advocate for the advancement of women throughout society, it is my honor to acknowledge the 50th anniversary of the Equal Pay Act of 1963. This landmark law established the principle of equal pay for equal work for women in the workforce throughout the United States. In 1963, women made just 59 cents for every dollar earned by men, and this law was a critical first step to correcting this injustice. "Today, our fight for equal pay for equal work is not yet complete. Fifty years later, women still make just 77 cents for every dollar earned by men. For African-American and Latina women in our workforce, the pay gap is even larger. African-American women earn just 64 cents and Latinas just 55 cents for every dollar earned by white, non-Hispanic men. We have certainly made progress as a nation, but for too many in our society, not enough has changed over the last 50 years. "Achieving equal pay for equal work has been one of my top priorities since I began my career in public service, and there is still more to be done. I voted for the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, which restored a woman's right to fight pay discrimination. In the 110th and 111th Congresses, I co-sponsored the Paycheck Fairness Act, which is a much needed update to the Equal Pay Act that has never been strengthened or updated over the last 50 years. "According to the Pew Research Center, a record 40 percent of households are now headed by mothers who are the primary breadwinners for their families. Equal pay is more than just a women's issue – it is both a family issue and an economic issue. On this important anniversary, with a considerable pay gap still existing between men and women, let us all recommit to work together until we have achieved an America where women are truly paid equal pay for equal work." ###
06.06.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, released the following statement in support of the Transportation Security Administration's (TSA) decision to cancel its proposal to allow small knives on planes: "I stood firmly in opposition to TSA's proposal to allow small knives into the passenger cabins of planes, and I am pleased that TSA Administrator John Pistole has permanently abandoned this dangerous proposal. It seemed apparent from day one that this plan was wrong, and I am heartened that after consultation with travelers, airline employees and other stakeholders, TSA has arrived at the same conclusion. "Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is located in my Congressional District. LAX is the sixth busiest airport in the world, and the third busiest in the United States. In a post 9/11 world, it is crucial that we maintain the highest levels of safety and security. In March, I joined more than 140 of my House colleagues in a letter to Mr. Pistole, in which we asked him to stick to the current rules that prohibit knives and certain sporting equipment from being brought on planes. In April, I joined a coalition of flight attendants, pilots, law enforcement and passengers at an LAX rally to oppose the proposed plan. "TSA's decision to maintain the ban on knives on planes is the correct decision and a victory for anyone who works in or passes through LAX, and airports around the country." ###
06.06.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, made the following statement yesterday on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives. Ranking Member Waters called for bipartisan support to an amendment, offered by Rep. Bill Cassidy (R-LA) that would delay implementation of Section 207 of the Biggert-Waters Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2012, and provide relief for many homeowners across the nation facing significant increases in their flood insurance premiums. The amendment, which Ranking Member Waters co-sponsored, passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 281-146.As prepared for delivery: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I rise in support of this amendment offered by the gentleman from Louisiana, Mr. Cassidy. I am pleased to say that my colleagues, Mr. Cassidy and Mr. Richmond and I have worked to address this important issue in an ongoing, bipartisan way. The national flood insurance program was created in 1968 after record flooding led the private sector to abandon the flood insurance market and stop writing flood policies. The program is a key component of the federal government's efforts to minimize the damage and financial impact of floods. It is the only source of insurance against flood damage for most residents and provides much needed coverage for 5.5 million homeowners and their families. This is why I worked across the aisle with my colleague, Rep. Judy Biggert, to reauthorize this program. Before this reauthorization, the flood insurance program was plagued by repeated lapses in authority, placing many local communities at risk. During those lapses, FEMA was not able to write new policies, renew expiring policies, or increase coverage limits, causing great uncertainty for millions of homeowners who depend on the program's existence. The Biggert-Waters bill was instrumental in stabilizing the flood insurance program. It provided a five year reauthorization and made critical improvements to the program. The reforms in Biggert-Waters give communities more input into flood maps, and strengthen the financial position of the flood insurance program. In drafting this bill with then Chairwoman Judy Biggert, I sought to strike the right balance between protecting homeowners and strengthening the flood insurance program. This law was intended to reauthorize the flood insurance program in a sustainable way. The intent was not to impose punitive or unaffordable rate hikes that could make it difficult for some to remain in their homes. This is why I am extremely concerned about reports that homeowners in certain areas are facing high and unsustainable flood insurance rates. I have committed to work with FEMA and with my colleagues here in Congress to address this unintended consequence of this otherwise helpful legislation so I am supporting the gentleman's amendment today. This would prohibit FEMA from using funds made available in this Act to implement one provision from Biggert-Waters that has raised an unintended consequence and requires further study before being implemented. While the gentleman's amendment is a positive first step in addressing this issue, more needs to be done. Last month, my friend from Louisiana, Mr. Richmond, and I introduced H.R. 2199, the Flood Insurance Implementation Reform Act of 2013, a bill, on which Mr. Cassidy is an original cosponsor, that would take additional steps to provide meaningful relief and address the issue of affordability. The bill would delay implementation of changes to grandfathered rates, the subject of Mr. Cassidy's amendment, for three years instead of one. It would also delay implementation of rate changes that FEMA is currently rolling out. I look forward to continuing to work with my friends on both sides of the aisle to ensure that Biggert-Waters Act is implemented in a balanced way to ensure the flood insurance program's stability and affordability. FEMA's current implementation schedule could upset that delicate balance and unintentionally impact families and local communities. For these reasons I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to support H.R. 2199, and to also vote "aye" this amendment. ###
06.05.2013	Today, Ranking Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), joined U.S. Senator Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) and Lois Capps (D-Calif.), in sending a letter to eight executive agencies urging them to protect surviving spouses from foreclosure. This segment of the homeowner population – often women in their later years – faces unique circumstances that unfairly deprive them of opportunities to avoid losing their home. "Surviving spouses throughout the country have found themselves in this troubling situation, including in our states," Waters, Blumenthal, and Capps wrote. "These individuals, who also may be struggling with responsibility for medical bills, funeral costs, and other expenses while adjusting to a loss of income, are trapped without a means of preventing the loss of their homes." There are various unique circumstances that can cause surviving spouses to lose their homes to foreclosure. For example, surviving spouses whose names do not appear on the mortgage loan for their home must assume the loan in order to remain in the home. However, banks usually require payments to be up-to-date in order for a survivor to assume the loan. If the survivor cannot afford the required payments, banks will often refuse to negotiate loan modifications with them, treating them like strangers instead of partners to the deceased. In the letter, Waters, Blumenthal, and Capps provided examples from their respective states. "One Connecticut woman was part way through the foreclosure mediation process when her husband died, " Waters, Blumenthal, and Capps wrote. "Her husband was the only borrower on the loan, and after his death, the bank moved to terminate the mediation process because she was technically no longer eligible for mediation. She is now attempting to assume the loan, but there is no guarantee that she will be able to do so."Waters, Blumenthal, and Capps sent the letter to the following executive agencies: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Housing Finance Agency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Federal Reserve, U.S. Department of the Treasury, and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. All of these agencies deal with various aspects of the foreclosure process."We urge each of your agencies to use all powers at your disposal to ensure that financial institutions provide surviving spouses with full information about a loan, as well as help them to assume mortgages if they seek to, avoid foreclosure, and stay in their homes," Waters, Blumenthal, and Capps wrote. "In addition, as your agencies implement legal settlements with homeowners who were wrongfully foreclosed upon, we ask that you examine the eligibility of surviving spouses for the legal redress to which their late partners may have been entitled. We request that you provide us with a written response describing any efforts that your agency has already made to address this issue and specifying the actions that you will be taking to provide relief to surviving spouses." Text of the letter is below: Dear Director Cordray, Secretary Donovan, Acting Director DeMarco, Chairman Gruenberg, Comptroller Curry, Chairman Bernanke, Secretary Lew, and Secretary Shinseki: As you are aware, homeowners over the age of fifty are currently entering foreclosure at a faster rate than any other age group in the country. We are writing regarding one segment of this population: individuals facing foreclosure after the death of a spouse. These surviving spouses, often women in their later years, can face unique circumstances that unfairly deprive them of opportunities to avoid foreclosure. For example, surviving spouses whose names do not appear on their home's mortgage loan must assume the loan in order to remain in the home. However, banks usually require payments to be up-to-date in order for a survivor to assume the loan. If the survivor cannot afford the required payments, banks will often refuse to negotiate loan modifications with them, treating them like strangers instead of partners to the deceased. As a result, survivors unable to make payments are left without options that would enable them to avoid foreclosure. These individuals, who also may be struggling with responsibility for medical bills, funeral costs, and other expenses while adjusting to a loss of income, are trapped without a means of preventing the loss of their homes. Surviving spouses throughout the country have found themselves in this troubling situation, including in our states. One Connecticut woman was part way through the foreclosure mediation process when her husband died. Her husband was the only borrower on the loan, and after his death, the bank moved to terminate the mediation process because she was technically no longer eligible for mediation. She is now attempting to assume the loan, but there is no guarantee that she will be able to do so. Another woman in California, in the wake of her husband's death, missed a single payment on a mortgage that had only been in his name. After complying with the loan servicer's six-month payment plan, the regular monthly payment increased by $1,500.00 a month and the woman attempted to initiate a loan modification. So far the widow has not been able to obtain a loan modification or remove her deceased husband's name from the mortgage. We are pleased that the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau specified in its mortgage servicing rules that servicers should facilitate communication with the successor of a deceased borrower. However, this is only a first step. We urge each of your agencies to use all powers at your disposal to ensure that financial institutions provide surviving spouses with full information about a loan, as well as help them to assume mortgages if they seek to, avoid foreclosure, and stay in their homes. In addition, as your agencies implement legal settlements with homeowners who were wrongfully foreclosed upon, we ask that you examine the eligibility of surviving spouses for the legal redress to which their late partners may have been entitled. We request that you provide us with a written response describing any efforts that your agency has already made to address this issue and specifying the actions that you will be taking to provide relief to surviving spouses. We would be interested to learn if the current legal framework is sufficient, or if legislative changes would be necessary or helpful in assisting these individuals. We look forward to your prompt response. Sincerely, Richard Blumenthal United States Senate Maxine Waters Member of Congress Lois Capps Member of Congress
05.31.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, sent a letter today to the Honorable Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations, expressing concerns about the lack of progress in responding effectively to the Haitian cholera epidemic. The letter urges the Secretary General to use his office and his influence to ensure that the United Nations takes responsibility for the introduction of cholera into Haiti and commits an appropriate level of resources to support cholera response efforts. The letter was signed by 19 Members of Congress. The text of the letter follows: As congressional friends of the people of Haiti, we are deeply concerned about the lack of progress by the United Nations, given its likely role in the introduction of cholera into Haiti, in responding effectively to the Haitian cholera epidemic. The cholera epidemic in Haiti is one of the largest cholera epidemics in modern history, and it has already taken a devastating toll on the people of Haiti. The Haitian government has estimated that there have been 656,321 cases of cholera and 8,090 deaths from cholera since the epidemic began in October of 2010. The lack of access to clean water and sanitation infrastructure continue to exacerbate the impact of the disease. There is considerable evidence that the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH), the United Nations' peacekeeping mission in Haiti, is responsible for introducing cholera into Haiti. The cholera outbreak began shortly after the arrival of a group of MINUSTAH peacekeepers from Nepal, which was already experiencing a cholera outbreak. The first cases of cholera in Haiti appeared near the Artibonite River, just downstream of the Nepalese peacekeepers' camp, and the strain of cholera that is ravaging Haiti is an exact match to the strain of cholera that was active in Nepal. Prior to this outbreak, there had been no known cases of cholera in Haiti in at least a century. We are concerned by the United Nations' rejection of the claims made by 5,000 Haitian cholera victims and families of victims, who sued the United Nations demanding compensation, a public apology, and a nationwide response to the cholera epidemic. Given the evidence, the victims' demands for compensation and a public apology are not unreasonable, and a nationwide response to the epidemic is long overdue. We appreciate the United Nations' December 2012 endorsement of the Hispaniola Initiative, which was launched in January of 2012 by the Presidents of Haiti and the Dominican Republic to improve clean water access, develop sanitation infrastructure and address the cholera epidemic. As you know, the Hispaniola Initiative requires $2.2 billion in funds for Haiti and another $70 million in funds for the Dominican Republic over the next 10 years. However, we are dismayed that the United Nations has committed only $23.5 million for this initiative. That is a mere one percent of the total funding required to fund the initiative in Haiti, alone. It is also less than four percent of the $648 million that the United Nations is spending on MINUSTAH this year. Given the pivotal role that MINUSTAH is believed to have played in the introduction of cholera into Haiti, it is imperative that the United Nations take the lead in responding to the crisis and funding the Hispaniola Initiative. We therefore urge you to use your office and your influence to ensure that the United Nations takes responsibility for the introduction of cholera into Haiti, commits an appropriate level of resources to support the Hispaniola Initiative, and takes immediate and appropriate action to assist the Haitian government with the implementation of this initiative. We appreciate your attention to our concerns, and we look forward to your response. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Barbara Lee Yvette D. Clarke Frederica S. Wilson Jan Schakowsky John Conyers, Jr. Alcee L. Hastings Charles B. Rangel Corrine Brown Donald M. Payne, Jr. Bobby L. Rush Wm. Lacy Clay Raúl M. Grijalva Debbie Wasserman Schultz John Lewis Gregory W. Meeks Donna F. Edwards Keith Ellison Carolyn B. Maloney
05.30.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement regarding the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority's vote to build Leimert Park and Hindry rail stations on the Crenshaw/LAX line: "I am pleased that the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (Metro) voted last week to include light rail stations on the Crenshaw/LAX Corridor at Leimert Park and Florence & Hindry. "Over the years, I have fought for the inclusion of light rail stations in Leimert Park and at Florence & Hindry on the Crenshaw/LAX line. I visited Metro and met with Metro leadership to discuss the importance of these stations, and I urged Metro to seek federal funding for their construction. On Capitol Hill, I introduced legislation to increase federal funding for the TIGER program, which provides grants for transportation infrastructure projects like the Crenshaw/LAX Corridor. I also circulated a letter to the House Appropriations Committee, signed by 113 of my colleagues, requesting $500 million for this program in 2014, and urged the Department of Transportation to provide TIGER grants to Metro to finance these stations. "Most recently, I sent a letter to the Los Angeles City Council in support of a motion to provide $40 million to build the Leimert Park stations and $15 million to build the Hindry station. After my letter was distributed to the Council members, the Council passed this motion, and Metro subsequently agreed to provide an additional $80 million to fully fund both stations. "Leimert Park is one of the rich cultural destinations of Southern California. Popular among both residents and tourists, it is home to art galleries, bookstores, restaurants, live music, theater, ethnic clothing stores, and African artifacts. A station in Leimert Park will ease traffic congestion, stimulate the local economy, and facilitate access to this vibrant community. "A Hindry station on the Crenshaw/LAX Corridor is especially important to the Westchester community. Without this station, Westchester residents would not have direct access to light rail. This station will also be vital for the 600 military veterans who are residents of the U.S. Vets facility in Inglewood. Most of these veterans rely on public transportation, and it will be difficult for them to walk all the way to Century Boulevard to board a train. "I look forward to continuing my work with Metro to ensure that this corridor receives strong federal support and serves all of the communities of the area."
05.29.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) attended the 5th Annual Pink Pump Affair at the Montage Beverly Hills Hotel on Sunday, May 19. Organized by the Special Needs Network (SNN), a leading autism advocacy organization based in Los Angeles, the Pink Pump Affair honored five "Women of Distinction" who have made outstanding contributions to increasing autism awareness and supporting children and families impacted by the disorder. Guests were encouraged to wear pink high-heeled shoes to demonstrate how "pumped" they are about enhancing autism awareness. Congresswoman Waters presented the "Women of Distinction" honorees with certificates of special recognition. Honorees included actress Tisha Campbell-Martin, business leaders Candance Bond McKeever and Delilah Lanoix-Harris, and autism expert Anshu Batra, M.D. Congresswoman Waters also presented the Lifetime Achievement Award, an honor she received at the inaugural Pink Pump Affair, to Former Labor Secretary Hilda Solis. "It was a tremendous honor to attend this event," said Congresswoman Waters. "I commend Areva Martin, the president of SSN for her extraordinary commitment to helping children with autism and special needs. Each of the honorees has given so much of their time and effort to advancing autism awareness, and it is a true testament to their character." Congresswoman Waters continued: "According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 20 children out of every 1,000 were diagnosed with autism in 2012. The CDC has also found that the number of people diagnosed with autism has increased dramatically since the 1980s. In light of the growing prevalence of autism among children in the United States, the efforts of these honorees couldn't be more timely or necessary." ### Attached photograph (left to right): Anshu Batra, M.D., Tisha Campbell-Martin, Areva Martin, Esq., Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Pat Harvey, Candance Bond McKeever, Delilah Lanoix-Harris.
05.28.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement today in honor of Memorial Day: "On Memorial Day, we come together as Americans to celebrate and remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our country, in the name of liberty and equality. The gratitude and appreciation we have for their service is beyond measure. Without the courageous efforts of the men and women of our Armed Forces, our country would not be the democracy it is today. "Today, I am pleased to join the residents of Lawndale, Hawthorne and Inglewood as we honor and remember the patriotic sacrifices of our military men and women. We especially salute the servicemen and servicewomen of the 43rd Congressional District and the state of California. "Although the War in Iraq has come to a close, there are thousands of troops still on active duty in Afghanistan. As these soldiers return home, we must keep our commitments to our country's two million troops and reservists, their families, and the 22 million veterans among us. "Right now in Congress, we must seize the opportunity to overcome a growing obstacle to the health and well-being of these soldiers by ensuring that they have timely access to the benefits that they have earned. At the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), there are nearly 900,000 pending claims, of which over 600,000 are backlogged. The backlog of disability claims at the VA is a stain on the conscience of our country. I am pleased to see that the VA has recently taken action to expedite claims decisions for our veterans. In addition, I support a package of legislation that was introduced in the House last week that will reduce the backlog, promote innovation and speed up the claims process. "On the battlefield, the military pledges to leave no soldier behind. As a nation, let it be our pledge that when our troops return home, we leave no veteran behind. On Memorial Day and every day, let us honor their service with actions that fulfill our commitment to our troops, their families, and our veterans – actions that are worthy of our grateful nation." ###
05.24.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, lit up a committee hearing Wednesday by calling for aggressive prosecution of financial institutions involved in the laundering of illegal drug money. The hearing, held by the Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee of the House Committee on Financial Services, focused on the question of whether large financial institutions are immune from federal prosecution. Mythili Raman, Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Criminal Division of the U.S. Department of Justice, appeared as the sole witness. Congresswoman Waters has long been critical of the disparity between the aggressive prosecution of individuals caught with illegal drugs and the lack of prosecution of large financial institutions and their officers which facilitate the drug trade.Link to video of Ranking Member Waters' statement and questions Statement of the Honorable Maxine Waters Hearing of the Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations House Financial Services Committee "Who is Too Big to Fail: Are Large Financial Institutions Immune from Federal Prosecution"? As delivered Thank you very much; I'll like to continue some discussion about drugs. This testimony was started by my colleague here, Mr. Heck, but I would like to take a little different spin on it. This year marks the 40th anniversary of the war on drugs a critical time to shine a spotlight on 40 years of failed policy. Since the declaration of the war on drugs 40 years ago America has spent at least $1 trillion on the drug war. It has cost US taxpayers at least 51 billion in 2009 at the state and federal level. That's $169 per every man, woman and child in America – and that's not counting opportunity cost or cost at the local level. Millions of people have been incarcerated for low-level drug law violations, resulting in drastic racial disparities in the prison system, yet drug overdose addiction and misuse are more prevalent than ever. The number of people behind bars for drug law violations rose for from 50 thousand in 1980, to more than a half million today, an 11 hundred percent increase. Drug arrests have more than tripled in the last 25 years totaling more than 1.63 million arrests in 2010, more than four out of these five arrests were from mere possession and 46 percent of these arrests were from marijuana possession alone. Arrests and incarcerations for drugs even for the first time low-level violations can result in debilitating collateral consequences for an individual and their families. I have worked on something called mandatory minimum sentencing for the last 20 years. I hold workshops every year at the CBC legislative weekend conference. And we worked on trying to bring about some justice in the area of mandatory minimum sentencing, where we had all these young people who had been incarcerated. Five grams of crack cocaine triggered five-year mandatory minimum sentence, 50 grams of crack cocaine triggered a 10-year sentence. I can go on and on about this. But you can understand why when I see that we have some of the biggest banks in the world who get a slap on the wrist for laundering drug money from the drug cartels and they are not going to jail and this keeps happening year after year after year. I don't believe… it is hard to believe that we don't understand how they launder this money, but we know this – if there was no profit, if they were not able to launder this money, perhaps we wouldn't have drugs on the street, with all these young people getting arrested and basically some of them not criminals, just stupid, getting involved with small amounts of crack cocaine and yet we have some of the richest most powerful banks in the world who are laundering drug money from the drug cartels. Why don't they go to jail? Mythili Raman, U.S. Department of Justice: I think I can respond to your… Waters: I can't hear you. Mythili Raman: I can respond to your question in a couple of ways. First and foremost, the bank entity of course cannot go to jail. The bank entity, when we are talking about a corporate entity the punishment that we get, are able to secure, comes in the form of monetary penalties a period under which they must engage in remedial action or cooperate with the United States and its investigations so our cases we are focused on ensuring that we understand how much of these crime proceeds that you are referring to have flowed through a bank and when we determined that we seek to forfeit that money or we seek to find… Waters: Excuse me, and I don't want to interrupt you, take too much time, but we know what you do. It's what you do that we don't like. What you do is they get fined, it's the cost of doing business, these fines, and I know maybe you can't incarcerate a corporate entity, but are you telling me that the CEOs and those who are responsible for the operations of the banks, the boards, the presidents nobody can have criminal violations because of the laundering of money in the bank. Mythili Raman: We in the criminal division in fact established a money laundering and bank integrity unit that is focused on prosecuting precisely these kinds of cases including professional money launderers and the entities in which they work. Waters: But you have not sent anybody to jail. Mythili Raman: We have prosecuted innumerable money laundering cases involving persons that assist drug and other criminal organizations in laundering their money. So we are committed in doing that when we have resolved any such cases with bank entities those resolutions have not in the least precluded the possibility of individual… Waters: Well, let me just say this because I guess we can go on with this conversation and I appreciate the time here, but you have not prosecuted anybody, you have not sent anybody to jail, as a matter of fact the most shameful case that I won't mention were hundreds of millions of dollars were laundered though one of the biggest banks in the world and they got away with a hefty fine and this goes on and on and on. It's unacceptable. It's not your fault, it's not a personal attack on you, but it's about the system. It's about the Justice Department. Something needs to be done. These kids they go to jail and do five years for 5 grams of crack cocaine, you tell me that they are more guilty then the presidents of banks who have the responsibility of running that bank don't know that drug money is going through the bank? I don't think so. Thank you Mr. Chairman I yield the balance of my time.
05.22.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after House Republicans pushed a bill to increase the cost of a college education: "Today, the U.S. House of Representatives was divided on a bill introduced by Republicans that would increase the cost of a college education. H.R. 1911, the Smarter Solutions for Students Act, is truly mislabeled and should instead be called the Making College More Expensive Act. A total of 190 Democrats voted against H.R. 1911, while 217 Republicans voted in support of it. The interest rate on federally subsidized Stafford loans is set to double from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1st. Instead of taking action to prevent this increase, the Republicans voted to make the situation worse. "Under H.R. 1911, current college freshman could see their student loan interest rates more than double the current rate by graduation in 2017. According to the Congressional Budget Office, this bill would charge millions of students and families $3.7 billion over the next decade in additional interest payments relative to current law. "In their pursuit to obtain a higher education, our students and families deserve a deal better than this. Earlier this month, in an effort to fight back and assist students and families, I co-sponsored the Bank on Students Loan Fairness Act (H.R. 1979). This bill is the House companion to the Bank on Students Loan Fairness Act (S. 897) in the Senate, and would allow students to take advantage of the same low interest rate of 0.75 percent offered to banks through the Federal Reserve's discount window. "According to the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), total student loan debt already exceeds $1.1 trillion dollars. I have long championed the importance of developing the next generation of entrepreneurs and innovators to lead our country boldly in the 21st Century. Yet, the CFPB report found that student loan debt is posing a barrier to young entrepreneurs. "Among graduates, existing student loan obligations have delayed homeownership, put off marriage and delayed starting a family. H.R. 1911 is a bait and switch scheme that does nothing to remedy this issue. This bill only makes it more expensive to attain a higher education by forcing students and families to accept loans with skyrocketing interest rates that increase annually. "Instead of taking this problem and making it worse, we need to freeze student loan interest rates at the current 3.4 percent rate and work together on a longer-term solution that makes college more affordable. In order for us to maintain our competitive edge as a nation, we need to support every single American who desires to pursue a higher education. Congress needs to pass meaningful legislation that actually solves this problem and not perpetuate it." ###
05.16.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement after the House voted to repeal the landmark Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("Obamacare") for the 37th time. The bill, the Patients' Rights Repeal Act, passed by a vote of 229-195: "Today, the House of Representatives voted for the 37th time to repeal or defund the Affordable Care Act. Although full implementation has yet to take place, millions of Americans are already seeing lower health care costs, better coverage and more control over their health care because of this law. Yet again, I voted against House Republican Leadership efforts to undo these critical improvements to health care in America. "This repeal vote was an absurd waste of time. Like the 36 previous attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the Senate will decline to take up the measure. At a time when the American people are awaiting action on bills that create jobs and expand the economy, this pointless vote is not only a waste of time, but also a waste of hard-earned taxpayer money. So far, this anti-health care crusade has cost American taxpayers a total of 52.4 million. "Because of the Affordable Care Act, seniors in California have access to more affordable prescription drug coverage, children in California can stay on their family health plan until the age of 26, and women no longer have to worry about being dropped by their insurance companies once they become sick or pregnant. Families in California and across the country also no longer face lifetime limits on health care, and beginning in 2014 will no longer face discrimination because of a pre-existing condition. "Despite the GOP's best efforts to put insurance corporations back in charge of health care, I will continue to fight against their crusade and work to ensure complete and successful implementation of this landmark law. I urge my colleagues on the other side of the aisle to end their grandstanding, get their priorities straight, and move on to more important issues facing our country." ###
05.14.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today took steps to comprehensively address the impact that medical debt has on consumers by introducing legislation which would require consumer reporting agencies to remove any information related to fully paid or settled medical debt from a consumer's credit report within 45 days. At the same time she joined two other senior Democratic members in requesting the Government Accounting Office (GAO) review whether medical financing options available to consumers are sufficiently fair and transparent. Representatives Watt, Meeks, Clay, Lynch, Ellison, Himes, Peters, Foster, and Markey are original cosponsors of the legislation. The legislation is the House companion to S.160, which was introduced by Senator Jeff Merkley. The Medical Debt Responsibility Act of 2013 (H.R. 1767) would help improve consumers' access to credit by removing fully settled or paid medical debt information from a credit report within 45 days. Under current law this type of information is generally retained on a credit report for seven years. The legislation recognizes that medical debt is unique and, therefore, does not impose an arbitrary dollar cap on the amount of medical debt that can be removed from a credit report. According to a study by the Commonwealth Fund, medical bill problems or accrued medical debt affects roughly 73 million working-age adults in this country. "Illness or injury may strike any of us at any time, and often results in expensive treatment leaving millions of Americans to wrestle with medical debt," said Waters in introducing the legislation. "People can choose when to shop and buy certain commercial goods but they cannot plan when they are going to be sick and need to seek medical care. If a consumer fully pays or settles a medical debt, the consumer should not continue to be arbitrarily penalized. The solution to this problem is simple and fair; information about a medical debt should be removed from a credit report once it is fully settled or paid. This information should not linger on a consumer's credit report, like an albatross around their neck, making it more difficult for them to obtain credit for years to come." The Waters' bill is substantially similar to legislation -- The Medical Debt Relief Act of 2010 (H.R. 3421) -- which was introduced by former Representative Mary Jo Kilroy during the 111th Congress. H.R. 3421 passed the House of Representatives under suspension by a recorded vote of 336 to 82 on September 20, 2010. To fully address the consequences of medical debt, Ranking Member Waters and Ranking Member Elijah E. Cummings of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, today joined a letter sent by Representative Edward Markey to the GAO requesting a thorough review of the marketplace for third-party consumer financial products and services – such as medical credit cards – that are targeted to consumers seeking to pay for medical expenses. GAO's review will help shed light on whether additional action needs to be taken to protect the most vulnerable consumers, including those who are in pain, seriously ill, underinsured, uninsured, or elderly. "We are concerned that rather than alleviating the pressure of medical bills, some of the products available in the current market may drive consumers further into debt," states the joint letter. Representatives Waters, Markey and Cummings also ask GAO to consider the legal and regulatory framework currently governing third-party consumer financial products and services targeted at covering medical costs, and what changes to this framework may be beneficial in ensuring that the terms and conditions for these types of credit products are fair, transparent and understood by vulnerable consumers looking to cover medical expenses. ###
05.10.2013	Two senior Democratic lawmakers from the House – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), Ranking Member on the Financial Services Committee and Congressman George Miller (D-Calif.), the senior Democrat on the Education and the Workforce Committee– released the following joint statement today after the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) published a report highlighting ways in which student loan debt can have a domino effect on other financial decisions for consumers. For example, the report found that student loan debt can limit graduates' ability to access small business credit and start a business, affect their ability to qualify for a mortgage and purchase their first home, and may limit the choices they make about their careers and where they choose to live. "We commend the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau for their continued research and analysis into the consequences of student loan debt in the economy. This report increases the mounting evidence that student loan debt is a drag on economic growth and potentially a shackle for many borrowers who struggle with unmanageable monthly payments. We are committed to closely examining the report's findings and look forward to working with the CFPB, stakeholders and colleagues in Congress to ensure that students who are saddled by unmanageable private education loans have a clear path to financial stability. "In the meantime, the CFPB's research demonstrates the urgent need for Congress to address the looming interest rate hike on need-based student loans. In this economy, now is not the time to ask students with the greatest need to be burdened by higher loan costs. As Congress considers various solutions in the days ahead, we must not lose sight of the fact that our actions on the interest rate will directly impact the financial security of these borrowers; their ability to contribute to their local economies; and our nation's economic future as a whole."
05.10.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters delivered the following remarks during the National Dental Association's 14th Annual "NDA Day on Capitol Hill" on Thursday, May 9, 2013: "This year, I am especially proud to join you for the Centennial Anniversary of the National Dental Association. During the past 100 years, you have been in the forefront of the movement for health care reform. Let me remind you, the Affordable Care Act was signed into law three years ago. It's not perfect, but it's already making a difference in the lives of American families. Millions of uninsured Americans will gain access to affordable coverage when the new health exchanges open in January. Insurance plans in these new marketplaces will be required to cover children's dental care. "The House Republicans have already voted 34 times to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and they are bringing another repeal bill to the floor next week. What they should be doing is stopping sequestration. "Medicaid and Medicare are exempt from sequestration. Now, I know many of you serve patients who are on Medicaid. I am deeply grateful to you for your service to these patients, because I know there are many dentists who are not willing to serve them. And I will do everything I can to protect Medicaid, and the families who depend on it. "Nevertheless, sequestration is having a devastating impact on health programs across this country. Cuts to Community Health Centers could leave 1 million low-income and uninsured patients without basic medical and dental services. "Instead of ending sequestration, House Republicans are trying to make even deeper cuts in essential government services. The Ryan plan slashes $810 billion from Medicaid over the next 10 years, jeopardizing care for millions of seniors in nursing homes and undermining health care for low-income children, families, and persons with disabilities. Slashing Medicaid could leave millions of children without access to basic medical and dental services. And it could lead to more needless tragedies like the heartbreaking case of Deamonte Driver, the 12-year-old boy who died from complications of tooth decay because his mother could not afford to take him to a dentist. "We have to protect Medicaid and other essential medical and dental programs and end sequestration, and we have to end it now! And this is why it is so important for the National Dental Association to be back on Capitol Hill! Thank you for celebrating your 100th anniversary by returning to Capitol Hill and speaking truth to power."
05.07.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) hosted an exporter forum for small businesses on Friday, May 3 in Hawthorne, Calif. More than 75 representatives from local companies attended the event, which focused on how American companies can gain a competitive edge when exporting their products overseas. The forum was held in collaboration with Fred P. Hochberg, chairman and president of the Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im). Ex-Im Bank is an independent federal agency that helps create and maintain U.S. jobs by filling gaps in private export financing at no cost to American taxpayers. Local small businesses also received one-on-one trade counseling from Ex-Im Bank experts.. "I was pleased to see so many people from the business community gather to hear presentations on how to improve their exports," said Congresswoman Waters. "Exports create and sustain U.S. jobs, and businesses in the 43rd Congressional District have much to gain from such opportunities. I am confident that the forum provided them the necessary resources to sell their great exports around the world." "Exports help create jobs and boost our nation's economy," said Ex-Im Bank Chairman and President Fred P. Hochberg. "Ex-Im Bank will continue to host Global Access forums throughout the country so we can provide our local business leaders with the tools they need to expand globally." Chairman Hochberg gave an overview of Ex-Im Bank's Global Access for Small-Business initiative, aimed at increasing the number of small businesses across the United States that export goods and services produced by U.S. workers. This is an integral part of the President Obama's National Export Initiative. Global Access is supported by a wide variety of business, financial and government partners, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), and the Bank's 60-plus city/state partners located throughout the U.S. Congresswoman Waters is pictured with speakers from the first panel, "Other Companies are Exporting, Why Aren't You?" From left to right: Nancy Mercolina, President and Owner of Ceilings Plus; Leland Lai, President of Aquafauna Bio-Marine, Inc.; Steve Wilburn, CEO of FirmGreen, Inc.; and Veronica Hendrix, Owner of Bromont Avenue Foods. ###
05.07.2013	On Wednesday, May 1, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) recognized 24 high school students of the 43rd Congressional District who participated in the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. Students, teachers and parents were joined by Congresswoman Waters at the Nakaoka Community Center in Gardena, Calif. for a reception to honor the students. Since its inception in 1982, over 750,000 high school students have participated in the nation-wide Congressional Art Competition. "The Congressional Art Competition is a wonderful way to recognize the creative talents of young artists from our community, and I commend both the students and their teachers for their hard work," said Congresswoman Waters. "I look forward to displaying their remarkable talent for one year in my offices and the U.S. Capitol." This year's participants included students representing eight high schools across the 43rd Congressional District. The first place prize winner is Christopher Lizama of Leuzinger High School (Lawndale), where he is taught by Mr. Kyle Jennings. Christopher will have his artwork displayed in the Nation's Capitol for one year. He will also receive two complimentary, round-trip plane tickets to Washington D.C. for the official unveiling ceremony at the U.S. Capitol on June 26. The second place award was presented to Adrian Sanchez of St. Bernard Catholic High School (Westchester), where he is taught by Mr. Ron Baum. Adrian's piece will be showcased in the Congresswoman's Washington D.C. office during the coming year. The third place winner is Soohyun Park, who studies at Torrance's North High School and is taught by Mr. Justin Yeom and Ms. Alissa Park. The fourth place prize was awarded to Adilah Trimble, of Inglewood High School, where she is instructed by Mr. Clifford Johnson. Soohyun and Adilah's artwork will be on display for the next year in Congresswoman Waters' Los Angeles office. Below, pictured from left to right are: 2nd Place winner, Adrian Sanchez, a senior at St. Bernard Catholic High School in Westchester; 3rd Place winner, Soohyun Park, a sophomore at Torrance North High School; Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43); 4th Place winner, Adilah Trimble, a senior at Inglewood High School; and 1st Place winner, Christopher Lizama, a senior at Leuzinger High School in Lawndale. ###
05.01.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters released the following statement today in response to news that President Barack Obama will nominate Congressman Melvin L. Watt to be Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency: "It is with high regard and great respect that I endorse the nomination of Representative Mel Watt to head the Federal Housing Finance Agency. We are at a crossroads in our economic recovery, and the FHFA must play a leading role in laying the groundwork for the long-term stability of the housing market. Given that this is one of the most important challenges that we face as a nation, we need a man as thoughtful, well-informed, principled and fair as Representative Watt. "I have worked very closely with Representative Watt for almost 20 years. We have served together on the House Financial Services Committee since 1994, where Mel is highly respected by colleagues on both sides of the aisle as a consummate legislator with the vision to see what Congress can do to help make people's lives better and the determination to move a good bill through the legislative process. Representative Watt is always respectful of opposing viewpoints and can often find common ground when others can find none. He is accepting, open-minded and collaborative – and he gets things done. "For example, in 2004, long before most people realized that predatory lending was a problem, Representative Watt, and his colleague Representative Brad Miller, introduced legislation to restrict the unfair lending practices which led so many people to take out mortgages they could not afford. The financial crisis proved that Representative Watt was right about this issue. So he worked to make sure that his legislation, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act, was included in the landmark Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. Representative Watt then served as a valuable member of the Dodd-Frank Conference Committee, where he worked to reconcile differences between House and Senate versions of the bill. "Including the aforementioned Dodd-Frank Act, Representative Watt has had a hand in nearly every major piece of legislation the Financial Services Committee has sent to a President for signature in recent years, including the Financial Services Modernization Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act. Mel played a leading role as an original co-sponsor of the Federal Housing Finance Reform Act of 2007, which was ultimately rolled into the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, providing expanded oversight authority for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. His legislative work demonstrates unwavering commitment to protecting consumers, expanding affordable rental housing, and providing prudent oversight of financial institutions. "Representative Watt's strength as a legislator also extends to his work on the Judiciary Committee, where I also served with him. He was an influential member of the bipartisan coalition which steered the landmark Voting Rights Act to reauthorization. And he led the first effort in 20 years to reform the nation's patent laws. "I thank President Obama for having the foresight to nominate Representative Watt to head the FHFA. It is a job that requires a leader who deeply understands the complex issues surrounding housing and finance, which Representative Watt has proven throughout his career. But the job also requires someone of Representative Watt's temperament – thoughtful, fair-minded, balanced, collaborative – and wise. We have many challenges before us, and we need a man like Representative Watt. I strong endorse him to head the FHFA." ###
04.26.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today on the House passage of the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 to end employee furloughs by the Federal Aviation Agency: "I have been extremely concerned about flight delays and the safety of travelers at our nation's airports due to employee furloughs at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The furloughs were a result of sequestration, the automatic across-the-board spending cuts that took effect on March 1st. I introduced a bill today that would prevent the furloughs of air traffic controllers that have caused widespread flight delays this week. My bill, the Safe and Reliable Air Travel Act of 2013 (H.R. 1766) would exempt the operation of our nation's air traffic control system from sequestration. "Meanwhile, the Senate unanimously passed emergency legislation yesterday, the Reducing Flight Delays Act of 2013 that would also end the flight delays at airports across the country. The House immediately voted on this bill today, which I supported, and it passed by a vote of 361 to 41. While my legislation would end furloughs of an estimated 13,000 air-traffic controllers, the measure passed by the House today is emergency legislation that will rapidly address FAA's funding shortage. "The impact of sequestration is real. It was felt this week by the thousands of travelers who utilize our airways and has already taken a toll on families, businesses, and communities across the country. Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is located in my Congressional District. LAX is the sixth busiest airport in the world and the third busiest airport in the United States. These furloughs have been problematic for LAX and other airports across the country. " While this bill was good news, this is no substitute for action to replace the sequester that would not only protect our nation's air traffic control system, but protect many other agencies and programs that are critical to the American people. I am actively working with my colleagues in Congress to find a long term solution to sequestration. It is time to do the right thing for the American people and lift the sequester." ###
04.24.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) delivered the following remarks today on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of a resolution awarding the Congressional Gold Medal to the four little girls who lost their lives in the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing of 1963. Below are the Congresswoman remarks as prepared for delivery: "I rise today in support of H.R. 360. The bill posthumously honors the lives of Addie Mae Collins, Denise McNair, Carole Robertson, and Cynthia Wesley, who were tragically lost 50 years ago in the bombing of the Sixteenth Street Baptist Church in Birmingham, Alabama. The horror of this senseless act of violence stunned the nation and served as a catalyst for the Civil Rights movement. "I would like to thank my colleagues on the Financial Services Committee, especially Congresswoman Terri Sewell and Chairman Emeritus Spencer Bachus, for their work to ensure that these girls receive our highest civilian honor as we commemorate the 50th anniversary of their deaths. "The Sixteenth Street Church was not an accidental bombing target for the perpetrators. Rather, members of the Ku Klux Klan deliberately targeted the church, designing their attack to strike fear into the hearts of those seeking equal rights. The church was a known sanctuary for civil rights leaders, including Dr. Martin Luther King, the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and the Congress on Racial Equality which had become involved in a campaign to register African-Americans vote in Alabama. "On that fateful morning of September 13, 1963, roughly one month after the March on Washington, the girls went to Sunday school to hear a sermon entitled "The Love that Forgives" when the bomb exploded, killing them, and injuring many others. The bombers had hidden under a set of cinder block steps on the side of the church, tunneled under the basement, and placed a bundle of dynamite under what turned out to be the girl's rest room. "The cruelty and violence of this act shocked the nation and drew international attention to the violent struggle for civil rights, inspiring a wave of legislative action in Congress. "By 1964, Congress had passed the Civil Rights Act, a landmark achievement in the fight to outlaw discrimination. By 1965, Congress had passed the Voting Rights Act, which aimed to eliminate voting restrictions that unjustly disenfranchised qualified voters. "50 years later, it is fitting that we honor the lives of the four innocent children who inspired such monumental and lasting change in our country." ###
04.24.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) welcomed the announcement by the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to delay implementation of a new policy allowing passengers to carry certain knives and sporting equipment onboard airplanes. The policy would have gone into effect on Thursday, April 25, 2013. Congresswoman Waters were one of 133 Members of Congress who signed a letter sent to TSA Administrator John Pistole asking for the decision to be reversed:"This decision by the Transportation Security Administration to delay its knife policy change is a step in the right direction. TSA initially made this decision without any formal consultation with the Aviation Security Advisory Committee and stakeholders who would be most impacted by the policy. However, this temporary delay doesn't go far enough. "On September 11, 2001, our lives were changed forever and we will never forget the horror of that day. This is a dangerous policy change that defies logic, and it is not necessary for TSA to go back to the drawing board to make a common-sense decision. Knives are not needed on airplanes and should be banned permanently. "Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is located in my Congressional District. It is the sixth busiest airport in the world and third in the United States. Earlier this month, I joined flight attendants, pilots, air marshals, and law enforcement at LAX to oppose this policy change. The safety and security of the people who work in and pass through LAX is of paramount importance. "According to a recent survey, 73% of Americans do not want pocket knives allowed in airplane cabins. I urge TSA to continue the current policy, which bars all knives in airline passenger cabins." ###
04.24.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) will host a "Global Access Exporter Forum" at the Hawthorne Memorial Center on Friday, May 3. This event will be held in conjunction with Fred P. Hochberg, the chairman and president of the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Ex-Im Bank). It will include industry, academic and government experts who will help local businesses get the inside knowledge they need to maximize their exporting opportunities and increase sales. The Ex-Im Bank is an independent federal agency that helps create and maintain U.S. jobs by filling gaps in private export financing at no cost to American taxpayers. "Small businesses and entrepreneurs are the engine of our economy in California," said Congresswoman Waters. "It is important to provide assistance to our small businesses in order to expand their overseas sales, grow profits and create jobs at home. I will continue to do everything I can to help our local businesses grow and thrive." This free, small business event will be the second held by Congresswoman Waters in the past six weeks. On March 26, Congresswoman Waters held a small business expo for women-owned businesses. Who: Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) Fred P. Hochberg, chairman and president of the Export-Import Bank What: Small Business Export-Import Forum When: Friday, May 3, 2013 8:30 a.m. to Noon Where: Hawthorne Memorial Center The Venus Room 3901 W. El Segundo Blvd. Hawthorne, Calif. 90250 * Attendees are encouraged to RSVP at www.exim.gov/gasb. ###
04.19.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, joined by Representative Michael E. Capuano and 65 of their Democratic House colleagues, has released a letter to key Members of the House Committee on Appropriations urging adequate funding for critical community development and housing programs in the Fiscal Year 2014 Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) appropriations bill. The letter to THUD Appropriations Subcommittee Chairman Tom Latham and Ranking Member Ed Pastor urges support for proven federal programs that are critical to providing safe, decent, and affordable housing. This funding also increases investment in job creation, essential services for vulnerable populations and economic infrastructure development in communities across the country. The federal contribution to CDBG has been decreasing for the past three years despite the fact that state and local governments have been under increasing stress to address a wide spectrum of urgent community needs. "In order for cities and states to recover from a funding deterioration," write Waters and Capuano, "we request that you restore the program to the FY 2011 level of $3.3 billion." The letter also urges the appropriators to fully fund the administration's FY 2014 request of $4.6 billion for the Public Housing Operating fund and $2 billion for the Public Housing Capital fund. "Maintaining this investment is critically important so that these properties can continue to serve the 1.1 million households currently receiving assistance, many of which include the elderly or persons with disabilities," write Waters and Capuano. "Due to insufficient funding, 150,000 units of public housing have been lost to demolition, disposition or conversion over the past 15 years." ###
04.16.2013	Today, Congresswoman Waters joined millions of Americans in marking the annual celebration of March as Women's History Month – a commemoration that has occurred in America since 1987. "During Women's History Month, we celebrate the enormous progress that has been made for American women throughout our history and the women giants of our past who struggled, suffered and prevailed on behalf of the advancement of women," said Congresswoman Waters. "In the last several years, there have also been new gains for women. For example, there are now a record number of women serving in Congress – with 20 women now serving in the Senate and 81 women in the House." "We should also use Women's History Month as a time to recommit ourselves to the further progress that must be made for America's women. Women continue to face special economic challenges. More than 64 percent of minimum-wage workers are women and on average women still make only 77 cents for every dollar made by men." Now, women and their families face new challenges, with mindless, across-the-board cuts going into effect today on March 1. Unless these indiscriminate cuts are stopped, here are a few of the impacts on women and their families: • SBA loans to women-owned small businesses will be reduced by $250 million and women entrepreneurs will also lose an estimated $1.3 billion in government contracts, jeopardizing the jobs of up to 15,000 of their employees. • Up to 112,000 victims of domestic violence could lose access to domestic violence shelters and other services, due to a $29 million cut in domestic violence programs. • About 600,000 women and children will be dropped from the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), which provides vital nutrition assistance and prenatal care. • The parents of 30,000 children will lose essential help with their child care expenses, making it more difficult for them to hold a job. • 25,000 low-income women who rely on CDC funding for their breast and cervical cancer screenings are at risk of losing their coverage. • 70,000 children will lose access to Head Start. • The education of tens of thousands of children will be put in jeopardy, with 2,700 schools losing Title I funding, putting at risk the jobs of 10,000 teachers. I will continue to fight over the next several weeks and months to replace these damaging, indiscrimiate cuts that will hurt women and families with a balanced and responsible plan. I will also continue fighting to protect the gains women have made and support historic legislation to improve the lives of women and families across the country. ###
04.12.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement regarding the announcement by the United States Postal Service that it is canceling a proposal to eliminate mail delivery on Saturdays: "I strongly advocated against the proposal to eliminate Saturday mail delivery by the United States Postal Service (USPS) and I am pleased that USPS has finally withdrawn its proposal to end Saturday letter mail delivery this summer. The elimination of six-day mail delivery would have resulted in the loss of much needed local jobs. Further, this decision would have disrupted a service upon which thousands of residents in our district utilize to receive important personal, financial, and business correspondence. "In 2011, the U.S. Postal Service announced plans to close more than 10 percent of its 36,000 post offices throughout the country. I immediately called on USPS to consider alternatives to this plan. Last year, I introduced legislation, the Protecting Post Offices Act, which would not only protect the American postal worker but assist in making the U.S. Postal Service profitable by keeping local post offices open, and increasing their functionality to better serve their communities. I was joined by the National Association of Letter Carriers, AFL-CIO and the American Postal Workers Union in support of my bill to stabilize USPS. "For years, I have supported sound measures that would improve USPS. I will continue to monitor the U.S. Postal Service closely and push for Saturday mail delivery to remain in place permanently, so all Californians can have reliable mail service." ###
04.10.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters' office is now accepting submissions for the 2013 Congressional Art Competition. This annual competition is open to all high school students that reside or attend school in the 43rd Congressional District and offers students a chance to showcase their artistic talent and compete to have their submission displayed in the United States Capitol for a full year. The deadline for submissions is Monday, April 22, 2013 at 5:00 PM pacific time. "I am again pleased to announce the Congressional Art Competition to the young artists of California's 43rd Congressional District," said Congresswoman Waters. "I look forward to seeing the winner's artwork represent California and our district in the U.S. Capitol." Entries may be dropped off or mailed to Congressman Waters' Los Angeles Office, located at 10124 South Broadway Suite 1, Los Angeles, CA 90003. The office is opened Monday through Friday from 9:00am – 5:00pm. The competition is open to high school students only, however exceptions made be made for schools that have 7th through 12th grades on one campus. Students will be required to adhere to the rules of the competition and will need to submit all artwork with a corresponding student release form. The form and all guidelines regarding the competition can be found on Congresswoman Waters' website. For more information, please call (323) 757-8900. ###
04.09.2013	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) expressed opposition to the Transportation Security Administration's recent decision to allow passengers to bring knives and sporting equipment on planes. She delivered remarks at a press conference at the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) organized by the Association of Flight Attendants. Below are her remarks as prepared for delivery: "On September 11, 2001, our lives were changed forever! We will never forget the horror of that day! We will never forget how a small group of terrorists used knives and box cutters to take over four commercial airplanes, attack the passengers and crew, turn the planes into guided missiles, and use them to kill people on the ground. We will never forget the lives that were lost, and we will never forget how our whole nation united together in the face of such unimaginable evil. In the aftermath of these deadly attacks, Congress passed the Aviation Transportation Security Act, which established the Transportation Security Administration or TSA. TSA consists of a trained, professional workforce of federal employees who are responsible for screening airline passengers and protecting the security of our nation's commercial airlines. Congress also acted quickly to provide TSA with the authority and resources it needed to ensure the security of the American flying public. TSA's recent decision to change the list of prohibited items to allow passengers to bring knives and sporting equipment onboard planes defies logic. This new policy is unlikely to contribute to air travel security or efficiency. Instead, it will probably cause unnecessary delays at airport security checkpoints, while Transportation Security Officers inspect each individual knife to determine whether it exceeds the maximum size. It would be far more efficient to continue the current policy, which bars all knives. TSA apparently made this decision without any formal consultation with the people who would be most impacted by the decision – pilots, flight attendants, and air marshals. These are the people who are most likely to come into contact with a person who brings a weapon onboard an airplane. Indeed, these people are our nation's first line of defense against another deadly terrorist attack like 9-11. The Flight Attendant Union Coalition, the Coalition of Airline Pilots Association, and the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association have all announced their opposition to this new policy. TSA needs to reevaluate this policy. TSA needs to consult with the stakeholders who will be impacted by its decision. TSA needs to use appropriate channels, such as the Aviation Security Advisory Committee (ASAC), to consult with the flight crewmembers and air marshals who will be impacted by the policy. TSA needs to go back to the drawing board! I represent LAX. LAX is in my congressional district. LAX is the sixth busiest airport in the world and third in the United States. LAX offers more than 600 daily flights to 91 American cities. In 2011, LAX served more than 61 million passengers, processed more than 1.8 million tons of air cargo, and handled more than 600,000 landings and takeoffs. The safety and security of the people who work in and pass through LAX is of paramount importance. "I urge TSA to keep knives and sporting equipment on the list of prohibited items and consult with all stakeholders before making any changes to this critical list." ###
04.09.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) broke ground on a public works project that she secured one million dollars in federal funding to replace the sidewalk and plant new trees along a stretch of Sepulveda Boulevard in Westchester. Congresswoman Waters joined Los Angeles Councilmember Bill Rosendahl, along with members of the Westchester Streetscape Improvement Association, who worked with her to secure the grant in 2008 at the groundbreaking ceremony on Thursday, March 28. This long-awaited Westchester Streetscape Improvement Project started earlier this year when crews removed 17 ficus trees on the west side of Sepulveda Blvd. The tree removal has cleared the way for work to begin on a new sidewalk from 80th Street to 84th Place. The overgrown trees will also be replaced with new ones that will cause less damage. "Indeed, this is the first community that most travelers see upon arriving in Los Angeles, and the last one they see before they depart our city," said Congresswoman Waters. Until this project began, when tourists, business people, and Angelenos arrived at LAX, and came into the city via Sepulveda, they were greeted by the out of control ficus trees and the buckling sidewalks." "I am very happy to congratulate everyone who came together, stayed focused on the goal, and made it happen including Councilmember Rosendahl; John Ruhlen, President of the Westchester Streetscape Improvement Association; and Sheila Mickelson, President of the Westchester Democratic Club," Congresswoman Waters stated. "They all worked tirelessly to get this project off the ground and I hope that it will greatly enhance the look and feel of this community for years to come." ###
03.27.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, introduced the Project Rebuild Act of 2013 on Thursday afternoon. This legislation would provide funding for the rehabilitation of foreclosed and abandoned properties, helping to prevent the deterioration of neighborhoods which leads to plummeting housing prices and lower quality of life for residents. The new legislation builds on the success of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), authored by Congresswoman Waters and enacted over stiff opposition by the Bush administration before being signed into law as part of the Housing and Economic Opportunity Act of 2008. NSP was designed to address a glut of abandoned and foreclosed properties across the country which devastated communities by dragging down property values, increasing municipal fire and police costs, and causing the critical loss of property tax revenue. Since 2008, NSP has disbursed $7 billion to communities across the country, successfully rehabilitating over 100,000 units of housing and supporting 93,000 jobs. Project Rebuild is a cornerstone of the American Jobs Act, President Obama's plan to put workers back on the job while rebuilding and modernizing our communities. It would disburse an additional $15 billion in competitive grant funding over the next three years, support an estimated 191,000 jobs and treat at least 150,000 properties across all 50 states. Ranking Member Waters' Project Rebuild legislation would expand the size and the scope of NSP by making foreclosed, abandoned, or vacant commercial, as well as residential properties, eligible for formula and competitive grant rehabilitation and redevelopment funding. Project Rebuild will also make funding available for the establishment and operation of land banks, as well as the demolition of blighted structures. In introducing this legislation, Ranking Member Waters said, "Foreclosures are not only a tragedy for the families that lose their homes, they are a calamity for entire neighborhoods. Foreclosed properties are often boarded up, stripped, and vandalized, beginning the process of turning decent communities into blighted ones. Foreclosures cause housing prices to drop, hurting other homeowners as well as entire cities and towns. We should make every effort to help families avoid foreclosure – but when foreclosures occur we should do everything in our power to try to minimize more widespread, damaging effects." "Project Rebuild will help stabilize neighborhoods and reverse the rapid decline of our cities and towns," said Waters. "It will do exactly what its name says – it will help rebuild communities that are suffering from the after-effects of the financial crisis. And because the housing market recovery continues to be extremely fragile, Project Rebuild is an essential part of maintaining this recovery and helping to bring our economy back. Project Rebuild is based on a proven model and it deserves widespread, bipartisan support." The following members of Congress are original cosponsors of the legislation: Karen Bass, Joyce Beatty, Donna M. Christensen David Cicilline, Emanuel Cleaver, James Clyburn, Donna Edwards, Keith Ellison, Alcee Hastings, Eddie Bernice Johnson, Hank Johnson, Donald Payne, Cedric Richmond, David Scott, Terri Sewell, Bennie Thompson, Marc Veasey, Mel Watt and Frederica Wilson.
03.19.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) hosted "Women in Business: A Small Business Expo" on Tuesday, March 26 at the Lawndale Community Center. The event drew a standing-room-only crowd and provided information and resources to small business owners and interested entrepreneurs. "As we celebrate Women's History Month throughout March, it includes reflecting on the important role women business owners' play in our economy and why support for women's small business ownership is so important here in California and across our country," said Congresswoman Waters. "Women have accomplished amazing things in every area of business imaginable, but there is still work to be done. We must continue to seize opportunities to break new ground for women in both the public and private sector." According to the U.S. Census Bureau, California is one of just four states with at least 500,000 women-owned businesses and leads the United States with over one million. The government agencies and organizations in attendance at the expo included the U.S. Small Business Administration, U.S. Department of Labor Employee Benefits Security Administration, California Center for International Trade Development, Los Angeles County Economic Development Corporation, local chambers of commerce, and more.In the photograph below, Congresswoman Waters is shown at the expo with representatives from the California Center for International Trade Development and the U.S. Commercial Service. ###
03.14.2013	Today Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, reintroduced the FHA Emergency Fiscal Solvency Act. The legislation, co-sponsored by Representative Michael E. Capuano, Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Housing and Insurance, is designed to strengthen FHA and to help ensure its long-term solvency. In recent years, the agency has stepped into the void, providing crucial liquidity as private firms have retreated from writing mortgage insurance policies, particularly for key groups such as first time homebuyers. The provisions of the bill give FHA more flexibility to take action against loan originators who engage in faulty underwriting or who have high loan losses. Additional measures include authorizing the agency to require indemnification for improperly written loans. In reintroducing the bill, Ranking Member Waters said "This legislation takes an important step towards improving the financial stability of the FHA. Over 400 members of the House voted for an identical bill last Congress, which was drafted in the Financial Services Committee in a collaborative manner and on a bipartisan basis. Working with the Administration, we plan on drafting additional legislation to give FHA more tools to bolster its insurance fund. But this is an important first step, and should be considered immediately, given that it was supported on such an overwhelming, bipartisan majority in the last Congress. It is time to move beyond discussion of this issue and take action. " Congressman Capuano said "The House passed legislation reforming the Federal Housing Administration last year with the bipartisan support of 402 Members. There is clear agreement on the need to provide the FHA with additional risk management tools, increased transparency and enhanced reporting requirements. Let's move forward now with what we agree on and work together to make additional improvements" stated Congressman Mike Capuano. ###
03.13.2013	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) reintroduced the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act. This bill will provide an emergency supplemental appropriation of one billion dollars over the next two years for the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program, which creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure. The funding will be exempt from sequestration. The bill is cosponsored by 60 of Congresswoman Waters' colleagues. "The economy is struggling to recover from the recession," said Congresswoman Waters. "The unemployment rate is nearly eight percent nationwide and is even higher in minority and disadvantaged communities. Moreover, the American Society of Civil Engineers' 2009 Report Card for America's Infrastructure estimated that there is a $549.5 billion shortfall in investments in roads and bridges and an additional $190.1 billion shortfall in investments in transit." TIGER could finance a wide variety of innovative highway, bridge and transit projects in urban and rural communities across the country, provided there is sufficient funding. One such project is the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor in Los Angeles County, a light rail project that will run through Congresswoman Waters' district. TIGER grants could be used to finance stations along this corridor in the communities of Leimert Park and Westchester, thereby ensuring that these communities have access to light rail. Projects like this reduce gridlock and create safe, affordable, convenient, and environmentally sustainable transportation choices. "I call upon my colleagues to pass the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act, invest in our crumbling infrastructure, and create good jobs in communities across the United States," said Congresswoman Waters. TIGER received an appropriation of $500 million in fiscal year (FY) 2012, and the President requested $500 million in FY 2013. However, the Secretary of Transportation has been unable to organize a competition for TIGER grants in 2013 due to the uncertainty surrounding sequestration and fiscal year 2013 appropriations. "An emergency supplemental appropriation for TIGER will allow the Secretary of Transportation to begin immediately to organize new competitions for TIGER grants and allow states, local governments, and transit agencies to prepare grant applications, thus ensuring an efficient use of funds and timely job creation," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
03.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Today at a press conference on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) endorsed the Back to Work Budget, which was introduced by the Congressional Progressive Caucus and which creates jobs by increasing investments in infrastructure. Congresswoman Waters also simultaneously reintroduced her bill, the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act, which provides one billion over two years in emergency appropriations for transportation infrastructure. The following are her remarks as prepared for delivery: "I am proud to support the Back to Work Budget. This budget creates nearly 7 million jobs in the first year alone by investing in communities across the United States. "Over the next decade, the Back to Work Budget increases investments in housing and income assistance programs by $312 billion and increases investments in community and regional development programs like CDBG by $78 billion. "The Back to Work Budget also increases investments in transportation infrastructure by $1 trillion over the next decade. This critical investment can be used to put Americans back to work building our nation's highways, bridges, and mass transit. The American Society of Civil Engineers estimated that there is a $549 billion shortfall in investments in roads and bridges and an additional $190 billion shortfall in investments in transit. "One of the programs highlighted in the Back to Work Budget is the TIGER program. TIGER – formally known as Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery – is a competitive grant program that creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure by states and local governments. "Today, I am reintroducing the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act. This bill will provide an emergency supplemental appropriation of one billion dollars over the next two years for TIGER. And the money will be free from sequestration. This bill has over 50 original cosponsors, including many members of the Congressional Progressive Caucus. "I urge all of my colleagues to pass this Back to Work Budget and put Americans back to work building our infrastructure and investing in our communities." ###
03.11.2013	As part of the annual National Education Association's Read Across America Day, Congresswoman Maxine Waters read Dr. Seuss stories to students at Lomita Math/Science Magnet School, located in her 43rd Congressional District on Friday, March 1: "It was my privilege to serve as a special guest at Lomita Math/Science Magnet School's Read Across America Day. As a parent, I know how important it is to get our children to enjoy reading at such an early age and help them succeed in school. It is our joint responsibility as parents, teachers, neighbors and elected leaders to ensure that our children are flourishing in school, and this program is an exceptional resource to help us reach that goal. "This event recognized the importance of student literacy, and it was great to see the entire community of Lomita come together and rally around the significance of reading with our children. Every parent, teacher, and community leader should continue to encourage our children to pick up a book and read, not just to learn, but for the pure enjoyment of reading. "Even though many of the children were familiar with, "Green Eggs and Ham," they seemed excited and pleased that the Dr. Seuss' book was being read to them by a Member of Congress. I ended the book reading explaining to the children that before they say no to an offer to taste new foods especially fruits and vegetables, they should try it first." Congresswoman Waters read to the 2nd grade classes of Ms. Thayer, and the fifth grade classes of Ms. Wong and Ms. Hseih. Read Across America is an annual reading motivation and awareness program started in 1997 that aims to promote student literacy and falls on or near March 2, the birthday of children's author Dr. Seuss . The event at Lomita Math/Science Magnet School was one of many held across California and nationwide. ###
03.04.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today in celebration of the unveiling of the Rosa Parks statue in Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol. "Today we honored the heroic spirit of one of the most remarkable women in our nation's history by dedicating a statue to the great Rosa Parks in the United States Capitol. Known as "the first lady of civil rights" and "the mother of the freedom movement," Ms. Parks stood up for civil rights by refusing to give up her seat on a Montgomery, Ala. city bus in 1955. "Rosa Parks is a champion who will be forever remembered for her courage to stand up for what she believed. Her decision to remain seated, driven by her feeling of being "tired of giving in," helped to move this nation closer to its ideals and was a critical step forward in this nation's pursuit of a more perfect union. "During my time in the California State Assembly and as president of the Black Women's Forum, I had the honor of paying tribute to Ms. Parks at a special celebration in Los Angeles. The award included an honorarium, which was presented to the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development, an institute that provided unique programs to train future and present leaders. "It is entirely appropriate that her statue take its rightful place among Presidents and other historic figures in the National Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol. Ms. Parks is the first African American to have a full-size statue in the hall. "Rosa Parks was a pillar of strength for the civil rights movement and courageously met injustice head-on. She continues to inspire us today, and will forever remain one of America's beacons of courage and hope for her generation, and generations to come." Congresswoman Waters is pictured below with the newly unveiled Rosa Parks statue in Statuary Hall. ###
02.28.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) released the following statement today after the House passage of the bi-partisan Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization bill: "As a co-sponsor of the strong bi-partisan Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) Reauthorization bill, I am pleased that my colleagues came together to reauthorize this critical piece of legislation today. This passage comes after a dangerous Republican VAWA substitute that rolled back essential protections in the bi-partisan bill failed in the House yesterday. Today's vote is a victory for women and the entire nation. The victims of domestic violence, dating violence, and sexual assault had waited long enough." "Since its enactment, VAWA has had a strong history of uniting lawmakers with the common purpose of protecting survivors of domestic violence-- as it should be. Protecting women from violence should be above partisan politics. Throughout California and the country, thousands of Americans who fall victim to domestic violence, human trafficking, sexual assault, dating violence and stalking no longer have to live in fear because of important victim protections under this law. "This bipartisan House-passed bill significantly strengthens the ability of the Federal Government, the States, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. It also includes provisions to ensure that all victims of domestic violence receive the protection they need – including providing new protections, based on findings from experts in the field, for tribal members, immigrants and members of the LGBT community. "I commend my colleagues and those who have worked tirelessly to get this legislation reauthorized, which will now be signed into law by President Obama. This legislation will make a real difference in the lives of women, children, and families by providing them with vital protection against abuse and will ensure that law enforcement has the essential tools to combat violence." ###
02.27.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement today regarding the United States Supreme Court review of Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act in Shelby County v. Holder. Congresswoman Waters joined Members of the Tri-Caucus (Congressional Black Caucus, Congressional Hispanic Caucus, and Asian Pacific American Caucus) on the steps of the Supreme Court as the court prepared to hear oral arguments. "The Voting Rights Act is still one of the most critical and successful pieces of legislation that protects the right to vote for all Americans. Under specific review today was Section 5, which requires states and municipalities with a history of discrimination to seek federal pre-clearance before changing their election laws or procedures. This challenge is a threat to the basic principle of our democracy that every citizen's voice should be heard and their vote protected by our government. "The Voting Rights Act is directly responsible for outlawing the discriminatory practices that had disenfranchised African-Americans and it remains essential for protecting the voting power of our growing Latino, Asian and other minority populations. Although the poll taxes, literacy tests and voter intimidation tactics of 50 years ago have been replaced by photo ID laws and limits on early voting; still, the game remains the same: deny and prevent minorities from exercising their fundamental right to vote as American citizens. It is in this context that it is clear that Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act is as relevant now as it was nearly five decades ago. "This is not an issue of race or of political ideology. It is a threat to the very fabric on which our democracy was built and the foundation upon which it stands. We should not be making it more difficult for voters to cast their ballot. We should be working to do everything we can to improve access and participation in the democratic process. "While it may be months before a final decision is reached, the potential consequences of an unfavorable ruling cannot be overemphasized. The outcome of this ruling could roll back hard-earned voting rights, dilute the voting power of growing populations and empower those who seek to implement new tricks to keep minorities from the polls. I urge the Supreme Court to uphold Section 5 of the Voting Rights Act and maintain the free exercise of voting rights of all Americans." ###
02.27.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS through increased prevention, testing, treatment, and funding, reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act today. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other people in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. In a previous Congress in 2009, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote (H.R. 1429). However, the Senate did not complete action on the bill prior to adjournment. The bill is now H.R. 895 and has 28 original cosponsors. "AIDS is spreading in our nation's jails and prisons. According to the Department of Justice, the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons is 2.5 times the rate in the general population," said Congresswoman Waters. "We need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society. That includes our nation's prison system." Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the bill this week in honor of AIDSWatch, an annual gathering of HIV-positive individuals from across the country who come together to advocate policies to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic. AIDSWatch is organized by the Treatment Access Expansion Project and AIDS United this year, and took place in Washington, DC, on Feb. 25-26. ###
02.26.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today released a letter to Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Thomas Curry, Comptroller of the Currency, seeking additional, detailed information from the regulators about the termination of the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR). Ranking Member Waters has been a leading advocate for foreclosure prevention, and has closely monitored the IFR since its inception in early 2011. Designed to investigate abuses by mortgage servicers, the IFR abruptly came to an end on Jan. 7 when the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve reached a tentative $9.3 billion settlement with mortgage servicers. The settlement is intended to resolve claims of wrongdoing by the servicers against an estimated 4.4 million borrowers. To better understand why the IFR was cancelled and how the settlement amount was determined, Ranking Member Waters has requested that the regulators provide detailed information pertaining to the IFR including Policies and Procedures documents created by independent consultants outlining how loan files were to be reviewed by analysts, information on error rates of reviewed loan files, guidelines issued by the regulators to independent consultants relating to the foreclosure notice process, and other pertinent information. Earlier this month, Ranking Member Waters sent a letter to both regulators soliciting information about the settlement's terms, and requesting that they include provisions concerning a minimum amount for principal reductions, and other measures to more immediately assist borrowers who remain in their homes. ###
02.22.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) received a tour of Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX) on Feb. 19, the world's fastest growing launch services provider, located in her district in the city of Hawthorne. SpaceX is home to the Dragon spacecraft--the first privately developed spacecraft in history to visit the International Space Station. While it will initially carry cargo, SpaceX's Dragon spacecraft was designed to carry astronauts. Congresswoman Waters toured the facility with SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell and company CFO Bret Johnsen. "As a company that is building the world's most advanced rockets and spacecraft, I was excited about my opportunity to tour the SpaceX facility today," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am thrilled that SpaceX continues the great tradition of aerospace history in the South Bay area. SpaceX has surely made its presence felt on Crenshaw Blvd and Rocket Road, and is a budding source of local pride." "SpaceX employs over 3,000 talented men and women—most of them right here in Hawthorne," said Gwynne Shotwell, President of SpaceX. "We are incredibly grateful for the skilled workforce here in Southern California—SpaceX has enjoyed a tremendous amount of success over the last few years and we are proud to be headquartered in this community." The company currently holds a $1.6 billion NASA contract to provide cargo services to and from the space station and was recently awarded a $440 million NASA contract to engineer the final developments necessary to prepare Dragon to fly crew. Pictured below from (L to R) SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell and Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43). ###
02.21.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) issued the following statement today regarding the upcoming March 1 sequester deadline: "The clock is ticking and the deadline is quickly approaching to avert across-the-board spending cuts known as the sequester, which is scheduled to take effect on Friday, March 1. The $85 billion in automatic spending cuts will have a devastating impact on families throughout the country, and will slow economic growth and job creation. "If sequestration occurs, services and programs that millions of Americans rely on like Meals on Wheels, Head Start, and rental assistance programs for low-income families would be affected. In addition, sequestration would eliminate funding for State and local grants that support firefighter positions and local emergency management personnel, force furloughs for patrol agents who secure our borders, and food inspectors who make certain that the food we eat is safe. "Instead of placing significant services and the well-being of our citizens at risk, we need to work to avoid sequestration, and enact a balanced approach built on responsible spending cuts, increased revenues, and growth with jobs. As the President pointed out in his State of the Union Address, the focus of the next two years must be creating jobs and strengthening our economic growth. There are still too many unemployed Americans. Our top priority needs to be making America a magnet for new jobs. "I urge my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to join with me and take action now on key proposals put forth by the President that would strengthen the economy including bringing good manufacturing jobs back to America, creating clean energy jobs, upgrading our infrastructure, and rebuilding our housing sector." ###
02.12.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) spoke out against the U.S. internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II at an event marking the third annual "Fred Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the Constitution,'' a day which honors Korematsu who challenged the government's incarceration camps for Japanese-Americans. The event was held on Saturday, Jan. 26 at the Katy Geissert Civic Center Library in Torrance. "Fred Korematsu was a tireless advocate for human and civil rights. Korematsu and his family were ordered to an internment camp in 1942 along with thousands of Japanese-Americans because they were suspected of sabotage after the attack by Japan on Pearl Harbor, but he refused to go. He stated that the camp was "not fit for human habitation," said Congresswoman Waters. "In the last years of his life, he continued to fight for the civil liberties of Americans of all races, religions and ethnic background including working to highlight the racial discrimination and profiling of Muslim Americans after the 9/11 attacks." Fred Korematsu Day of Civil Liberties and the Constitution is the first day in United States History named after an Asian American. The day was established under a bill signed into law on Sept. 23, 2010, and is observed on Jan. 30 on Mr. Korematsu's birthday. During the event, Congresswoman Waters presented a certificate to Mr. Korematsu's daughter, Karen who served as the keynote speaker. The certificate read as follows: "On the occasion of the 2013 Fred Korematsu Day event organized by the Greater LA Singles, South Bay, and Torrance Chapters of the Japanese American Citizens League in partnership with the Japanese American Historical Society of Southern California; and in appreciation of your dedication to preserving your father, Fred Korematsu's legacy through your work and service as co-founder of the Fred T. Korematsu Institute for Civil Rights and Education; you have my very best wishes for continued success in your mission to advance civil and human rights through education."Attached photograph: (L to R) Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) and Karen Korematsu, daughter of Fred Korematsu. ###
02.12.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) welcomed constituents of the 43rd district in town for the Presidential inaugural ceremonies to her Washington, D.C. office during Inauguration weekend. "It was wonderful to meet with my constituents as they traveled to Washington to witness the second inauguration of President Barack Obama on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day," said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. "It was a historic moment for our country, and I'm honored my constituents had an opportunity to take part in it." Congresswoman Waters was also active in attending several events during inauguration weekend. She was a guest at the Misinformation Ball on Friday, Jan. 18 hosted by David Brock, founder of Media Matters for America and American Bridge 21st Century Foundation at the United States Institute of Peace which sits just beyond the northwest corner of the National Mall. On Saturday, Jan. 19, she attended a screening of Eugene Jarecki's documentary called "The House I Live In" at the Shiloh Baptist Church in D.C. The documentary gave an account of America's war on drugs and considers how it's influenced the state of the nation's prisons, finances, and families. After the screening, John Legend performed his cover of Frank Sinatra's original song "The House I Live In," which Jarecki named the film after. The performance was followed by a panel discussion with Glover, Jarecki, Rep. Robert Scott (D-VA), and Harvard Law professor Charles Ogletree. "I have been a long time advocate for ending the war on drugs that continues to harm low-income communities, minorities and millions of Americans," said Congresswoman Waters. "I was delighted to attend this screening co-produced by one of my dear friends Danny Glover, along with Brad Pitt, Russell Simmons and John Legend." On Sunday afternoon, Congresswoman Waters attended the third annual America's Sunday Supper campaign, one of a series of national, grassroots community gatherings designed to bring people together to share a meal and discuss ways people of all political persuasions, races and ethnicities, ages and faiths can collaborate to meet urgent local needs. Hosted by Points of Light at the United States Institute of Peace, it included 240 thought and industry leaders who discussed societal challenges related to education and economic opportunity. Other invited guests included General Colin and Alma Powell, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and National Urban League's Marc Morial. On Monday, Jan. 21, Congresswoman Waters were one of approximately 200 guests at the 57th Presidential Inaugural Luncheon held in the National Statuary Hall at the U.S. Capitol directly after the Inaugural Ceremony. ###
02.12.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters released the following statement regarding the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) plans to end Saturday mail delivery: "The announcement by Postmaster General Patrick Donahoe to eliminate Saturday first-class mail delivery starting in August without support of Congress is an arbitrary decision. Our constituents will be disadvantaged by this loss, especially our businesses that depend on timely and reliable mail delivery in order to operate a successful business. The transitioning of mail delivery to five days a week could affect future employment at USPS and this is unacceptable. At a time when our economy has not fully recovered from the recession, this only adds to its ability to not function as well as it could. According to the Department of Labor, Postal Service employees reached a peak of 909,000 in early 1999, and the latest data from last month shows 601,300 employees. We cannot continue to allow Postal Service jobs to decline because the direction and growth of the economy depends on Americans having jobs. I have been vocal in my opposition to proposals that would affect jobs at the U.S. Postal Service including in 2011 when USPS announced plans to close more than 10 percent of its 36,000 post offices throughout the country. Last year, I introduced the Protecting Post Offices Act (H.R. 3916), which would reduce the operating costs of the U.S. Postal Service to provide continued service in urban and rural communities and save 28,000 American jobs. My bill was supported by the American Postal Workers Union and the AFL-CIO. "Eliminating Saturday mail delivery is not the right answer for the American people. I urge USPS to reconsider its decision, and to continue to provide the six-day mail delivery services that our constituents and businesses rely upon." ###
02.08.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) expressed her strong opposition to the Los Angeles Board of Airport Commissioners' decision to move LAX's north runway. The board voted yesterday to approve the Environmental Impact Report (EIR) for the LAX Specific Plan Amendment Study (SPAS), including the staff-recommended Alternatives 1 and 9. Alternative 1 involves moving LAX's northernmost runway 260 feet farther north towards the neighboring communities. Alternative 9 involves ground transportation improvements, including the construction of a consolidated rental car facility, an intermodal transportation facility, and an automated people mover. Leading individuals and organizations in the communities surrounding LAX reject Alternative 1 and support Alternative 2, which would leave the runways where they are, along with Alternative 9. "I strongly oppose the board's decision to move the north runway closer to the homes and businesses north of LAX. Moving this runway is completely unnecessary and will exacerbate the airport-related noise, pollution, and traffic congestion in the communities surrounding the airport," said Congresswoman Waters."I join with other individuals and organizations in our community to urge the city of Los Angeles to reject the board's decision and approve Alternatives 2 and 9." Congresswoman Waters has repeatedly expressed her opposition to proposals to move LAX's north runway. In 2007, she introduced the LAX Community Safety Act (H.R. 2872), which would have prevented LAWA from moving the north runway farther to the north. After LAWA released its draft EIR last year, she reiterated her opposition to runway relocation, and she expressed her support for alternatives 2 and 9 and her opposition to any other alternatives. "My first priority is ensuring an excellent quality of life for my constituents. The families and businesses of Westchester, Playa del Rey, Inglewood, El Segundo, Lennox, Hawthorne and South Los Angeles have to live every day with the noise, air pollution, and traffic congestion caused by LAX operations. I cannot support allowing the airport to intrude any further into these communities," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
02.07.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement today in response to the passing of former Congresswoman Cardiss Collins: "I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of former Congresswoman Cardiss Collins. As the first African-American woman to serve in Congress from Illinois, and the second woman to serve as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congresswoman Collins paved the way for minority women in Congress. I will cherish the opportunity I had to know and work with her. For more than two decades, Congresswoman Collins served the people of Illinois with courage and dedication to the best interests of her constituents and our country. A trailblazer and a true champion, she worked tirelessly on some of the most significant issues of our time including gender equality, and protecting the civil and economic rights of African-Americans in her community. "I extend my condolences to her son, Kevin and her granddaughter, Candice. My thoughts and prayers are with them during their time of grief." ###
02.07.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a longtime leader in the fight to combat the spread of HIV/AIDS both in the United States and around the world, released the following statement today in recognition of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: "Today marks the 13th annual National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. This is a day set aside to increase HIV awareness and enhance prevention, testing and treatment among African-Americans, and also to recognize the progress that has been made in the ongoing fight to combat this horrible illness. HIV/AIDS has had a disturbing impact on African-American communities in the United States. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, African-Americans make up just 14% of the U.S. population, but account for 44% of all new HIV infections, as well as almost half of all people living with HIV. Approximately one in 16 African-American men will be diagnosed with HIV during their lifetime, as will one in 32 African-American women. I will continue my efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which I established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, who are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. The initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. I supported the reauthorization and expansion of the Ryan White HIV/AIDS treatment programs. I also plan to reintroduce the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 3547), which requires a comprehensive plan to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in Federal prisons. Finally, I am working to expand access to routine HIV testing by reintroducing the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act, which requires health insurance plans to cover HIV tests as routine preventive health procedures. "We cannot turn a blind eye to an epidemic that has devastated the African-American community and threatened the lives and well-being of so many Americans. We must make it a top priority to stop the spread of HIV infection and get those infected to treatment early. I urge my friends, colleagues and African-Americans around the world to remain vigilant in fighting this disease. There is more work to be done, and each of us must do all that we can to eradicate HIV/AIDS worldwide." ###
02.05.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee, today released the following statement in response to the announcement by the Department of Justice that it has filed a civil suit against Standard & Poor's Rating Services (S&P): "I want to commend the Justice Department for taking long overdue action to hold S&P accountable for its conduct leading up to the 2008 financial crisis. For years, credit ratings agencies artificially inflated the housing market by issuing AAA ratings for securities based largely on predatory, subprime mortgages with little or no scrutiny. Due to the agencies' high ratings for collateralized debt obligations (CDO) and other toxic assets, many banks bought risky debts that they would have normally avoided, fueling the subprime meltdown that led to the financial crisis. Given the power and influence credit ratings agencies have on the market and investor confidence, they should be held to a higher standard of accountability. And to the extent any one credit ratings agency, or its employees, knowingly engaged in fraudulent conduct, the Justice Department should prosecute those offenses to the full extent of the law." ###
02.05.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, ranking member of the House Financial Services Committee, today sent the attached letter to Jeb Hensarling, chairman of the committee, requesting that he hold a hearing about the abrupt end of the Independent Foreclosure Review (IFR) process: On Jan. 7, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve Board announced a settlement in which 14 mortgage servicing companies agreed to replace the process with an $8.5 billion settlement, effectively terminating the IFR. Ranking Member Waters has been a leading advocate for foreclosure prevention. Early last month, she issued a statement expressing concern about the abrupt announcement of the blanket settlement, questioning how the settlement amount was determined and how recovery amounts will be distributed to eligible households. On Jan. 31, Waters sent a letter sent to Ben Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Thomas Curry, comptroller of the currency, requesting greater transparency in the IFR termination process. She also called for inclusion of provisions in the final settlement identifying a minimum amount for principal reductions, an escalation process for homeowners, and the prevention of foreclosures for the 4.4 million borrowers still in their homes. Congresswoman Waters has closely monitored the IFR since the inception of the program in early 2011, and she has raised numerous questions about the design, execution, efficacy and fairness of the process. In 2012 she requested that the Government Accountability Office (GAO) study and issue a report to Congress detailing its findings about the complexity of IFR materials sent to borrowers, the lack of independence of consultants selected to review homeowner files, and other issues impacting the treatment of homeowners threatened with foreclosure. ###
02.05.2013	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a long-time advocate for development assistance and democracy for Haiti, called for free, fair, and inclusive elections in Haiti and urged support for the development of effective political institutions and stable, just and democratic governance. She made her remarks at a briefing on post-earthquake reconstruction in Haiti entitled, "Building back better needs open doors: Accountability is essential for a just reconstruction." The briefing was organized by the Haiti Advocacy Working Group (HAWG) as part of a series called "Remembering the Haitian Earthquake of 2010: Accountability for Haiti." Below are her remarks as prepared for delivery: "The theme for this panel says it all! "Building back better needs open doors: Accountability is essential for a just reconstruction." Three years after the earthquake, more than 350,000 Haitians still live in tent camps. Money can be pledged, and promises can be made. But without accountability, there will be no progress. According to a recent analysis by the New York Times, the United States has more than $1 billion allocated for Haiti sitting in the Treasury, and the global Red Cross has an additional $500 million for Haiti sitting in its accounts. Meanwhile, at least $7.5 billion in official aid and private contributions has been disbursed. But much of the money that was disbursed was never actually spent. It was simply shifted from one bank account to another. For example, the United States long ago disbursed $65 million to the Haiti Reconstruction Fund for a large housing project in Port-au-Prince. The fund issued a news release in January of 2011 promising houses for 50,000 people and then transferred the money to the World Bank, which is executing the project. The money is still there, and the contracts have just been signed. Accountability requires oversight in Congress and in the donor community. It also requires effective political institutions and stable, just and democratic governance in Haiti. Reconstruction and development require organization, planning, and oversight. These are functions that are properly carried out by a government. It takes a government to make certain that houses are built near jobs and infrastructure; that children have schools in their neighborhoods; that farmers have roads to take their goods to market. Everything involved in development – from holding aid agencies accountable to urban planning to clean water – requires good, effective governance. I have been concerned about the need for good governance in Haiti for many years. Haiti has a long, tragic history of dictatorship under the regimes of "Papa Doc" and "Baby Doc" Duvalier, which lasted from 1957 until 1986. Since then, Haiti has not been able to build strong and enduring democratic institutions. Haiti is currently facing an electoral crisis because parliamentary and municipal elections are long overdue. These elections should have taken place in November of 2011, but they have not even been scheduled yet. Because of the overdue elections, one third of the seats in the Haitian Senate are vacant. Indeed, it is very difficult for the Senate to meet at all because if even a few Senators are absent, there is no quorum. Meanwhile, President Martelly has appointed mayors to replace the mayors whose terms have expired, but these mayors lack the legitimacy of duly elected mayors. Elections in Haiti are supposed to be organized by a Permanent Electoral Council (CEP). Haiti's constitution was amended last June to establish a new process for appointing members to the CEP. According to the amended constitution, the three branches of the government – the executive branch, the legislative branch, and the judicial branch – are supposed to appoint three members each to the CEP. So the CEP should have a total of nine members. The executive and judicial branches have each appointed members to the CEP, although not without controversy. The legislative branch has been unable to appoint members to the CEP because of the fact that one third of the Senate seats are vacant. The remaining Senators are understandably reluctant to vote for permanent members to the CEP. I understand that President Martelly and parliament are currently working on a compromise agreement whereby a commission will establish a transitional CEP, which will run the next election. Once the vacant Senate seats are filled through this election, a permanent CEP can then be established. It is obvious that Haiti needs a credible and representative CEP in order to organize free, fair and inclusive elections. And Haiti needs free, fair and inclusive elections in order to have a functioning parliament and a stable, democratic, and effective government. "Haiti will never be able to determine its own future until it develops good governance." ###
01.25.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee (HFSC), today released the following statement in response to the news that President Barack Obama will nominate Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The CFPB was established by the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which was drafted and signed into law during the period in which Ms. Waters was Chairwoman of the HFSC Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. I strongly welcome President Obama's nomination of Richard Cordray to head the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Under his very capable leadership, the Bureau has swiftly put in place critical mortgage lending rules which will provide much stronger protections for American families. Because of his work, consumers will have significantly better information upon which to make borrowing decisions and deceitful lenders will be prevented from deliberately steering customers into risky mortgages. Furthermore, Mr. Cordray has aggressively pursued unscrupulous mortgage servicers who have forced many Americans to lose their homes. I heartily welcome the President's nomination of Richard Cordray, and I urge my Senate colleagues to confirm him. ###
01.25.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee, today welcomed President Obama's nomination of Mary Jo White to be the next chairman of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), stating: I offer my congratulations to Mary Jo White on being nominated to chair the SEC. Ms. White has had a very distinguished record serving as U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York. This very important position will afford her the opportunity to demonstrate the same energy and commitment in carrying out the SEC's mandate to implement Wall Street reform while strongly enforcing investor protections and the nation's securities laws. ###
01.17.2013	A contingent of 12 Members of the House of Representatives today filed an amicus brief in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in support of the Securities and Exchange Commission's Resource Extraction Rule. The rule is based on a provision in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The rule is designed to help investors and ensure more stable and growing capital markets through transparency while also combating the developing world's so-called "resource curse," where natural resources are squandered by ineffectual or corrupt governments or otherwise fail to benefit local communities. The scourge of many countries in Africa and Asia, this curse currently means that in many developing nations like the Democratic Republic of the Congo, natural resources are used only to benefit a small, often corrupt, political elite. The list of Members signing the amicus brief includes: Rep. Edward J. Markey (D-Mass.), Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), Rep. Eliot L. Engel (D-N.Y.), Rep. Jim McDermott (D-Wash.), Gregory W. Meeks (D-N.Y.), Rep. Betty McCollum (D-Minn.), Rep. Jim Moran (D-Va.), Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-Ore.), Rep. André Carson (D-Ind.), Rep. Sam Farr (D-Calif.), Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.), and Rep. Barbara J. Lee (D-Calif.). For a link to the brief filed today, please click here. The filing of this amicus stems from the passage of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010, which mandates in Section 1504 that oil, gas and mining companies listed on US exchanges disclose to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) payments they make to governments for the extraction of oil and mineral resources. After the rule was released, the American Petroleum Institute (API), the Chamber of Commerce, and others jointly filed suit against the SEC, claiming, among other things, that the agency used a flawed cost-benefit analysis and failed to carve out exemptions for non-transparent governments. In the amicus brief filed today, the twelve Members of Congress strongly oppose the claims made by those organizations. In the brief, the lawmakers argue that contrary to the claims of API and the Chamber, the SEC acted with all necessary deliberation and did so consistent with the intent of Congress and the mandates of the law. As the Members argue in the brief: "Congress and the Commission have had good reason for devoting so much time and energy to requiring corporate disclosures: increased disclosure goes to the very heart of the Commission's mission to protect investors and the markets. Undisclosed payments are corrosive to free enterprise. They destroy trust and transparency. They obscure valuations and penalize sensible business practices. Investors and the public need to be able to fully evaluate whether a company has properly addressed the commercial, political, and legal risks it faces when operating around the globe in environments where corruption is rife and rule of law weak. The Resource Extraction Rule, and the country-by-country and project-by-project data that will be disclosed under it, are critical to giving investors and the public the ability to make these evaluations." Congress passed Section 1504 of Dodd-Frank as part of an effort to combat the developing world's "resource curse." The Resource Extraction Rule should also prove a boon to domestic investors and the American public as it will shine a light on some of the commercial, political, and legal risks that companies may face related to their investments. "It is true that the Resource Extraction Rule will help reduce corruption and aid in the alleviating of the Resource Curse for developing countries. But it will also shine a light for investors on the true value of a company's oil, gas, and mining projects. There is information that will be disclosed under the Resource Extraction Rule that is material information for investors; there can be no doubt that the Commission is the proper organization to release and enforce the rule as mandated by Congress." In June, a bipartisan contingent of more than 55 Members of the House sent a letter to the SEC calling for the Commission to finally release the Resource Extraction Rule. The Commission voted to promulgate the rule in August 2012. A copy of that letter is available HERE. The brief was filed in the case of American Petroleum Institute v. Securities and Exchange Commission, Docket Number 12-1398. Rep. Markey is the Ranking Member of the House Natural Resources Committee. Rep. Waters is the Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee. Rep. Engel is the Ranking Member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Rep. McDermott is the Ranking Member of the House Ways and Means Committee's Subcommittee on Trade.Congresswoman Maxine Waters has been deeply involved in international development issues and has been a strong proponent of greater transparency in extractive industries. She was a member of the Dodd-Frank conference committee, and helped ensure that a provision addressing this issue was included in the final version of the Act. In the 110th Congress, Congresswoman Waters co-sponsored a precursor bill on resource extraction. She strongly believes that the industry challenge to the SEC's rule is a wrong, and she plans to continue to work to make sure this provision of Dodd-Frank is implemented as intended.
01.11.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43) prepared the following remarks for the City of Los Angeles Planning Department's public hearing today regarding the LAX Specific Plan Amendment Study Draft Environmental Impact Report (SPAS Draft EIR): I appreciate the willingness of the Department of City Planning to convene this public hearing and listen to the concerns of the community regarding plans to modify and expand Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). However, I share the concerns of the community regarding the timing of this hearing. The public comment period on the LAX Specific Plan Amendment Study Draft Environmental Impact Report (SPAS Draft EIR) was just concluded in October, and the Board of Airport Commissioners has yet to vote on a preferred alternative. The staff of Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) has recommended to the Board of Airport Commissioners a combination of Alternative 1, which involves moving the northernmost runway 260 feet farther north, and Alternative 9, which involves ground transportation improvements, including the construction of a consolidated rental car facility and an automated people mover. While there is broad support in the community for the ground transportation improvements, there is overwhelming opposition to Alternative 1. I joined with leading individuals and organizations in the community in opposition to Alternative 1 and in support of Alternative 2, which does not involve moving the runway. There is still time for the Board of Airport Commissioners to listen to the concerns of the community and recommend Alternatives 2 and 9 – rather than Alternatives 1 and 9 – to the City of Los Angeles before the Department of City Planning will be required to consider LAWA's proposal. I have always been deeply concerned about issues related to LAX during my career representing what is now the 43rd Congressional District, which includes LAX. I have always been committed to balancing the needs of the airport with the needs of the surrounding community. LAX is an important economic engine and a job creator for my entire congressional district, but it is also responsible for a significant amount of noise, air pollution and traffic congestion for everyone who lives nearby. When LAWA proposed a huge airport expansion plan that would have exacerbated these problems back in 2002, I opposed the plan and introduced the Careful Airport Planning (CAP) for Southern California Act (H.R. 5144), which would have capped LAX traffic at 78 million passengers a year and prevented LAX from expanding beyond its current capacity. The bill would also have promoted a regional approach to airport development in Southern California, with an emphasis on community determination and economic opportunity. Following the proposal of Alternative D in 2003, I submitted testimony on the proposed LAX master plan. My testimony opposed Alternative D on the grounds that it would demolish homes and disturb communities without improving the safety and security of LAX. In 2005, I joined together with the Alliance for a Regional Solution to Airport Congestion (ARSAC) to support the election of Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa after Mayor James Hahn broke his pledge to ARSAC by supporting LAX expansion. In 2007, I introduced the LAX Community Safety Act (H.R. 2872). This legislation would have prevented LAWA from moving the northernmost runway farther to the north. At that time, I warned that relocating this runway farther to the north would have increased noise, air pollution, and other environmental impacts on residents, schools, churches, and businesses in the communities to the north and east of LAX. In 2010, a joint panel between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and academic experts studied the airport's configuration and concluded, "The North Airfield of LAX is extremely safe under the current configuration." I welcomed this conclusion, as did Westchester residents, many of whom could have been forced to leave their homes if the runways had been moved. Throughout the past decade, I have had the pleasure of working with a variety of individuals and organizations in the community on airport issues. I worked closely with ARSAC, under the leadership of attorney Valeria Velasco and with the valuable input of El Segundo Mayor Mike Gordon, since deceased, to propose alternatives to LAX expansion. I continue to value the perspectives of Denny Schneider, the current president of ARSAC; Cindy Hench, Westchester/Playa Neighborhood Council President; Craig Eggers, the Chair of their Airport Relations Committee; Sheila Mickelson, President of the Westchester Democratic Club; Terry Marcellus of the Westchester/Playa Airport Relations Committee; and many others, too numerous to mention, as we all try to preserve good jobs in the neighborhood of LAX, mitigate the harmful impacts of airport operations, and balance the needs of LAX with the needs of the community. Ultimately, we are all interested in ensuring the safety of our families and the flying public. We respect the fact that LAX is an economic engine for the Southern California region, and we recognize that LAX is important for job creation and economic opportunity. We also respect that LAWA officials and LAX employees work hard every day to ensure the safety and security of the airport. We work with LAX whenever we can to support the needs of the airport, and to make certain that LAX continues to create good jobs and encourage people around the world to come to Southern California for business and for pleasure. I have met with Gina Marie Lindsey and heard her perspective as the C.E.O. of LAWA. I met with Maria Elena Durazo, Executive Secretary-Treasurer of the L.A. County Federation of Labor, whose primary concern is job creation. I have always been a big supporter of organized labor, and I respect the fact that our positions may differ on this issue. I have also met with Alan Rothenberg, the past president of LAWA's Board of Airport Commissioners, who is heading up a coalition of business leaders, including the Los Angeles Chamber of Commerce, who would like to ensure that LAX can accommodate an increased volume of the large Airbus A380 aircraft. Despite the good intentions of all of these persons and entities that support and deem a move of the northernmost runway 260 feet farther north as a positive and productive enhancement to our world class airport – I respectfully disagree, and I continue to support the leadership and sentiments of the people who live and work in the surrounding community. My first priority is ensuring an excellent quality of life for the residents that have worked so hard for so long to protect this community from being overrun and endangered by the intrusion and expansion of LAX into our neighborhoods. The bottom line is that the businesses and families of Westchester, Playa del Rey, Inglewood, El Segundo, Lennox, Hawthorne and South Los Angeles have to live every day with the noise, air pollution, and traffic congestion caused by LAX operations. Therefore, let the record clearly reflect that I join once again with other leading individuals and organizations in support of Alternative 2, combined with Alternative 9, and in opposition to any other alternatives. Let the record also reflect that I urge the Department of City Planning to hold additional public hearings on this matter after the Board of Airport Commissioners has voted on the SPAS Draft EIR and designated a preferred alternative and before the Department of City Planning decides whether to accept the Board's preferred alternative.
01.09.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today in response to reports that the American International Group Inc. (AIG) is considering joining a lawsuit against the U.S. government claiming that the terms of the bailout were unfair: "It is simply outrageous that the board of the American International Group, Inc. (AIG) would even consider suing the federal government after America's taxpayers stepped up and bailed them out over their bad bets on mortgage-backed securities. This is even more troubling given that it comes on the heels of a public relations campaign, the purpose of which is supposed to ‘thank' the American taxpayer for saving the firm. I would urge the board to drop its consideration of the lawsuit, thank the American public for the $182 billion rescue package that prevented the company's collapse, and support the reforms in the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that ensure that systemically important financial institutions can no longer hold our economy hostage." ###
01.04.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-43), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee and one of the co-authors of the Biggert-Waters flood insurance reform law released the following statement today after passage of H.R. 41, a $9.7 billion flood insurance portion of the Sandy Disaster Relief Package: "I am pleased that we could work in a bipartisan fashion to pass H.R. 41 to temporarily increase the borrowing authority for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). I am so proud of the Members of Congress from both sides of the aisle who have been advocates fighting to get this bill brought up for a vote and passed, including House Republicans that criticized their own leadership. Hundreds of thousands of homeowners and small business owners are in desperate need of emergency aid in order to rebuild their homes and livelihood. It is unconscionable that this long overdue legislation was delayed and storm victims have been waiting for more than two months to receive assistance. They could not afford to wait any longer. "Superstorm Sandy is the costliest and deadliest storm to affect our nation since Hurricane Katrina. The storm caused 120 deaths and destroyed nearly 400,000 homes in New York and New Jersey. Thousands of residents of these states are still rebuilding their lives. Due to the huge losses from this storm—with over 140,000 flood insurance claims filed—the National Flood Insurance Program was poised to run out of funds to pay claims next week. "I have witnessed natural disasters first-hand in my home state of California, and assisted victims along the Gulf Coast impacted by Hurricane Katrina, ensuring that they were compensated and taken care of. As one of the co-authors of the Flood Insurance Reform Act, I am committed to ensuring that the flood insurance program has the resources and reforms that it needs to help our citizens when a storm like Sandy occurs. This legislation fixes that problem by increasing the NFIP's borrowing authority. "As a result, this bill will begin to assist some of the survivors of this horrible storm to rebuild their lives. Of course, this bill is not the comprehensive relief bill Sandy survivors need but it is a start." ###
01.03.2013	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters was sworn in as a Member of the 113th Congress. This marks the beginning of Congresswoman Waters' twelfth term in office. She will now represent California's 43 rd Congressional District (previously 35th) which includes the communities of Westchester, Playa Del Rey, Lennox, West Athens, West Carson, Harbor Gateway and El Camino Village, and the cities of Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood, Lawndale, Lomita and Torrance. Congresswoman Waters released the following statement: "I am honored and privileged to serve the people of California's 43rd District in the United States Congress. The next two years will present both challenges and opportunities. I am extremely excited I have been elected by my colleagues to serve as the Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee for the 113th Congress. In this new role, I will lead the Democratic Caucus in the oversight of all the financial services agencies of government, and I will focus on the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. "I will continue to work to eliminate fraud and abuse, and to support consumer protection in all areas of financial services: foreclosures, payday loans, misleading financial services products, and increasing housing opportunities. I will also remain committed to protecting and strengthening Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security, and working on economic development, job creation, small business support, quality education, affordable housing and health care services. "My constituents and particularly seniors and veterans will always be foremost in my public policy advocacy. I look forward to an exciting and productive 113th Congress that will bring a better quality of life for all in California and Americans nationwide." ###
01.03.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement today after the 112th Congress ended, and House GOP leaders failed to advance the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). "As we open the 113th Congress, I am thoroughly disappointed at the 112th Congress' inability to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The House Republican leadership has isolated victims of domestic and sexual violence, through its refusal to take up and pass the Senate's bipartisan and inclusive VAWA bill. While the Republicans continue to play political theater, millions of victims of violence in America will continue to have access to fewer resources from state and local governments, and domestic violence service providers." Since first signed into law in 1994, Congress has reauthorized VAWA twice on a bipartisan basis. Since its enactment, cases of domestic violence have fallen by 67 percent, and more than one million women have used the justice system to obtain protective orders against their batterers. "It is truly unconscionable that for the first time since 1994, Congress could not reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act with bipartisan support. The Senate version of VAWA, which passed within their chamber with 68 votes, would have extended VAWA's protections to reach an additional 30 million women." The Senate version of VAWA would have strengthened the federal government, states, law enforcement, and service provider's ability to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. It would have also extended domestic and sexual violence protections to Native-Americans and the LGBT communities. "As we begin a new session of Congress, we must continue to work vigorously with Congressional leadership and members of the House Judiciary committee to ensure that a strong and inclusive version of VAWA passes the House. The Violence Against Women Act must protect all victims of sexual and domestic violence, not just some. It's time to put the right-winged partisan politics aside and reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act." ###
01.02.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent the following letter today to the Federal Communications Commission urging the FCC to conduct its court ordered diversity impact study before proceeding with finalized rules that many public advocates suspect would relax the Commission current newspaper-broadcast cross-ownership ban. In 2011, the Third Circuit Court voided the FCC's media ownership rules and ordered the agency to study how its rules impact media diversity and ownership opportunities for women and minorities. As Congresswoman Waters wrote in her letter, "In striking the Commission's rule, and effectively reinstating the current ban on newspaper broadcast cross ownership, the Court ordered the agency to clarify how its proposed rule changes would impact media diversity and promote ownership opportunities for women and minorities. Since the Commission apparently has yet to conduct such a study, any effort to relax media ownership rules now would be in direct violation of the court's order." Further, the letter emphasizes the significance of diversity in national media by pointing out that "in previous FCC proceedings and the current ownership review, the Commission has affirmed the importance of diversity in national communications policy because the ‘widest possible dissemination of information from diverse and antagonistic sources is essential to the welfare of the public.'" You can find full text of the letter below. December 20, 2012 Julius Genachowski Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 12th Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Genachowski, I write to express my concerns with reports that the Commission intends to revive some form of the same lax media cross ownership rules that the Third Circuit Court invalidated in July 2011. In striking the Commission's rule, and effectively reinstating the current ban on newspaper broadcast cross ownership, the Court ordered the agency to clarify how its proposed rule changes would impact media diversity and promote ownership opportunities for women and minorities. Since the Commission apparently has yet to conduct such a study, any effort to relax media ownership rules now would be in direct violation of the court's order. I therefore urge the Commission to complete its long overdue diversity analyses before proceeding with any proposed changes to the current ban on newspaper-broadcast cross ownership. Section 257 of the Communications Act requires the FCC to submit triennial reports identifying and eliminating market entry barriers for entrepreneurs and other small businesses, including minority and women-owned businesses. Moreover, in previous FCC proceedings and the current ownership review, the Commission has affirmed the importance of diversity in national communications policy because the "widest possible dissemination of information from diverse and antagonistic sources is essential to the welfare of the public." Unfortunately, the Commission's lax media ownership rules and deregulatory policies have resulted in just the opposite: a heavily-consolidated industry with scarce ownership opportunities for women and minorities. Today, only five companies own the major broadcast networks; 90 percent of the top 50 cable networks produce three-quarters of all prime time programming, and control 70 percent of the prime time television market share. As these conglomerates have consumed large portions of the market, the opportunities for minority ownership have decreased. Since 1999, minority television ownership has decreased by 50 percent. In 2007, despite comprising 34 percent of the population, minorities owned just 3.2 percent of the U.S. television stations and 7 percent of the nation's full power radio stations. Minority radio ownership has declined by 9% just within the last three years. Minority wireless and cable system ownership levels are near zero. Finally, minority radio journalism employment has plummeted to less than 1 %, a level not seen since 1950. In Prometheus, the Third Circuit Court of Appeals excoriated the FCC's failure to enhance media diversity, concluding that the "FCC's own failure to collect or analyze data, and lay other necessary groundwork, may help to explain, but does not excuse, its failure to consider the proposals presented over many years. If the Commission requires more and better data to complete the necessary Adarand studies, it must get the data and conduct up-to-date studies as it began to do in 2000 before largely abandoning the endeavor." In the end, the Third Circuit noted its expectation that the Commission would finalize this work "in time for the completion of the 2010 Quadrennial Review." The court also noted Supreme Court statements recognizing that "the conclusion that there is a nexus between minority ownership and broadcasting diversity ... is corroborated by a host of empirical evidence" and that "both Congress and the Commission have concluded that the minority ownership programs are critical means of promoting broadcast diversity." The Commission's own recently-released ownership report provides some long-absent data, but the data falls short of satisfying the detailed analysis the Third Circuit ordered the Commission to conduct. According to troubling reports about the draft order on circulation at present, the Commission has not adequately addressed the likely impact of any proposed rule changes on diversity, as the Third Circuit has repeatedly required. I am concerned that the already low levels of ownership will be diminished even further by the proposed rule changes. Lastly, claims that the Internet has lessened the need for polices that promote media diversity have been grossly exaggerated and disproven by the Commission's own studies. The FCC's report, Less of the Same: The Lack of Local News on the Internet (FCC Media Ownership Study #6) (June 2011), found: "almost no evidence that the Internet has expanded the number of local news outlets. Most television markets have fewer than a dozen local news Websites. Those sites that do receive an audience are overwhelmingly newspaper and local television station Websites, rather than new and independent sources of local news .... Online local news markets resemble downsized versions of traditional media news markets, with the same news stories produced by the same newspapers and television stations." For all of these reasons, I respectfully request that the Commission not proceed with its proposed rule changes at this time, and that it conducts the court-ordered analysis on its recently released data before it acts on its media ownership rules. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress
01.02.2013	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement on Tuesday night's passage of Senate Amendment H.R. 8, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012: "I am pleased that we were able to reach an agreement that prevents tax hikes from rising on middle class families and ensures that the wealthy will pay their fair share to reduce the deficit. While this agreement is not perfect, it is a step in the right direction to protect families and grow the economy. "The bill includes significant steps that will prevent a typical family from seeing a $2,200 tax increase in 2013. I am glad that in addition to a permanent extension of the middle class tax cuts, it prevents two million people from losing UI benefits in January by extending emergency unemployment insurance benefits for one year. "The deal extends President Obama's expansions of the Child Tax Credit, Earned Income Tax Credit, and the new American Opportunity Tax Credit, which helps families pay for college and prevents income taxes from increasing by an average of $1,000 for 25 million working families and students. This agreement also ensures that we can continue to make investments in education, clean energy, and manufacturing to create jobs, strengthen the middle class, and grow the economy. "As a vocal advocate on behalf of struggling homeowners who has led my caucus on issues pertaining to loan modifications and mortgage servicing reforms, I was also pleased that the package included an extension of the Mortgage Debt Relief Act of 2007. Under this provision, up to $2 million of forgiven debt is eligible to be excluded from income through tax year 2013. "In the months ahead, there is still more work to be done as we discuss raising the debt ceiling and address defense and discretionary spending. I will remain committed to standing against any benefit cuts to programs Americans rely on including Social Security, Medicare and Medicare. I will assess the impact of the funding used to pay for the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR or "doc fix"). I will oppose any cuts to services for diabetes and other illnesses that disproportionately impacts those in underserved communities. "I will continue to work on behalf of my constituents and the most vulnerable Americans by taking common sense steps to reduce the deficit and keep our economy moving forward, but not at the expense of our children, seniors, and working families." ###
01.01.2013	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) released the following statement following the hospitalization of Nelson Mandela, the former President of South Africa: "I send my love, prayers and best wishes to Nelson Mandela as he continues to undergo a series of medical tests after he was admitted to the hospital this past weekend. Mandela is one of the world's greatest leaders of our time and has faced adversity on many levels. "Many have been inspired by Mandela's bravery and courage after he spent 27 years imprisoned in South Africa for his opposition to the racist system of apartheid. Once free, he was elected president of South Africa in the country's first free, multi-racial and democratic elections. "Nelson Mandela is a true symbol of hope and freedom, a champion of human rights and genuine hero to the world. I'm praying for his fast recovery and his continued presence as an inspiration, not only to South Africa, but to so many individuals and countries around the world." ###
12.31.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today opposing H.R. 6684, the Spending Reduction Act of 2012, which would undo certain aspects of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. While it is clear that the Republican Majority's H.R. 6684 is an attempt to generate votes for Speaker Boehner's "Plan B," when it comes to protecting the American middle class from another taxpayer bailout, H.R. 6684 gets a failing grade. First, the plan repeals our financial regulators' authority to wind down systemically important financial firms when their insolvency threatens the stability of the U.S. economy. This repeal of Wall Street Reform's Orderly Liquidation Authority produces illusory savings through budget gimmicks, and would remove a critical tool in our regulators' arsenal to mitigate systemic risk. All of us who witnessed Lehman Brothers' collapse in 2008, and the financial contagion that it sparked, understand that we must have a means by which to shut down financial firms in an orderly fashion. And what's worse than using accounting tricks to find these so-called "savings" is that the Republicans fail to replace the Orderly Liquidation Authority with any alternative. H.R. 6684 would also tie the hands of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), an agency we formed under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act to make sure financial institutions play by the rules when it comes to mortgage and student loans, credit cards, and payday lenders. The CFPB, like the agencies in our government that regulate banks for safety and soundness, is independently funded to ensure that consumer protection is never subject to the pressures of political influence. H.R. 6684 would eliminate that independent funding and instead make the Bureau the only banking regulator subject to the appropriations process. This funding gimmick is just a backdoor way to undermine a new and desperately-needed agency that will prevent a return of the same exotic products that caused the 2008 financial crisis. The plan likewise eliminates the Office of Financial Research (OFR), an agency tasked with collecting information on the health of our financial markets and conducting research on financial stability issues. Like a storm warning center, OFR will gather information about emerging threats to our financial system and share that information with other regulators to help us intervene before a crisis. Finally, H.R. 6684 ends the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP). I have not been shy in pointing out the need for improvements to HAMP, but my Republican colleagues, through years of the foreclosure crisis, have refused to come up with any alternative to keep families in their homes. Instead, they would like mortgage servicers to continue business as usual, unfettered by any rules and requirements, so that the "market can bottom-out." After years of robo-signing and other scandals, the Republicans' failure to address the abuses in the mortgage servicing industry, and their attempts to repeal programs that can help vulnerable families, are simply unconscionable. It is unfortunate that at end of another session of Congress, the Republicans are again playing ‘Russian Roulette' with the U.S. economy when they should be working in bipartisan manner with House Democrats to avert the fiscal cliff. ###
12.17.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) led a letter that was signed by 43 House Democrats that is being sent to the Chair of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTP) today to express support for the task force's draft recommendation, which proposes that all adolescents and adults ages 15 to 65, as well as younger adolescents and older adults who are at increased risk and all pregnant women, should be screened for HIV infection: As Congresswoman Waters wrote in her letter, "The draft recommendation is a long overdue improvement over the previous "C" grade and recommendation that HIV screening be provided only to individuals in high risk groups. Many of those who are infected with HIV do not fall into high risk categories or may not realize that they are at risk for HIV. Further, the letter states, "We strongly urge the USPSTF to confirm its support for HIV screening by finalizing the "A" grade draft recommendation as soon as possible." Full text of the letter to Dr. Virginia Moyer, Chair of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force is below. Dr. Virginia Moyer, M.D, M.P.H Chair U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) 540 Gaither Road Rockville, MD 20850 Dear Dr. Moyer: As Members of Congress who are concerned about the impact of HIV/AIDS, we write to express our strong support for the draft recommendation of the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) on screening for HIV. We commend the draft recommendation, which gives HIV screening an "A" grade and recommends that all adolescents and adults ages 15 to 65, as well as younger adolescents and older adults who are at increased risk and all pregnant women, should be screened for HIV infection. The proposed changes in recommendation and grade promise to dramatically expand screening for HIV. There are over 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and about one in five of them do not know they are infected. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there are approximately 50,000 new HIV infections every year, and more than 17,000 people with AIDS died in 2009. HIV screening allows HIV-positive individuals to learn of their status and begin medical treatment to prolong their lives and maintain their health and productivity. Recent scientific research also proves that HIV-positive individuals are less likely to transmit the virus to other persons if they have a suppressed viral load as a result of treatment. Thus, HIV screening helps reduce new HIV infections, increase access to treatment for those who are infected, and improve public health overall. The draft recommendation is a long overdue improvement over the previous "C" grade and recommendation that HIV screening be provided only to individuals in high risk groups. Many of those who are infected with HIV do not fall into high risk categories or may not realize that they are at risk for HIV. About 27% of new infections involve heterosexual transmission, and women account for 23% of new infections. People of color have been impacted severely, with African Americans accounting for 44% of new infections and Hispanics/Latinos accounting for 20%. Approximately 68% of new infections are among people of color. The draft recommendation brings the USPSTF into closer alignment with the CDC, which recommends routine voluntary HIV screening in health care settings for patients ages 13 to 64, regardless of risk. The draft recommendation is also consistent with the National HIV/AIDS Strategy, which was released by the White House in July of 2010 and which seeks to increase the percentage of people living with HIV who know their status. The "A" grade is especially critical as most private health insurers are required to cover all grade A and B services without cost-sharing under the Affordable Care Act. Health insurance coverage of HIV screening without cost-sharing could significantly increase the number of people who actually obtain HIV tests. Consequently, it could significantly increase the percentage of people living with HIV who know their status and are receiving appropriate care and treatment. We strongly urge the USPSTF to confirm its support for HIV screening by finalizing the "A" grade draft recommendation as soon as possible. These changes in the USPSTF's recommendation and grade can move us closer to creating an AIDS free generation. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Barbara Lee Jim McDermott Lucille Roybal-Allard Donna Christensen Madeleine Z. Bordallo Raúl M. Grijalva André Carson Yvette D. Clarke Hansen Clarke Wm. Lacy Clay Emanuel Cleaver II John Conyers Elijah E. Cummings Danny K. Davis Ted Deutch Eliot L. Engel Janice Hahn Alcee L. Hastings Maurice D. Hinchey Mike Honda Sheila Jackson Lee Hank Johnson Eleanor Holmes Norton John Olver Mike Quigley Charles Rangel Laura Richardson Bobby Rush Jan Schakowsky Adam B. Schiff Edolphus Towns Melvin Watt Lynn Woolsey Robert A. Brady David N. Cicilline John Lewis Jared Polis Jerrold Nadler Gwen Moore Betty McCollum Steve Cohen Gary Peters Rush Holt ###
12.04.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) was unanimously elected Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee today by the House Democratic Caucus. Following the election, Congresswoman Waters released the following statement: "I am deeply humbled to be elected as Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Committee by my Democratic colleagues today. I want to foremost extend my sincere gratitude and appreciation to Congressman Barney Frank for both his friendship and outstanding service to the Committee, particularly for his steadfast leadership during the 2008 financial crisis – the most perilous moment our economy has faced since the Great Depression. The last few years have been very turbulent for our financial system, and Congressman Frank should be commended for leading us out of the crisis, and assuring the passage of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which rightfully bears his name. "I look forward to working with my colleagues to protect, defend and implement the important provisions of Dodd-Frank, which will continue to strengthen our financial system. I understand that regulatory certainty is an important aspect of growing our economy, and remain committed to ensuring clear and transparent regulation which creates the space for innovation, safety and soundness. "I am grateful for the opportunity over the next Congress to work on the key issues facing our financial system. Housing finance reform, in particular, will be crucial to ensuring the long-term success and stability of our economy. I believe we need a financial system that facilitates economic opportunity and wealth creation for all, and I stand ready to work with my colleagues towards that goal. "We have a number of challenges ahead of us on the Committee, and I welcome the chance to work with Chairman Hensarling to reconcile our visions for the future." ###
11.30.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement in recognition of World AIDS Day today: "On World AIDS Day, we unite in solidarity worldwide in the fight against HIV/AIDS. We show support for people living with the disease and commemorate those who have died. We stand together to raise awareness about the epidemic so we can prevent further spread of the virus and give hope to the 33.4 million people internationally living with HIV/AIDS. "In the United States alone, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates that over one million people are HIV positive, and one in five of those infected are unaware of it. We must make a determined effort to tackle the devastating spread of HIV/AIDS among our youth and minority communities. According to a new report released this week by the CDC, young people between the ages of 13 and 24 represent more than a quarter of new HIV infections each year. And HIV/AIDS is one of the leading causes of death for both African-Americans and Hispanics. "Working with my colleagues in the House and Senate, I have been a leading proponent of legislation to increase funding and research to combat HIV/AIDS and to help those affected by the disease. I have authored legislation and supported policies that fight HIV/AIDS, including encouraging involvement by clinicians and nurses; promoting routine HIV testing; protecting minorities and other vulnerable populations; and preserving and expanding treatment services for low-income and uninsured Americans living with HIV/AIDS. "Each year, we are all a bit more encouraged by research advances that will someday lead to a cure, but we are nowhere near the finish line we seek in dominating this devastating illness. We must address HIV/AIDS directly by promoting routine HIV testing and prevention and by making treatment for the infected more accessible and more affordable. "In the spirit of World AIDS Day, while we remember those who have succumbed to the disease, let us not forget the struggle that still remains before us. Let's recommit ourselves to caring for individuals living with HIV/AIDS and rededicate ourselves to finding a cure." ###
11.21.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters helped to distribute Thanksgiving turkeys to non-profit organizations based in California's 35th Congressional District on Tuesday, Nov. 20 at the Behavioral Health Services' Pacifica House in Hawthorne. The turkey giveaway was made possible by the Golden State Water Company, as part of the company's annual "Operation Gobble" program, which has been donating the holiday staple to organizations that service the homeless, seniors, children, military veterans and needy families throughout California since 1990. "I have worked with Golden State for many years to ensure that community-based organizations in my district, particularly those hard hit by the recession are able to share the holiday spirit," said Congresswoman Waters. "It is important that we remember the less fortunate during the holiday season and are mindful of their struggles. Let us extend a helping hand and give in the spirit of compassion and humanity." Congresswoman Waters also participated in the E.J. Jackson Foundation's 30th Annual Jackson Limousine Service Turkey Dinner Giveaway on Tuesday, Nov. 20, which provided holiday cheer to thousands of Angelenos. ###
11.16.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement in response to the Federal Housing Administration's annual financial status report issued to Congress today: "While I remain concerned about the health of the Federal Housing Administration's (FHA) Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund (MMIF), I think it is important to balance these concerns with a recognition of FHA's crucial role in our housing finance system. At a time when the private market constricted, FHA stepped up, providing crucial liquidity and access to the mortgage market. All told, over the course of its 78-year history, FHA has helped millions of Americans achieve homeownership, with a particular focus on first-time and minority homebuyers. "I believe that Congress should continue to closely monitor FHA's health, and while it's clear that the MMIF is in a vulnerable position, I also think that we should not act precipitously to limit loan availability, especially as the housing recovery remains fragile. "Over the past three years, FHA has taken corrective action to address prior problems, including increases to premiums, ending the practice of seller-funded down payment assistance, and lender enforcement efforts. In fact, I am pleased that the report confirms what many of us believed – that this Administration's actions beginning in 2009 have resulted in a book of business that is expected to yield a net positive return and help offset the anticipated losses resulting from loans insured between 2007 and 2009. "I intend to work with the Administration, and my colleagues in Congress, to continue the improvement in the quality of loans insured by FHA that we've seen in the last few years, and I would also urge my colleagues in the Senate to take up the bipartisan FHA reform bill the House has passed over the last two Congressional sessions. I hope that we can continue a discussion of FHA during a wider housing finance reform debate during the next Congress." ###
11.13.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement expressing her gratitude for the service and sacrifice of our veterans, military troops, and their families in honor of Veterans Day: "Today, our country will pause to reflect and remember the millions of brave men and women in uniform who have answered the call to serve in our nation's military, and who have proudly served and protected our country on the frontlines.. "We must not forget the patriotic sacrifices of those who have served in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world. President Obama kept his commitment to end the war in Iraq in a responsible way and our soldiers who were deployed there have returned home. We are working toward the same goal in Afghanistan with our troops slated to come home in 2014. "The military pledges to leave no soldier behind on the battlefield, therefore, we shall all pledge to leave no veteran behind upon their return home. We must make sure that our veterans have access to the wide range of services and resources available to help them including health care, disability benefits, housing, higher education and training, and assistance to transition back into society and the civilian workforce. "Our service men and women risk their lives every day to protect our country and it's our duty as leaders in Washington to ensure that we uphold our promises to our veterans. In the 112th Congress, I introduced the Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act, which would protect our student veterans from the predatory practices that some for-profit institutions use to obtain higher profits and to appease investors. "I also joined my colleagues in introducing the Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act, legislation that would eliminate a five-year window to seek mental health treatment, allowing veterans who served in combat from all military operations to seek treatment for service related mental illnesses, regardless of when their conditions manifest themselves. And I will continue to work with my colleagues in Congress to uphold our commitment to our veterans. "Let us dedicate ourselves to providing all of our veterans, service members, and military families around the world who continue to serve our country the necessary support and assistance that they have earned and deserve." ###
10.30.2012	In honor of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement today: "As National Breast Cancer Awareness Month comes to an end, I express my support for those engaged in the ongoing fight against the most common cancer among women in our country. Breast cancer is a disease that knows no boundaries and doesn't discriminate. It can strike anyone, women and men, regardless of age, race or economic background. "Statistics show that one out of every eight women born today will be diagnosed with breast cancer over the course of her life. More than 225,000 women in the U.S. will be found to have invasive breast cancer this year alone, and an estimated 40,000 will die from the disease. "I have been a longtime advocate and supporter of breast cancer awareness, education and research. As a California assemblywoman in 1978, I introduced AB 3548, legislation requiring insurance companies to cover reconstructive surgery or prosthetic devices for women who have undergone mastectomies. It passed both chambers of the California Legislature and was signed into law. In the House of Representatives, I introduced the Cancer Testing, Education, Screening and Treatment Act, known as the Cancer TEST Act (H.R. 1030), in the 110th Congress to promote cancer screening. H.R. 1030 would provide grants for cancer screening, counseling, treatment and prevention programs for minorities and underserved communities. It would also emphasize early detection and provide comprehensive treatment for cancer in its earliest stages. "I urge all women to make sure you are aware of breast cancer risk factors, doing monthly breast self-exams, and getting regular mammograms to detect breast cancer in its earliest and most treatable stages. This is why the Affordable Care Act passed by Congress and then signed into law by President Obama in 2010 is so important. Because of the women's preventive provisions of the health care reform law, most private health insurance plans and Medicare now cover women's preventive health care services – including annual well-women visits and lifesaving breast cancer screenings–with no co-pays or other out-of-pocket expenses. "This means that women can get the care they need to detect and prevent breast cancer before it spreads or becomes deadly, without having concerns about how they'll pay for these services. Insurers will also no longer be able to deny health care coverage because of a "pre-existing condition" such as breast cancer. "We should take the time and focus on prevention and early detection for breast cancer not only in October, but every month of the year. Together, we can all help do our part in reducing the incidence of breast cancer by speaking with family members, friends, and loved ones about risk factors, education and prevention." ###
10.26.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement today commemorating National Domestic Violence Awareness Month, which is recognized nationally each year in October: "National Domestic Violence Awareness Month serves as an opportunity for us to rededicate ourselves to ensuring that every victim of domestic violence is safe and offenders are held accountable for their actions. The statistics relating to domestic violence in our country are staggering: One in four women will experience domestic violence in her lifetime and approximately 40 percent of California women experience partner initiated physical violence in their lifetimes. "Each year across the nation, thousands of domestic violence victims no longer have to live in fear because of important victim protections under the Violence Against Women Act known as VAWA. Since its enactment in 1994, VAWA has had a long history of uniting lawmakers through the common purpose of protecting victims of domestic violence. Now, House Republicans are determined to weaken VAWA. In May, I opposed H.R. 4970, the House Republican alternative to the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization bill. The bill severely undermined vital protections available to certain victims of violence and placed those victims in danger of continued abuse. Additionally, the Republican alternative bill threatened to dismantle the progress VAWA has made by placing domestic violence victims from the LGBT, immigrant, and tribal communities in harm's way. "We need to make sure that VAWA protects all victims and doesn't exclude provisions that have been included in VAWA by both Republicans and Democrats over the past 18 years. It's time to stop putting victims of domestic violence lives at risk and reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act. "We should all commit ourselves to the millions of victims, families and advocates across the nation, and continue to make efforts to ensure that no woman, man or child has to live with the fear of mental and or physical abuse." ###
10.15.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-35) joined Inglewood's Mayor James Butts, the Inglewood City Council and Jeffrey Rudolph, CEO of the California Science Center for a viewing event of the space shuttle Endeavour. The shuttle arrived at the Forum in Inglewood on its second day of travel to its final destination at the California Science Center. "This is a historic day in Inglewood and I am extremely proud to welcome the Endeavour to its new home in southern California. Since the passage of the National Aeronautics and Space Act, which created NASA in 1958, the United States federal government has played a pivotal role in the creation, funding, research, and development of both national and international space missions and programs. "In an effort to continue our nation's commitment to space exploration and research, President Obama signed into law the NASA Authorization Act of 2010. This bill provides funding for NASA and its programs through fiscal year 2013. My colleagues in Congress and I passed this bill to ensure that a total of $58 billion in funding will go towards continuing NASA's overall growth in science, aeronautics and space technology." Since its initial launch in May of 1992, the space shuttle Endeavour has embarked on 25 historic missions, traveled more than 122 million miles and spent 299 days in space before making its final 12-mile journey.
10.10.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement in response to the approval of the federal TIFIA loan to build the Crenshaw/LAX line: "I am pleased to see the approval of the $545.9 million Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) loan that will enable the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority to move forward on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor project. "I have been a longtime advocate for improving our public transportation system as I believe any world class city must have mass transit that enables its residents to get to work and recreation easily. The Crenshaw/LAX Metro line is important to the business community and the quality of life for this area, and will also allow us to ease traffic and pollution in the long term." "The Crenshaw/LAX line is a much anticipated addition to our city's transit system and will emerge as an important source of desperately needed jobs for people who live close to the route of the project. I expect the city of Los Angeles and Metro to make efforts to include local labor in their hiring practices." "I also strongly believe that this project should include stations serving the communities of Leimert Park and Westchester. I have been working in Washington to maximize opportunities for federal funding for public transportation projects and will continue to work to identify additional sources of funding to finance those additional two stations." ###
10.10.2012	The Gardena City Council honored Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) yesterday at its bi-weekly city council meeting in Gardena. Gardena's Mayor Paul Tanaka and city council members presented Congresswoman Waters with a certificate of appreciation recognizing her work and legislative efforts on behalf of the city. "Congresswoman Waters has been our voice in Washington, and a very strong one at that," said Mayor Tanaka. "We have received federal funds for environmental clean-up, transportation, law enforcement and other projects totaling nearly $76 million because of the congresswoman's efforts. Rep. Waters is a frequent visitor to Gardena, participating in countless community education forums and ceremonial events." "I am proud to represent the city of Gardena, and I'm truly humbled to receive this recognition from Mayor Tanaka, Mayor Pro Tem Ronald Ikejiri and City Council members Tasha Cerda, Rachel Johnson and Dan Medina," Congresswoman Waters said. "I am very pleased that the leadership of Gardena, guided by Mayor Tanaka works so well together for the good of its citizens. I will continue to fight in Washington on behalf of Gardena, and direct federal resources here to help address and improve Gardena's most pressing needs." Gardena is located in the South Bay region of southwest Los Angeles County – that makes up the southern portion of Congresswoman Waters 35th Congressional District. ###
10.09.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) released the following statement today on the passing of Mervyn Dymally: "The people of California and this entire country have lost a good and faithful servant with the passing of Mervyn Dymally. The former lieutenant governor, state legislator and congressman dedicated his life to public service and advocating for social justice in the state of California, the nation and internationally. "In the House of Representatives, he was a true leader and was always willing to share a word of wisdom. Dymally was devoted to helping others, particularly his consistent work on human rights in Africa and the Caribbean. "I extend my heartfelt condolences to his wife, Alice and the entire Dymally family at this time. He was a dear colleague, mentor and friend, and will be sorely missed."
10.03.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) released the following statement in response to the passing of Len Canty, Chairman of the Black Economic Council (BEC): "I was deeply saddened to learn of the death of Len Canty, a steadfast advocate for the African-American community. As chairman of the Black Economic Council (BEC), Len did not rely on a bevy of lobbyists and lawyers. Regardless of the issue, Len would personally make frequent trips to Washington, armed with his knowledge, experience and an unwavering commitment to diversity, and the economic prosperity of his community. "From the financial services industry, to Silicon Valley, to holding federal agencies accountable for their regulatory responsibilities, Len fought for access and opportunity on behalf of minority and women owned enterprises in California and across the country. "Len and his coalition worked closely with my office over the years, and I can say that during these challenging economic times, he was one of our community's consistent and stalwart champions. I will cherish the opportunity I had to know and work with him, and I am confident that the Black Economic Council will continue his legacy of service and personal sacrifice." ###
10.01.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters today released the following statement regarding the decision by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to vacate a rule by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission related to position limits: "I'm very disappointed that the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia today threw out a rulemaking by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) aimed at limiting speculative trading in oil and other commodities. The CFTC's rules are critical to protecting American consumers from increasing fuel prices, which are partly the result of excessive speculation. "Once again, special interests were able to delay and derail a key provision in Wall Street Reform that would protect the public. I urge the CFTC to persist on a position limits rulemaking after conducting the further analysis recommended by the court." ###
09.24.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) was honored at a reception hosted by the Act Against AIDS Leadership Initiative (AAALI), for her advocacy in support of HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment. AAALI is a partnership among several of the nation's leading civil rights and social justice organizations. The reception was entitled, "Honoring Black Leadership in the Fight Against HIV/AIDS." The Congresswoman made the following statement at the reception: "I am delighted to join you today. I deeply appreciate being honored by the Act Against AIDS Leadership Initiative, and I congratulate all of the civil rights and social justice organizations that are involved in this initiative. "Federal policies and programs have vastly improved our ability to prevent, diagnosis and treat HIV/AIDS since the epidemic began 31 years ago. Research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has allowed people living with HIV/AIDS to live longer and more productive lives. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) promotes awareness and testing to reduce the spread of HIV and identify those who are infected. Ryan White and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) have expanded access to treatment for people living with HIV/AIDS who would otherwise not be able to afford it. The National HIV/AIDS Strategy provides a roadmap to coordinate efforts among federal agencies to reduce HIV infections, increase access to care and treatment, and reduce HIV-related health disparities. "But we know we must keep moving forward. That is why I am working to expand congressional support for forward-looking HIV/AIDS policies. I established the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998 when I was chair of the Congressional Black Caucus. And every year, I circulate letters in support of funding for the initiative. The most recent letter was signed by 59 Members of Congress. Because of our efforts, the Minority AIDS Initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. That was despite the prevailing atmosphere of fiscal austerity. I reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in Federal prisons. This bill has 36 cosponsors. I reintroduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act, a bill to require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests as preventive health screenings without imposing co-payments or deductibles. This bill has 40 cosponsors. "The passage of the Affordable Care Act, often called "Obamacare," has begun the process of reforming our nation's health system so that all Americans will have access to the health care they need. Because of the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies cannot drop you if you test positive for HIV. They cannot place lifetime limits on your coverage and, beginning in 2014, they will not be able to deny you coverage because of a pre-existing condition like AIDS. The Affordable Care Act also expands Medicaid to cover all low-income Americans, including many people living with HIV/AIDS who currently lack coverage. "Unfortunately, the progress we have made is in grave danger of being reversed. Under the leadership of the Republican Vice-Presidential Candidate, Congressman Paul Ryan, the Republicans in the House of Representatives have proposed drastic cuts in funding for critical health programs like Ryan White, ADAP, NIH research, and CDC prevention efforts. "The Ryan budget, which was passed in the House of Representatives in March, cuts all non-defense discretionary spending 8.5% below the fiscal year 2012 level. A cut of this magnitude would devastate HIV/AIDS research, prevention and treatment. The Ryan budget also cuts Medicaid by more than $800 billion over the next ten years and turns the program into a block grant for states. That would leave millions of low-income Americans who depend on Medicaid without access to basic health care. "The Republicans have been trying to undermine the Affordable Care Act ever since it was signed into law. They have voted over 30 times in the House of Representatives to repeal the Affordable Care Act. They tried unsuccessfully to have the entire law declared unconstitutional, and they are trying to prevent the law's implementation by defunding it. This would leave countless Americans with pre-existing conditions like AIDS unable to obtain health insurance. Moreover, following the decision of the Supreme Court to make Medicaid expansion optional, several Republican governors have announced their states would rather leave low-income Americans without access to health care than participate in Medicaid expansion. "We need to tell the Republicans that the Ryan budget is simply unacceptable. And we need to tell everyone in Congress not to balance the budget on the backs of people living with HIV/AIDS. "We must we must rededicate ourselves to the challenges ahead. We must confront Members of Congress and tell them to support HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment because no one should have to die of this preventable and treatable disease! We must demand Medicaid expansion in every state so that all low-income Americans have access to health care. We must demand full implementation of the Affordable Care Act so that no one will ever be denied health insurance because of a positive test for HIV. We must demand full funding of domestic and international HIV/AIDS research, prevention, care, and treatment! And we must never give up until we completely eradicate this disease!" ###
09.24.2012	Yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent a bipartisan letter to Senator Harry Reid, the Majority Leader of the U.S. Senate, urging him to bring H.R. 2800, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act, to a vote before the full Senate this year. H.R. 2800 was introduced by Rep. Waters, reported favorably by the Judiciary Committee, and passed by the House of Representatives on September 11, 2012, without opposition by a voice vote. The Congresswoman's letter was signed by Rep. Christopher H. Smith, Co-Chair, Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease (R-NJ); Rep. Edward J. Markey, Co-Chair, Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease (D-MA); Rep. John Conyers, Ranking Member, House Judiciary Committee (D-MI); and Rep. Robert C. Scott, Ranking Member, Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security (D-VA). An identical letter was sent to Republican Leader Mitch McConnell, and copies were sent to Senator Patrick Leahy, the Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Senator Chuck Grassley, the Ranking Member of the Senate Judiciary Committee. The text of the letter follows: "We write to urge you to bring H.R. 2800, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization Act, to a vote before the full Senate this year. This bipartisan bill reauthorizes a small but effective program that assists local law enforcement and protects vulnerable people with Alzheimer's disease. H.R. 2800 has been endorsed by both the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America and passed the House last week by a voice vote. "Alzheimer's disease currently affects an estimated 5.3 million Americans, and that number will multiply in the coming decades as our population ages. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that 7.7 million Americans will have Alzheimer's by the year 2030, and 11 to 16 million Americans will have the disease by the year 2050. "One great risk for Alzheimer's patients is wandering away from home. According to the Alzheimer's Association, more than 60% of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on vulnerable seniors. Up to 50% of Alzheimer's patients who wander will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. Wanderers often cannot remember who they are or where they live and cannot assist law enforcement officials and other first responders who try to help them. "The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program is a Department of Justice program that provides competitive grants to nonprofit organizations to assist in paying for the costs of planning, designing, establishing, and operating programs to protect and locate missing patients with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. These grants help local communities and public safety agencies quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander or are missing and reunite them with their families. "The program was originally authorized in 1996, but it has been operating under an expired authorization since 1998. H.R. 2800 reauthorizes the program and authorizes $1 million per year in appropriations for fiscal years 2013 through 2017. This authorization level will allow the program to continue to operate at the FY 2012 funding level for the next five years. This small investment could easily result in millions more in savings for the federal government by allowing more Alzheimer's patients to remain at home with their families, thereby reducing nursing home utilization and saving Medicare and Medicaid expenses. "This program saves law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns. It also reduces unintentional injuries and deaths among Alzheimer's patients, brings peace of mind to their families, and thus allows more Alzheimer's patients to remain at home with people who love them. We hope you will support the passage of this bill during the remaining days of the 112th Congress." ###
09.12.2012	Yesterday, in an award ceremony on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) presented the "Angels in Adoption" award to Debra Reid, the Founder and Executive Director of the Jonathan Reid Family Rights Coalition, an organization that provides assistance to families to help them navigate the juvenile dependency courts and the foster care system in Los Angeles County. The Angels in Adoption program is sponsored by the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute and provides Members of Congress an opportunity to recognize an individual or organization from their community that has made a difference in the lives of children and families involved in foster care and adoption. "I chose to honor Debra Reid as an Angel in Adoption because she has become a champion for children in foster care," said Congresswoman Waters. "When families become involved in dependency court, they can get information and assistance from the Jonathan Reid Family Rights Coalition, and when they experience an injustice in the foster care system, they can find a voice and an advocate in Debra Reid." Debra Reid lost her nine-year-old son, Jonathan, after he was wrongfully removed from her and placed in foster care in 1997. Jonathan died of asthma complications within six weeks of being taken away from his mother. After his death, it was revealed that social workers had contributed to his death by providing inaccurate information about his medical condition. "Debra Reid turned her tragedy into a fight for justice for parents like herself who have been mistreated by the foster care system," said Congresswoman Waters. "Debra, I have told you this before, but I want to tell you again. I admire you for becoming a champion for children in foster care." Congresswoman Waters told Ms. Reid as she presented the award to her. "The tragedy you had to endure that led you on this path would have destroyed anyone else. Losing a child is the worst thing that can happen to anyone. You turned that tragedy into a fight for justice for children like Jonathan and parents like yourself who have been mistreated by the system." ###
09.12.2012	Yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters held a bipartisan panel discussion on the nation's ongoing housing crisis and whether the use of eminent domain to seize underwater mortgages is a feasible alternative to provide struggling homeowners with relief. The event was the third in a series of panels Rep. Waters launched this summer to discuss current topics in financial regulation. To open the panel discussion, Rep. Waters delivered the following remarks: "Good Afternoon. As the Ranking Member on the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Financial Services Subcommittee, I am very pleased to welcome all of you to the third in a series of nonpartisan panel briefings I've organized to discuss emerging issues in financial regulation. While previous panels have focused on certain aspects of the Dodd-Frank Act, I wanted to focus today's discussion on the ongoing housing crisis and whether the use of eminent domain to seize underwater mortgages is a feasible alternative to assist struggling homeowners. "In the previous Congress, I served as Chairwoman on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. And it was through that Subcommittee that I convened countless hearings and roundtable discussions all in efforts to understand the scope of the housing crisis and its economic impact on communities across the country. "I've worked on legislation in Congress and advised the Obama Administration in developing targeted strategies to assist homeowners. Legislatively, I was able to pass an expansion of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) – a grant program for states and local governments to buy and revitalize abandoned and foreclosed properties. And the Administration also included within its mortgage settlement recommendations I've long advocated for to improve servicing standards. However, despite these efforts and the Administration's housing programs, foreclosures persist and we must continue our work to refine inadequate programs and build on the success of those strategies that have shown some level of success. "Given that opportunities for a national, broad-based principal reduction program appear to be stalled, and Acting Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Edward Demarco has made clear his universal rejection of principal reduction as a federal strategy to recover the housing market, local jurisdictions such as San Bernardino, California and Chicago, Illinois are exploring alternatives that would allow them to seize and restructure underwater mortgages for the purpose of keeping families in their homes. "While many observers see this development as the clear result of inadequate federal action, opponents of the plan cite legal and constitutional concerns with the proposals. Industry opponents have further indicated that if jurisdictions do adopt similar plans, that the impact on housing finance and lending would be harmful to consumers. "As the lead co-author with Rep. Sensenbrenner on H.R. 1433, "the Private Property Rights Protection Act" that passed the House with bipartisan support earlier this year, I stood firm in my opposition to the Supreme Court's Kelo decision which I believed lowered the standard for ‘public use' government takings. "In June 2005, the Supreme Court issued a 5-4 decision in Kelo v. City of New London in which it held that "economic development" can be a "public use" under the Fifth Amendment's Takings Clause, justifying the government's taking of private property. Following the decision, many charged that Kelo gave governments a blank check to redistribute land from the poor and middle class to the wealthy. "In my experience, few policies have done more to dismantle communities than eminent domain. However, where I have typically opposed eminent domain for its impact on lawful homeowners, I am intrigued by the proposals today because their main objective is to reduce principal so that people can stay in their homes. However, these proposals do raise a lot of questions and concerns that I anticipate our panel will address today. "While I have not endorsed eminent domain's use for principal reduction, I believe today's forum will afford us all an opportunity to understand how such a proposal could work, the legal questions surrounding this issue, and who would be impacted. Today's discussion is especially relevant since just last week FHFA concluded its comment period for input concerning the use of eminent domain for underwater mortgage refinancing. And considering the wide range of debate and opinions on the proposal, I know our panel of experts will have a lot to discuss. "Prior to today's discussion, I did attend San Bernardino's public meeting on their eminent domain's proposal, and I do hope that our audience today will be just as engaged and ask our panel of experts substantive questions. "Once again, my main objective in organizing this panel series was to create a forum where experts and industry insiders with opposing viewpoints could discuss financial services in an interactive setting that may not always be achieved in Congressional hearings. Today's panel discussion is not intended to advance one particular point of view, but is intended to provide Members and staff with educational enrichment opportunities on an ongoing basis. "I look forward to today's discussion, and I do thank each of you for your participation and attendance." ### The Honorable Maxine Waters (CA-35) presents FINANCIAL SERVICES PANEL SERIES Topic: The Housing Crisis and Policy Solutions: Should Eminent Domain Be Used to Save Underwater Homeowners? When: Tuesday – September 11, 2012 Time: 4:00 p.m. Where: Rayburn 2226 Moderator: Erik Schatzker – Anchor and Editor-at-Large, Bloomberg Television Panelists: Tom Deutsch – Executive Director, American Securitization Forum, Inc. Laurie Goodman – Senior Managing Director, Amherst Securities Julia Gordon – Director of Housing Finance and Policy, Center for American Progress Robert Hockett – Professor, Cornell Law School Tim Cameron – Managing Director, Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Richard A. Dorfman – Managing Director, Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Nela Richardson -- Senior Economic Analyst, Bloomberg Government
09.12.2012	Today, on Capitol Hill, the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 2800, a bill introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. H.R. 2800 passed the House without opposition on a voice vote and now awaits consideration in the U.S. Senate. "I am proud of my colleagues in the House for voting to provide vital assistance to vulnerable Alzheimer's patients and their families by reauthorizing the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. I urge the Senate to pass this bill as soon as possible and send it to the President's desk." said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Alzheimer's Association, Alzheimer's disease currently affects over 5 million Americans, and more than 60% are likely to wander away from home. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on vulnerable seniors. Wanderers often cannot remember who they are or where they live and cannot assist law enforcement officials and other first responders who try to help them. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program is a Department of Justice program that provides grants to nonprofit organizations to operate programs to help local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander and reunite them with their families. As passed by the House, H.R. 2800 reauthorizes the program for five years and authorizes $1 million per year for grants. "This program saves law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns. It also reduces injuries and deaths among Alzheimer's patients, brings peace of mind to their families, and thus allows more Alzheimer's patients to remain at home with people who love them," said Congresswoman Waters. H.R. 2800 is cosponsored by 18 Members of Congress, including Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ) and Congressman Edward J. Markey (D-MA), the Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease. The bill is also supported by both the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America. ### Click here to see Congresswoman Waters' speak on the House floor about this bill.
08.01.2012	Today, on Capitol Hill, the House Judiciary Committee passed H.R. 2800, a bill introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to reauthorize the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. H.R. 2800 passed the Committee without opposition on a voice vote and now awaits consideration on the House floor. "I am pleased that the House Judiciary Committee voted to provide vital assistance to vulnerable Alzheimer's patients and their families by reauthorizing the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. I urge House leadership to bring this bill to the House floor as soon as possible." said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Alzheimer's Association, Alzheimer's disease currently affects over 5 million Americans, and more than 60% are likely to wander away from home. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on vulnerable seniors. Wanderers often cannot remember who they are or where they live and cannot assist law enforcement officials and other first responders who try to help them. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program is a Department of Justice program that provides grants to nonprofit organizations to operate programs to help local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander and reunite them with their families. As passed by the Judiciary Committee, H.R. 2800 reauthorizes the program for five years and authorizes $1 million per year for grants. "This program saves law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns. It also reduces injuries and deaths among Alzheimer's patients, brings peace of mind to their families, and thus allows more Alzheimer's patients to remain at home with people who love them," said Congresswoman Waters. H.R. 2800 is cosponsored by 18 Members of Congress, including Congressman Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ) and Congressman Edward J. Markey (D-MA), the Co-Chairs of the Bipartisan Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease. The bill is also supported by both the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America. ###
07.30.2012	Last night, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) discussed congressional support for HIV/AIDS policies and programs during a panel entitled, "Achieving the Goals of the U.S. National HIV/AIDS Strategy: A Community Perspective," at the 2012 International AIDS Conference. The Congresswoman's remarks as prepared for delivery follow: "The U.S. National HIV/AIDS Strategy is based on three clear goals: 1) reducing the number of HIV infections, 2) increasing access to care and treatment for people living with HIV/AIDS, and 3) reducing HIV-related health disparities. It is a comprehensive strategy that requires coordinated efforts by federal agencies and robust funding from Congress. AIDS activists from other countries should consider our strategy as a model for the development or enhancement of their own national strategies. "The U.S. National HIV/AIDS Strategy was developed in response to the demands of dedicated, persistent AIDS activists from all around this country, many of whom are in this room. Indeed, if it weren't for AIDS activists, there would be no national strategy. "Before we start analyzing the implementation of the strategy, I think it is important to recognize the progress we have already made since the epidemic began 31 years ago. Our ability to prevent, diagnosis and treat HIV/AIDS has improved significantly as a result of federal health policies and programs. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) promotes awareness and testing to reduce the spread of HIV and identify those who are infected. Advances in research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) have allowed people living with HIV/AIDS to live longer and more productive lives. Treatment programs such as Ryan White and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP) have expanded access to treatment for people living with HIV/AIDS who would otherwise not be able to afford it. The Minority AIDS Initiative, which I developed in 1998 when I was chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, has begun to address HIV-related health disparities among African American, Latino, and other minority communities. Finally, PEPFAR – the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief – supports prevention, care and treatment in developing countries. While international programs like PEPFAR are outside of the scope of the U.S. national strategy, they are an essential part of the federal response to the global pandemic. "The National HIV/AIDS Strategy builds on these programs, by targeting them, expanding them, and improving coordination between them. All of these programs exist because of the tireless efforts of AIDS activists over the past 30 years. So give yourselves a round of applause! "The passage of the Affordable Care Act, commonly known as health care reform, has begun the process of reforming our nation's health system so that all Americans will have access to the health care they need. Because of the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies cannot drop you if you test positive for HIV. They cannot place lifetime limits on your coverage and, beginning in 2014, they will not be able to deny you coverage because of a pre-existing condition like AIDS. The Affordable Care Act also expands Medicaid to cover all low-income Americans, including many people living with HIV/AIDS who currently lack coverage. "Unfortunately, the progress we have made against HIV/AIDS is in grave danger of being reversed. The Republicans in the House of Representatives have proposed drastic cuts in funding for critical health programs like Ryan White, ADAP, NIH research, and CDC prevention efforts. The budget agreement the Republicans negotiated last year with the President will subject these programs to drastic across-the-board cuts (also known as sequestration), unless an agreement to avoid them is reached. "The Ryan budget, which was passed in the House of Representatives in March, cuts all non-defense discretionary spending 8.5% below the fiscal year 2012 level. A cut of this magnitude would devastate programs that are critical for the implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy. The Ryan budget also cuts Medicaid by more than $800 billion over the next ten years and turns the program into a block grant for states. That would leave millions of low-income Americans who depend on Medicaid without access to basic health care. Fortunately, the Ryan budget cannot pass the Senate, but it is an accurate reflection of the priorities of congressional Republicans. "The Republicans have been trying to undermine the Affordable Care Act ever since it was signed into law. They have voted over 30 times in the House of Representatives to repeal the Affordable Care Act. They tried unsuccessfully to have the entire law declared unconstitutional, and they are trying to prevent the law's implementation by defunding it. This would leave countless Americans with pre-existing conditions like AIDS unable to obtain health insurance. Moreover, following the decision of the Supreme Court to make Medicaid expansion optional, several Republican governors have announced their states would rather leave low-income Americans without access to health care than participate in Medicaid expansion. "Now I know there may be Republicans in this room. And that's a good thing, because we need Republicans to support our efforts. Over the years, there have been a number of Republicans who have supported HIV/AIDS programs. PEPFAR, for example, was established by President Bush. "But the Republican Party today has come to be dominated by Tea Party extremists who don't believe the government should have anything to do with public health policy. Consequently, many of the Republicans who publicly supported HIV/AIDS programs in the past are now reluctant to do so. For example, Republican Members of Congress who signed my appropriations requests for the Minority AIDS Initiative or cosponsored the Stop AIDS in Prison Act in previous Congresses have refrained from doing so since 2011. "We need to tell our Republican friends in Congress to stand up to the extremists in their midst and support the HIV/AIDS programs they've supported in the past. And we need to tell everyone in Congress not to balance the budget on the backs of people living with HIV/AIDS. "Lobbying is essential, but it is not enough. Sometimes, we need to yell to get our message across. We need to organize in our communities. We need to educate our neighbors about public policy. We need to demonstrate. We need to protest. We need to march. We need to act up! Now is not the time to relax. Now is not the time to rest on our laurels. We must rededicate ourselves to the challenges ahead. We must confront Members of Congress and tell them to support HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment because no one should have to die of this preventable and treatable disease! We must demand full implementation of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy. We must demand Medicaid expansion in every state so that all low-income Americans have access to health care. We must demand full implementation of the Affordable Care Act so that no one will ever be denied health insurance because of a positive test for HIV. We must demand full funding of domestic and international HIV/AIDS research, prevention, care, and treatment! And we must never give up until we completely eradicate this disease!" ### Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, who are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. The Initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. On March 15, 2012, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2013 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 59 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS in Federal prisons: Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 3547), which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to the adjournment of the 111th Congress. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. The bill is cosponsored by 36 of her colleagues. Requiring health insurance plans to cover HIV screening: Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 4470). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests as preventive health screenings without imposing co-payments or deductibles and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. About 20% of persons living with HIV/AIDS in the United States do not know they are infected. Routine HIV screening would allow them to learn of their status and begin treatment. This bill has 40 cosponsors. Promoting HIV screening: On November 17, 2011, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, urging her to include routine annual screening for HIV in the Essential Health Benefits package under the Affordable Care Act. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. 5. Encouraging involvement by clinicians: Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution (H.Res. 737) in honor of the fifth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. The resolution urges doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. This resolution was cosponsored by 16 of her colleagues in Congress.
07.26.2012	Today, President Obama signed an executive order creating the White House Initiative on Improving Education Outcomes for African Americans. Congresswoman Waters' statement regarding the signing of this executive order is below: "I am pleased that President Obama has signed an executive order focused on improving educational outcomes for African American students. For three years, I, along with the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), have worked diligently with the Obama Administration to develop a mechanism within the Executive Branch to comprehensively address the state of African American education. This work has included dozens of meetings, workshops, and legislative drafts to explore the best ways to improve educational outcomes for African American students." "The President's initiative will provide African American students with the type of comprehensive and in-depth educational policies they need to ensure that they are successful in their studies and their future careers. Like the executive orders established for Hispanic, Native American, and Asian American and Pacific Islanders, this executive order will elevate the educational achievement of African Americans to a national priority." "Improving educational outcomes for African American students is important given the challenges these students face. For example, 10 percent of African Americans drop out of high school before graduating; a statistic that is higher than the national average. By focusing on the complete pipeline of our educational system—from pre-school through graduate school—the President's initiative has the potential to ensure that the generational cycle of educational underachievement in the African American community becomes a thing of the past. "I commend the President for his leadership on this very important issue. I am very excited about the creation of this initiative and I look forward to continuing to work with President Obama, the leadership of this new initiative, and my colleagues in Congress on the successful implementation of this initiative." ###
07.25.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) today introduced the Investment Adviser Examination Improvement Act of 2012, which would provide the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with the authority to impose and collect user fees on investment advisors for the purpose of increasing the number and frequency of SEC examinations. This bill is co-sponsored by Reps. Barney Frank and Michael Capuano. The Congresswoman's statement on the introduction of her bill is below: "It is absolutely essential that we improve the oversight of investment advisers – the people that manage the assets of millions of individual and institutional investors across the country. "Since the crisis four years ago, we have witnessed an unfortunate deterioration in the public's confidence in our financial markets. Though the vast majority of investment advisers operate with integrity and want to help their clients meet their financial goals, it is clear that the SEC's current examination levels need to be augmented in order to bolster the public's trust in this marketplace. "That's why I've introduced the Investment Adviser Examination Improvement Act of 2012. My legislation would provide a dedicated funding source to the SEC to enable a robust investment adviser oversight program, consistent with the first recommendation made by SEC staff in the report required under Section 914 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. "The SEC currently only examines approximately 8 percent of advisers annually, out of the approximately 11,000 advisers registered with the Commission. This legislation would provide the SEC with additional resources to enable examinations, provided that the Commission increases their activity relative to fiscal year 2011. "I believe that this approach provides the simplest, most efficient solution to the problem of inadequate adviser oversight. Also, because the user fees contemplated in my legislation would only be used to fund the regulation of investment advisers, and not to subsidize other functions at the SEC, I think that this option would be more cost effective for the industry. In fact, a recent study by the Boston Consulting Group found that establishing a self-regulatory organization (SRO) would likely cost twice as much as funding an enhanced SEC examination program. "This fact is echoed by Investment Adviser Association Executive Director David Tittsworth, who notes that ‘this legislation represents the smartest, fastest, and most cost-effective solution to ensure greater frequency of investment adviser examinations.' Likewise, Jack E. Herstein, president of the North American Securities Administrators Association (NASAA), notes that, ‘the best way to improve oversight of federally registered investment advisers is to provide the SEC with the resources needed to do the job,' as contemplated by the Investment Adviser Examination Improvement Act of 2012. "SEC funding is only now recovering from its erratic levels during the last decade. And still, resources at the agency are not commensurate with the broad and complex responsibilities delegated to them from Congress. My legislation will help the SEC to close this resource gap. And by entrusting this responsibility to the SEC, it will also leverage their 70 year history of experience in this regulatory role, and prevent the establishment of a duplicative SRO bureaucracy that will increase costs on the investment adviser industry. "I look forward to receiving additional stakeholder feedback on my legislation, and hope to work with my colleagues on the Financial Services Committee to advance the bill through the legislative process." ###
07.25.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) spoke at an event marking the display of the AIDS Memorial Quilt on the National Mall and reading the names of individuals who died of HIV/AIDS and who are remembered on the quilt. The AIDS Memorial Quilt is currently on display on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., during the international AIDS 2012 Conference. Congresswoman Waters, a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS through increased awareness, testing, treatment, and funding, is scheduled to speak at the conference on Thursday, July 26th. The Congresswoman's statement marking the display of the quilt follows: "I am so deeply honored and humbled to be here to participate in this extraordinary quilt. This quilt is a powerful reminder of the AIDS pandemic and the toll it has taken on our world. "The AIDS Memorial Quilt was started by gay rights activists who wanted to make certain their friends who had died of AIDS would not be forgotten. The quilt was displayed for the first time here on the National Mall in Washington, D.C., during the National March for Lesbian and Gay Rights in 1987. Since then, the quilt continued to grow as the disease continued to spread. Today, the quilt is so large that the National Mall cannot fully contain it. "The quilt is the largest community art project in the world, and it was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize in 1989. It is a poignant testimony to love, peace, and possibilities, and I believe it will one day receive the Nobel Peace Prize, which it so richly deserves. "Today, this extraordinary quilt returns to the National Mall where it was first displayed 25 years ago. It is only fitting that the quilt has become the centerpiece of the International AIDS Conference, a conference at which we rededicate ourselves to working for the day when AIDS is eradicated from our world. "The quilt has always reflected the evolution of the epidemic. In the early years, most of the panels represented young gay men whose lives were tragically cut short by AIDS. Today, a new series of panels has been added to remember African American men and women who died of AIDS, illustrating the devastating toll that AIDS is now taking in the black community. And as we look across the National Mall at the thousands of quilt panels, we see that AIDS affects us all. There are men, women and children of every race, creed, and color and every walk of life remembered in these beautiful, memorial panels. "Yet, the AIDS Memorial Quilt is not just a memorial to those who have died. It is a celebration of their lives. The quilt reminds us that every person who died of AIDS was a human being. Every person who died of AIDS had hopes and dreams. Every person who died of AIDS had family and friends who loved them and miss them. Every person who died of AIDS had a name. "So today we come together to celebrate their lives, and we will read their names." ### Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, who are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. The Initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. On March 15, 2012, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2013 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 59 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS in Federal prisons: Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 3547), which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to the adjournment of the 111th Congress. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. The bill is cosponsored by 36 of her colleagues. Requiring health insurance plans to cover HIV screening: Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 4470). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests as preventive health screenings without imposing co-payments or deductibles and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. About 20% of persons living with HIV/AIDS in the United States do not know they are infected. Routine HIV screening would allow them to learn of their status and begin treatment. This bill has 40 cosponsors. Promoting HIV screening: On November 17, 2011, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, urging her to include routine annual screening for HIV in the Essential Health Benefits package under the Affordable Care Act. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. 5. Encouraging involvement by clinicians: Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution (H.Res. 737) in honor of the fifth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. The resolution urges doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. This resolution was cosponsored by 16 of her colleagues in Congress.
07.23.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today celebrated National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day and encouraged the nation's health care providers to promote HIV testing among their patients. This year, National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day falls on July 21st, just prior to the International AIDS 2012 Conference, which is scheduled to open on Sunday, July 22nd in Washington, DC. "The AIDS 2012 Conference provides an excellent opportunity to highlight the important role that doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians play in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, and treatment efforts and to encourage clinicians to promote HIV testing among their patients," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution, H.Res. 737, in honor of the fifth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, and 16 Members of Congress cosponsored her resolution. The resolution urges physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. "There are over one million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and one out of every five of them does not know it. By encouraging their patients to be tested for HIV, doctors can enable infected individuals to access appropriate medical care and begin taking action to avoid spreading the virus to others," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters will be speaking at the AIDS 2012 Conference, as a special guest during a session entitled, "Achieving the Goals of the U.S. National HIV/AIDS Strategy: A Community Perspective," on Thursday, July 26th, 6:30 – 8:30 p.m. Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, who are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. The Initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. On March 15, 2012, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2013 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 59 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Preventing the spread of HIV/AIDS in Federal prisons: Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 3547), which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to the adjournment of the 111th Congress. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. The bill is cosponsored by 36 of her colleagues. Requiring health insurance plans to cover HIV screening: Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 4470). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests as preventive health screenings without imposing co-payments or deductibles and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. About 20% of persons living with HIV/AIDS in the United States do not know they are infected. Routine HIV screening would allow them to learn of their status and begin treatment. This bill has 40 cosponsors. Promoting HIV screening: On November 17, 2011, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to Secretary of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius, urging her to include routine annual screening for HIV in the Essential Health Benefits package under the Affordable Care Act. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. ###
07.11.2012	Today, House Republicans voted for the 31st time to repeal or defund the Affordable Care Act. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) voted against the Republicans' repeal bill, after making the following statement on the floor of the House of Representatives during last night's debate: "I rise to oppose H.R. 6079, the Republicans 31st attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act. This bill is ridiculous. It is as ridiculous as the previous 30 votes to repeal health care reform. It is ridiculous because this bill is going nowhere. It will not be taken up by the Senate, and even if it were to pass the Senate, the President would veto it. "Every day people die from preventable and treatable diseases. Every day almost 50 people die of HIV/AIDS, more than 1,600 people die of heart disease and more than 5,000 people are newly diagnosed with diabetes. Yet the Republicans are trying for the 31st time to deny Americans access to preventable health services and treatment for these conditions. "Because of the Affordable Care Act, more than 6 million young adults under the age of 26 now have health insurance through their parents' plan. Many of these young people just graduated from college. They are worried about finding jobs and paying off their student loans. Yet the Republicans are trying for the 31st time to take away their right to insurance coverage. "Because of the Affordable Care Act, up to 17 million children with preexisting conditions can no longer be denied coverage by their insurers. Yet Republicans are trying for the 31st time to return to the days when these children could not get health insurance. "The bill on the floor today is a political charade. It is not going anywhere, and it is wasting our time when we should be focusing on jobs and our economy. I urge the Republicans to stop this charade, withdraw this bill, and move on to the pressing issues facing this country." ###
06.28.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) released the following statement in response to the Republicans resolution recommending that the House find Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt of Congress. "Today, Congressman Issa, Chairman of the House Oversight Committee, in cooperation with the Republican Majority brought shame and dishonor upon the House with their concocted accusations against Attorney General Holder. For the past year, the Republicans have unsuccessfully tried to prove that the Attorney General was somehow involved in an elaborate scheme to cover-up facts regarding the botched Operation Fast and Furious and federal agents' use of "gunwalking" to combat the violence along the southwest border. Gunwalking was a tactic employed by the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) in which federal agents allowed thousands of guns to be bought by suspected arms traffickers working as straw purchasers on behalf of Mexican drug cartels. Although the Republicans have tried to pin sole responsibility to the current Administration, "gunwalking" actually stems from the Bush Administration's Operation Wide Receiver. "Despite the fact that the Attorney General has testified before Congress nine times on the botched operation; provided almost 8,000 documents to congressional committees; and has made dozens of officials available for hearings and interviews, the Republicans have made every effort to undermine Attorney General Holder's cooperation with congressional hearings. "At every step, Attorney General Holder has made every effort to comply and cooperate with the Republicans' phony investigation of ‘Fast and Furious.' It is clear, however, that Republicans are not interested in justice, but merely in undermining the Attorney General's credibility and manufacturing a scandal on the Obama Administration in a critical election year. "Congressman Issa's crusade has produced no evidence that the Attorney General or senior Department officials were aware of gunwalking in Fast and Furious or knowingly lied or misled Congress. On the contrary, as soon as the Attorney General became aware of the tactic, he put a halt to it, ordered an IG investigation, and instituted internal reform measures. Since he failed to prove his initial accusations against the Attorney General, Congressman Issa moved the goal post once again. The documents now at issue are completely unrelated to how gunwalking was utilized in the operation and are legally barred from being disclosed as they contain confidential information. "The U.S. House of Representatives has never held any Cabinet official in contempt. That Republicans would so frivolously resort to a measure preserved for the most egregious acts of obstruction is additional proof of their ongoing commitment to bring down the Obama Administration when they should be focused on uplifting the millions of Americans who remain unemployed or have lost their homes to foreclosure. As they have at critical points throughout the 112th Congress, Republicans continue to find new ways to abuse the legislative process. "It is for these reasons that I joined with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus in walking out on the illegitimate vote on the Republicans' contempt order. In these critical times, the Republicans should be focusing on jobs, not baseless political stunts." ###
06.28.2012	Washington – Last night on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) offered an amendment to the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill for fiscal year (FY) 2013, which would have restored $500 million for the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program, which creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure. "TIGER could finance a wide variety of innovative highway, bridge and transit projects in urban and rural communities across the country, provided there is sufficient funding," said Congresswoman Waters during debate on the floor of the House of Representatives. "One such project is the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor in Los Angeles County, a light rail project that will run through my district. TIGER grants could be used to finance stations along this corridor in the communities of Leimert Park and Westchester, thereby ensuring that these communities have access to light rail." Congresswoman Waters' amendment was cosponsored by Reps. Betty McCollum, Barbara Lee, Emanuel Cleaver, Karen Bass, Laura Richardson, Bobby L. Rush, and Doris Matsui. Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur, a senior member of the House Appropriations Committee, spoke in favor of the amendment, as did Congresswoman Sheila Jackson-Lee. "The American Society of Civil Engineers' 2009 Report Card for America's Infrastructure estimated that there is a $549.5 billion shortfall in investments in roads and bridges and an additional $190.1 billion shortfall in investments in transit," said Congresswoman Waters. "So I would urge my colleagues to support the TIGER amendment, invest in our crumbling infrastructure, and create good jobs in communities across the United States." Rep. Tom Latham, the Republican Chairman of the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee, raised a point of order against Congresswoman Waters' amendment on technical grounds, and the amendment was ruled out of order. "I urge my Republican colleagues to reconsider their actions and support the TIGER program," said Congresswoman Waters, after her amendment was rejected. "American workers need jobs, and TIGER creates jobs by rebuilding roads, bridges and public transit facilities across the United States." TIGER received an appropriation of $500 million in FY 2012, and the President requested $500 million for the program in FY 2013. However, the Republican-led House Appropriations Committee did not include any funding for TIGER in their version of the THUD funding bill. Consideration of THUD continues today on the floor of the House of Representatives. Last week, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.R. 5976, the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act, which would provide an emergency supplemental appropriation of $1 billion over the next two years for the TIGER program. The bill is cosponsored by 48 of the Congresswoman's colleagues, including several members of the House Appropriations Committee and the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. ###
06.28.2012	Washington – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the decision of the Supreme Court to uphold the Affordable Care Act: "American families have won a great victory today!" "The United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act. This means the Affordable Care Act is the law of the land, and the American people can move forward and take advantage of the benefits of this landmark law. Because of the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies cannot drop you if you become sick. They cannot place lifetime limits on your coverage, and they cannot refuse to cover you because of a pre-existing condition." "The Affordable Care Act is already making a difference in the lives of millions of Americans. More than 6 million young adults under the age of 26 now have health insurance through their parents' plans. Up to 17 million children with pre-existing conditions can no longer be denied coverage by insurers. More than 5 million seniors have saved money on their prescription drugs, and 54 million Americans in private plans have received one or more free preventive services. Finally, just last year, 360,000 small businesses used tax credits to purchase health insurance for 2 million workers." "Because of today's decision, the Affordable Care Act will be fully implemented in 2014, and no insurance company will ever again be able to deny coverage to Americans with pre-existing conditions. Americans with cancer, diabetes, heart disease, and HIV/AIDS will get the care they need, and American families will rest assured they will not lose their insurance when they need it most!" ###
06.20.2012	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act. This bill will provide an emergency supplemental appropriation of one billion dollars over the next two years for the Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program, which creates jobs by funding investments in transportation infrastructure. The bill is cosponsored by 36 of her colleagues. "The economy is struggling to recover from the recession," said Congresswoman Waters. "The unemployment rate has remained above 8 percent nationally for 40 straight months and is even higher in minority communities and in many areas of the country. Moreover, the American Society of Civil Engineers' 2009 Report Card for America's Infrastructure estimated that there is a $549.5 billion shortfall in investments in roads and bridges and an additional $190.1 billion shortfall in investments in transit." TIGER could finance a wide variety of innovative highway, bridge and transit projects in urban and rural communities across the country, provided there is sufficient funding. One such project is the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor in Los Angeles County, a light rail project that will run through Congresswoman Waters' district. TIGER grants could be used to finance stations along this corridor in the communities of Leimert Park and Westchester, thereby ensuring that these communities have access to light rail. Projects like this reduce gridlock and create safe, affordable, convenient, and environmentally sustainable transportation choices. "I call upon my colleagues to pass the TIGER Grants for Job Creation Act, invest in our crumbling infrastructure, and create good jobs in communities across the United States," said Congresswoman Waters. TIGER received an appropriation of $500 million in fiscal year (FY) 2012, and the President requested $500 million in FY 2013. However, the House Appropriations Committee, which marked up the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development (THUD) Appropriations bill yesterday, did not include any funding for TIGER. Meanwhile, negotiations between House and Senate conferees over the surface transportation bill have stalled. "It is especially unfortunate that House appropriators would defund TIGER while other transportation programs are in danger of losing their authorization," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
05.30.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) congratulated Hawthorne based Space Exploration Technologies (SpaceX) on the successful launch and subsequent rendezvous of their Dragon spacecraft with the International Space Station. In a letter to SpaceX CEO and CTO Elon Musk, Congresswoman Waters commended the ten year old company on it's pioneering efforts in laying the groundwork for commercial transportation into space. "I am so pleased and proud that a company headquartered in my 35th Congressional district is making these significant strides. The South Bay has long been a breeding ground for innovation in aeronautics. We are the home of the Los Angeles Air Force Base, the Aerospace Corporation, and other companies actively involved in the aerospace industry. I would like to thank SpaceX for opening new doors in space exploration and continuing the great tradition of aerospace history coming from companies right here in the South Bay." Earlier today, Astronauts aboard the International Space Station, which is 250 miles above Earth, used their robotic crane to snare SpaceX's Dragon capsule while the two spacecraft orbited the planet at 17,500 miles an hour. The reusable Dragon was launched from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Tuesday aboard a Falcon rocket, also built by SpaceX in their Hawthorne, CA facility. SpaceX is now the first private company in history to successfully launch and deliver cargo to the Space Station, an artificial satellite within Earth's orbit that has been visited by astronauts from 15 different nations. In April 2011, NASA awarded SpaceX with membership in the Commercial Crew Development program, a space technology development program that aims to encourage the creation of privately operated spacecraft. Established in 2002, SpaceX has already created two new launch vehicles and received funding from NASA to develop the capacity for the delivery and return of cargo to the International Space Station. With the retirement of the U.S. Space Shuttle, Russia currently resupplies the space station. However, NASA is now considering private vehicles as our sole transporter of flying supplies, and SpaceX has successfully demonstrated it can handle this responsibility. The South Bay company also has contracts with the Unites States Air Force and private satellite communications companies. "The amount of jobs this will create for the American economy is not yet known, but it is quite apparent that SpaceX's ambitious efforts will result in the creation of many new positions" said Congresswoman Waters. "I applaud their already impressive accomplishments." ###
05.30.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) held a reception at the Hawthorne Memorial Center to honor the 31 high school students from the 35th Congressional District who submitted art into the 2012 Congressional Art Competition. Today, Congresswoman Waters honored 31 students from seven high schools across her congressional district who submitted art into this year's Congressional Art Competition. Members of the community along with the student's parents and teachers filled the Venus room at the Hawthorne Memorial Center to see the amazing display of student art. "I'm extremely proud of all the talented young people in our District and am pleased to have this annual opportunity to show off their work" said Congresswoman Waters. The Congressional Art Competition began in 1982 to provide an opportunity for members of Congress to encourage and recognize the artistic talents of their young constituents. Since then, over 650,000 high school students have been involved with the nation-wide competition. "We know with the serious budget cuts in our schools, it often falls on the parents and sometimes even to the teachers to purchase the supplies needed to teach, let alone to create art. All of you involved in our young people's lives are to be commended for doing whatever it takes to encourage them and nurture their talents, whatever they may be," said Congresswoman Waters to the event's attendees. This year's first place prize winner is De'Von Stubblefield, a senior at St. Bernard High School. His pen & ink drawing titled "West Side Dancers" will be displayed in the Nation's Capitol for one year. The second place prize went to Kyle Moreno, a senior at Loyola High School, for his multi-media piece entitled "Overpass/Underpass." Kyle's piece will be displayed in the Congresswoman's Capitol Hill office for one year. The third place prize was awarded to Hoa Phan, a senior at Hawthorne's Leuzinger High School. His drawing titled "In the Life" will be displayed in Congresswoman's Los Angeles district office for the next year. Southwest Airlines and Time Warner Cable served as sponsors for this year's event. Southwest Airlines will be providing two complimentary plane tickets for the 35th Congressional District winner to travel to Washington D.C. for the official unveiling ceremony in late June at the U.S. Capitol. Time/Warner Cable contributed to the prize money for the three winners. Representing Time Warner Cable was their Senior Director, Government Affairs - West Region, Richard Benbow, who is a graduate of Westchester High School in the 35th Congressional District. ### Congresswoman Waters with (from the left) 1st Place Winner - De'Von Stubblefield, 3rd Place Winner - Hoa Phan and 2nd Place Winner - Kyle Moreno Congresswoman Waters with CA-35 high schools students who submitted art into this year's Congressional Art Competition
05.29.2012	Rep. Maxine Waters sent the letter below to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) Acting Director Edward DeMarco on implementation of the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) and the latest version of the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP 2.0). The letter is sent in response to a recent report by the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, which found that HHF, which was funded at $7.6 billion, has only spent 3 percent of its funding. The letter also expresses concerns about HARP 2.0, which appears to be failing to serve the underwater borrowers it was designed to assist. Rep. Waters and the Democratic signers called on Treasury and FHFA to make immediate improvements to both programs. "I believe very strongly in the potential of both of these programs and believe that their performance thus far should not be used to undermine the value of government interventions to assist struggling homeowners," Rep. Waters said. For a copy of the pdf version of the letter, with a complete list of all signers, click here. May 25, 2012 The Honorable Timothy Geithner Secretary U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington DC, 20220 Mr. Edward DeMarco Acting Director Federal Housing Finance Agency 400 7th Street, SW Washington, DC 20024 Dear Messrs. Secretary and Acting Director: We write to you out of concern with the state of the Administration's implementation of various housing recovery programs, specifically the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF) and the newest iteration of the Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP 2.0). According to numerous accounts, these programs are falling well short of their goals of assisting homeowners. A recent report by the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP) found that HHF, which was designed to provide funding to states to assist homeowners with mortgage payments, has only spent 3 percent of its funding and only helped 30,640 homeowners since 2010. Eligible activities under HHF included principal reduction, payoff of second liens, reinstatement of the mortgage through the payment of past due amounts, mortgage assistance for unemployed homeowners, and assistance for families to transition out of homeownership, such as short sales or deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure. Despite the wide breadth of activities eligible for HHF, the vast majority of funds, or 78 percent, that were spent, were spent on assistance for unemployed homeowners. The report found that servicers leaned on these programs because they were the only ones that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac would allow them to participate in. It appears that there was a serious lack of coordination between Treasury and the GSE's regulator, which contributed to the program's performance. Therefore, we do not believe that the abysmal spend-out rate of program funds is the fault of the states that received HHF, which totaled $7.6 billion nationally. Rather, we agree with the findings of the SIGTARP report that Treasury made critical errors in its design, implementation, and oversight of the program. According to SIGTARP: HHF lacked comprehensive planning by Treasury, which rushed out the program without appropriate collaboration of key stakeholders. Treasury's decision to give one to two days' notice to states and six to eight weeks to develop programs caught several states off guard. Several states delayed HHF programs because the large mortgage servicers were not participating… One great shortcoming in HHF's implementation was Treasury's lack of timely action to enlist large servicer support for and participation in state HHF programs while leaving it to the [state housing finance agencies]to negotiate with servicers… As was clear in the beginning of HHF, states need Treasury's help and support to increase the number of homeowners helped… We are extremely disappointed by these findings as we believed that HHF had the potential to assist hundreds of thousands of homeowners. For example, in the state of California, which has spent 11 percent of its funds, HHF only assisted 4,357 homeowners. According to CoreLogic, from March 2010 to March 2012, over 350,000 California families lost their homes to foreclosure. We view the stalled progress of HHF as a serious impediment to the nation's housing and economic recovery and we call on you to immediately implement the recommendations in the SIGTARP report. The revelations about the shortcomings in HHF become more serious in light of the reported shortcomings of HARP 2.0. According to numerous reports, the program is failing to serve homeowners who are severely underwater, the very constituency it was designed to support. For example, according to an analysis by Inside Mortgage Finance, while HARP loans rose 93 percent from the last quarter of 2011 to the first quarter of this year, only 21 percent of those loans were for mortgages where the borrower had a loan-to-value ratio of more than 105 percent. The participation of banks in HARP 2.0 is also a problem. According to the Federal Reserve's April 2012 Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey on Bank Lending Practices, 70 percent of banks are either not actively soliciting HARP 2.0 applications or have participated very little in the program. For the banks that are participating, many of them have added their own requirements on top of HARP 2.0 requirements that are either pushing otherwise qualified borrowers out of the program or forcing them to refinance at a higher price. For example, several major banks are not refinancing loans that they do not already service. This prevents homeowners from shopping around for the best price, a task that is essential since banks are charging higher than market rates for HARP 2.0 refis. According to one analysis, banks are charging between 3.5 and 7 points for HARP 2.0 loans, with some banks charging even more. We fail to see how additional credit requirements, limited consumer choice, and higher than market fees are a benefit to the nation's homeowners or to our overall housing market. It is clear to us that HARP 2.0 is not serving the homeowners it was designed to serve. It is also clear that the homeowners who the program does manage to serve are not being served well or even fairly. We call upon you to take immediate action to prohibit these activities in the HARP 2.0 program so that it works for underwater homeowners and not against them. Despite numerous interventions by the Administration, the housing market remains weak and its recovery remains an obstacle to our country's broader economic growth. While we believe that our government's interventions are necessary for the sake of the economy, we do not believe in interventions that do not work well or that do not work as intended. We want these programs to be successful and we call upon you to correct these errors in these programs so that neither they nor the concept of government intervention in the housing market can be called into question. We look forward to your prompt response. Please contact Charla Ouertatani or Amanda Fischer with Rep. Waters at 202-225-2201 with any questions about this letter. Sincerely,
05.23.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) released the following statement commending Loyola Marymount University's (LMU) TRiO Upward Bound Program for receiving a $1.2 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education. LMU will use these funds to continue its work helping low-income and first-generation-to-college students graduate from high school and get into college. The Congresswoman's statement is below: "Since 2007, Loyola Marymount University's (LMU) Upward Bound program has been pivotal in increasing high school graduation and college enrollment rates among first-generation-to-college and low-income students. I am extremely pleased to announce that LMU's Upward Bound program has been awarded a $1.2 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education to further their college-prep program. Throughout my career I have worked tirelessly to ensure that Upward Bound and other TRiO programs remain funded to guarantee that low-income and first-generation youth succeed in college. LMU's Upward Bound program continues to make a difference within our community by showing our youth that a college education is within their reach. Through hard work and dedication to their students, LMU's Upward Bound program has a 100 percent high school graduation, college admittance and matriculation rate for their 2010, 2011 and 2012 class of seniors." As a part of the historic Higher Education Act of 1965, Upward Bound has provided fundamental support to low-income and first generation college students prepare for college entrance since 1965. Upward Bound provides opportunities for participants to succeed in their precollege performance through summer college-prep and enrichment courses, financial aid and admission seminars, academic tutoring and mentoring support. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which participants complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from institutions of postsecondary education. "LMU's Upward Bound Program serves more than 50 students a year at Westchester Enriched Sciences Magnet. Since its inception, LMU's Upward Bound programs has graduated a total of 49 students from college. In a time where young people face countless barriers in their pursuit of a college education, it is encouraging to see LMU's continued commitment to ensuring low-income and first generation students are prepared to succeed in college." Loyola Marymount University's $1.2 million grant will go toward further supporting their Upward Bound program for the next five years. This is the second Upward Bound award LMU has received from the federal government. ###
05.23.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) released the following statement commending Co-Op LA's TRiO Upward Bound program for receiving a $2.6 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education. Co-Op LA will use these funds to continue its work helping low-income and first-generation-to-college students graduate from high school and get into college. CO-OP is a nonprofit organization that provides comprehensive case-managed services to eligible residents in the Greater Los Angeles area. The Congresswoman's statement is below: "I am extremely pleased that Co-Op LA's Upward Bound program has been awarded a $2.6 million grant from the U.S. Department of Education to further assist low-income and first-generation-to-college youth graduate high school and get into college. The $2.6 million will go towards expanding Co-Op LA's Upward Bound program to serve a total of 112 students a year at five local high schools. Throughout my career I have worked tirelessly to ensure that Upward Bound and other TRiO programs remain funded to make certain that low-income and first-generation youth succeed in college. Education is the best investment we can make in our nation's future, I applaud Co-Op LA's unyielding commitment to ensuring our youth are adequately prepared to succeed in college." As a part of the historic Higher Education Act of 1965, Upward Bound has provided fundamental support to low-income and first generation college students prepare for college entrance since 1965. Upward Bound provides opportunities for participants to succeed in their precollege performance through summer college-prep and enrichment courses, financial aid and admission seminars, academic tutoring and mentoring support. The goal of Upward Bound is to increase the rate at which participants complete secondary education and enroll in and graduate from institutions of postsecondary education."Since 2003, Co-Op LA's Upward Bound program has played a critical role in increasing high school graduation and college enrollment rates in the West Los Angeles and Centinela Valley communities. Co-Op LA's outstanding 100 percent graduation, 98 percent college retention, and 95 percent college completion rates has earned them national and international acclaim for their successful implementation of college-readiness strategies and parent involvement activities. With no less than 40 percent of alumni matriculating into graduate school, Co-Op LA's Upward Bound program instills a true sense of resiliency and pride into their students that continues to serve them into adulthood. I'm ecstatic about the work being done with our youth at Co-Op LA. Their commitment to positive change in our community is a shining example of what it truly means to serve." Co-Op LA's $2.6 million grant will go toward further expansion and facilitation their Upward Bound program for an additional five years. With this expansion, Co-Op LA's Upward Bound program will now serve students from Westchester Enriched Sciences Magnet, Los Angeles Senior High School, Morningside High School, Inglewood High School, and Gardena High School. ###
05.15.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a long-time advocate for international human rights and assistance for impoverished nations, participated today in a hearing on "The Costs and Consequences of Dodd-Frank Section 1502: Impacts on America and the Congo." The hearing was held by the International Monetary Policy and Trade Subcommittee of the Financial Services Committee to consider proposed rules affecting imports of conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). The Congresswoman submitted the following statement for the hearing record: "I would like to thank Chairman Gary Miller and Ranking Member Carolyn McCarthy for allowing me to participate in this hearing on, "The Costs and Consequences of Dodd-Frank Section 1502: Impacts on America and the Congo." "The Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) is one of several countries in Africa that have been affected by the so-called "resource curse." The resource curse describes the tendency for countries that are rich in oil, gas, and mineral resources to experience slower growth, higher levels of poverty, and more civil strife than countries that are not resource-rich." "Armed conflict in the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) continues to cause countless deaths and untold suffering among the civilian population. Armed groups finance their activities through the exploitation of the DRC's natural resources, specifically tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold. The conflict has given rise to widespread rape, sexual violence, and human trafficking, and the parties to the conflict often use these crimes deliberately to terrorize and humiliate communities." "Other countries affected by the resource curse include Sudan, which is rich in oil, yet is cursed with a government that has committed genocide against its own people. Liberia is endowed with a wealth of diamonds, which came to be known as conflict diamonds because they fueled a civil war that lasted fourteen years, took the lives of 270,000 Liberians, and displaced almost one million more. Angola is rich in oil, and Sierra Leone is rich in diamonds, and both are recovering from civil wars. South Africa is rich in gold, platinum, and coal, and it is recovering from decades of oppression under the brutal system of apartheid." "Section 1502 was included in the Dodd-Frank legislation to address the concerns about conflict minerals in the DRC. Section 1502 requires companies registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that use tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold to report publicly whether they obtained their supplies from Congo, and if so, what due diligence they exercised to ensure that their supply chains did not benefit armed groups. Section 1502 will grant investors and members of the public the right to know if and when imports of resources from the DRC contributed to armed conflict in that country." "I strongly support Section 1502, and I am deeply concerned about the SEC's delay in adopting a final rule. I am also concerned by the apparent efforts of some companies to convince the SEC to adopt a weak or unenforceable rule. Section 1502 is not an onerous or burdensome regulation. It is a simple reporting requirement, designed to ensure transparency. American investors have a right to know if their money is being used to support rape, murder, human trafficking, or other gross violations of basic human rights." "I am also a strong supporter of Dodd-Frank Section 1504, which is known as the extractive industries transparency requirement. Section 1504 requires companies registered with the SEC to disclose what they pay to foreign governments for extracting oil, natural gas, and minerals, not just in the Congo, but in countries throughout the world. The data would have to be disclosed on a project-by-project basis and a country-by-country basis so that payments can be tracked in a transparent manner. Disclosure of payments to developing country governments will allow members of civil society in developing countries to identify government officials who receive payments for resource extraction, and hold them accountable for the use of the money." "Together, Section 1502 and Section 1504 will help American investors make certain that their investments are not being used to support corruption, violence, and violations of human rights in Congo and elsewhere around the world. I strongly urge the SEC to adopt strong and effective rules on both of these sections as soon as possible." ###To read more about Congresswoman Waters' efforts to help impoverished nations, click here.
05.08.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters sent the following letter to Rep. Paul Ryan, commending him on his strong stance [Article: https://thinkprogress.org/economy/2012/05/07/479207/paul-ryan-volcker-rule/ ] in favor of the concepts expressed in the "Volcker Rule." In addition, Rep. Waters asked him to join her in the effort to ensure transparent and workable implementation of the rule. The full text of the letter is below: Chairman Paul Ryan Committee on the Budget U.S. House of Representatives 207 Cannon House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairman Ryan: I read with great interest your comments from last week, where you noted that it's important that "if you're a bank and you want to operate like some non-bank entity like a hedge fund, then don't be a bank. Don't let banks use their customers' money to do anything other than traditional banking. Those to me are the key tenets of reform which we did not see happen." I agree with you that we must ensure that firms that are backed by customers' deposits are engaged in traditional banking activities – not speculation or trading. That is precisely the reason why I supported a strong Volcker Rule, which was codified in Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Our federal banking regulators, as well as the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, are currently in the process of finalizing their proposal implementing the Volcker Rule. I urge you to join me in calling on our regulators to implement a clear and effective Volcker Rule without delay, so that we can see this key tenet of reform happen. As you know, American families and businesses suffered when our banking system broke down before. The Volcker Rule is one step towards ensuring that American taxpayers are never again be asked to bail out banks' bad bets. Let's join together to support a strong Volcker Rule.
05.03.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world through increased awareness, screening, research, treatment, and funding, announced progress on two of her HIV/AIDS initiatives in the 112th Congress. Congresswoman Waters introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 4470) on April 19th, and more than 20 Members of Congress have agreed to cosponsor the bill over the past two weeks. The bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests as preventive health screenings without imposing co-payments or deductibles. It was endorsed by The AIDS Institute. "There are over 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and about 20% of them do not know they are infected," said Congresswoman Waters. "Routine screening will allow individuals living with HIV/AIDS to find out about their infection, begin life-extending treatment, and avoid spreading the virus to others. I urge my colleagues in Congress to pass this bill immediately." Congresswoman Waters also urged the Appropriations Committee to provide an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which supports HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, which are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. "Racial and ethnic minorities have been severely impacted by the HIV/AIDS epidemic," said Congresswoman Waters. "Robust funding of the Minority AIDS Initiative is critical to empower these communities to stop the spread of HIV and treat those who have been infected." On March 15, 2012, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2013, and 59 Members of Congress signed her letter. The Minority AIDS Initiative was established under Congresswoman Waters' leadership in 1998, during her tenure as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus. The Initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. Congresswoman Waters has also sponsored several other HIV/AIDS initiatives, including a bill to stop the spread of HIV among Federal prison inmates and a resolution to promote the involvement of primary care physicians in HIV/AIDS awareness and screening. ###
05.03.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters along with Rushmore Cervantes, Interim General Manager, Los Angeles Housing Department; Timothy Watkins, CEO, Watts Labor Community Action Committee; and Charles Quarles, President, Bedford Group joined Shaun Donovan, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) during his visit to Los Angeles for a tour of several properties that have benefited from the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) in South Los Angeles. Congresswoman Waters statement about Secretary Donovan's visit is below: "I am so pleased to see the great work that the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) is doing in our community, and to highlight the need to expand upon our previous efforts with Project Rebuild. As the author of NSP, I saw the need to address the issues struggling communities faced when it came to the rehabilitation of vacant and foreclosed properties. Two years ago, Secretary Donovan came to South Los Angeles and toured some Neighborhood Stabilization Program properties with me. In the years since the Secretary was last here, we've made some progress. But more clearly still needs to be done." "About a quarter of people with mortgages in our state have negative equity. That amounts to about 2 million households, and they're each underwater to the tune of about $90,000 a piece. In all there is about $30 billion of negative equity in California. These statistics are why I've made advocacy for NSP and other foreclosure-assistance programs a central part of my work in Congress." "The only reason we have the Neighborhood Stabilization Program is because we demanded that unless this program was authorized, and provided with $4 billion in funding, we were going to hold up President Bush's Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 – the bill that let him take-over Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. There was no appetite to help struggling communities rehabilitate vacant and foreclosed properties at that time, but we in Congress made it a priority." "With a total NSP funding level of $7 billion, HUD estimates that 100,000 properties in the hardest-hit areas will be impacted. This number of properties makes up almost 20 percent of the real estate-owned (REO) properties in NSP-targeted areas. Moreover, HUD estimates that NSP will support about 100,000 jobs nationwide." "This funding has had a direct and substantial impact on the greater Los Angeles area. During the second, competitive round of funding, Los Angeles received the largest grant award of any city in the United States and the second largest grant overall, clearly a testament both to the work of advocates and local officials here on the ground, and also the scale of the foreclosure problem in Los Angeles." "Though we've had some important victories, more still clearly needs to be done on the issue of foreclosures, and I'm pleased that the Secretary has taken the opportunity to highlight this with me today, right here in Los Angeles." ###
05.01.2012	Today, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), a congressional leader on Alzheimer's issues, welcomed members of the Alzheimer's Association to Washington, DC, and reiterated her strong support for programs to assist Americans affected by Alzheimer's disease. The advocates came to Washington from all 50 states to bring attention to the needs of Alzheimer's patients, caregivers, and families during the Alzheimer's Association's Annual Advocacy Forum, April 23-25, 2012. "As a long-time leader of congressional efforts to address the needs Alzheimer's patients and their families, I welcome you to Capitol Hill, and I will continue to work with you to bring attention to the devastating effects of Alzheimer's disease on millions of American families," said Congresswoman Waters. An estimated 5.3 million people in the United States have Alzheimer's disease, and most of them live at home under the care of family and friends. Congresswoman Waters also congratulated the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee for recommending an appropriation of $1 million for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, during its April 19th markup of the fiscal year 2013 CJS appropriations bill. The Congresswoman had previously sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the subcommittee requesting a $2 million appropriation for this program. The Congresswoman's letter was signed by a total of 28 Members of Congress. "While the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program did not receive as much funding as we requested, I was encouraged by the subcommittee's decision to continue funding this small but important program, and I urge the full Appropriations Committee to increase the funding to $2 million" said Congresswoman Waters. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program provides grants to non-profit organizations to enable them to establish and operate programs to identify, locate and protect Alzheimer's patients who wander away from home. According to the Alzheimer's Association, more than 60% of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander, and up to 50% of them will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. Congresswoman Waters is the author of two bills in the 112th Congress to address the needs of Alzheimer's patients and their families. The Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 2798) expands training and support services for families and caregivers of Alzheimer's patients, and the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization (H.R. 2800) renews congressional support for the aforementioned program. Both bills have bipartisan support. ###
04.26.2012	Today, three Californian interns from the Washington Center for Internship Placement (TWC) met with Congresswoman Maxine Waters in her Washington, DC office. The interns, who attend California State University- Long Beach and Loyola Marymount University (LMU), spoke with the Congresswoman about their current internship sites and policy issues concerning: public schools, budgetary cuts to education, diversity within her congressional district, and higher education funding. When asked about the visit, Solange Rubio-Berdejo, TWC intern who attends LMU, said: "The most interesting question was about the forecast on the public educational system. It was interesting to get an insight on the visions and goals of Representative Maxine Water on education. She is truly an admirable women."###
03.29.2012	Congresswoman Waters joined Congressman Russ Carnahan (D-MO) and other members in introducing legislation today to protect veterans' rights to mental healthcare treatment and services. The "Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act" is also supported by the AMVETS service organization. The Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act would eliminate a five year window to seek mental health treatment, allowing veterans who served in combat from all military operations to seek treatment for service-connected mental illnesses, regardless of when their conditions manifest themselves. "We understand the critical need to quickly address the physical wounds of our warfighters," said Rep. Waters. "Taking care of the mental health needs of veterans, when they return to their loved ones, is just as important. Our American heroes shouldn't have to race to beat the clock. This legislation will restore our commitment to mental health services and ensure that it is not just a coupon with an expiration date." Unlike physical injuries from the battlefield, which are immediately obvious and life threatening, mental illnesses might not manifest until years after active duty, according to the Veteran's Administration (VA). Despite this potential need for treatment, veterans have a limited window of time to seek help. The Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act eliminates those arbitrary deadlines. "Placing a deadline on veterans who may come to need mental health treatment means many of our wounded warriors simply will not receive that care," said Waters. "Just like physical battle scars, we've seen the devastating consequences when mental injuries go untreated. This Act will help remove the stigma and the bureaucratic boundaries that stand in the way of wellness for our brave veterans." Rep. Waters was joined by Reps. Jason Altmire (PA-12), Tim Ryan (OH-17), Charles Rangel (NY 15), Jackie Speier (CA-12), Lois Capps (CA-23), Joe Courtney (CT-2), Gwen Moore (WI-4), Judy Chu (CA-32) and Janice Hahn (CA-36) in co-sponsoring this important piece of legislation. VA officials estimate that up to 43 percent of veterans who served in Operations Enduring Freedom (OEF) and Iraqi Freedom (OIF) may eventually need mental health services. Currently, OEF and OIF veterans face a five year window in which they must seek treatment for mental illnesses before losing their higher priority status. Veterans from previous wars face even harsher bureaucratic obstacles. The Veterans Mental Health Accessibility Act would also make the services and treatments that are available to OEF and OIF veterans available to all veterans who have served in combat in previous military operations such as the Second World War, the Korean War, and Vietnam. The VA would continue treating only service-related disorders and allows its healthcare professionals to diagnose mental disorders and illnesses according to established procedures. ###
03.29.2012	Today, Rep. Waters joined her colleagues as one of the original co-sponsors of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2012. This legislation strengthens the abilities of the Federal Government, States, law enforcement, and service providers to combat domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. "All Americans are entitled to feel safe in their workplace, in their homes, and walking on the street," Rep. Waters said. "Yet too many women continue to live in fear. And that is why we must reauthorize and strengthen the Violence Against Women Act." The Violence Against Women Act has a strong track record of success, demonstrably improving the criminal justice system's ability to keep victims safe and hold perpetrators accountable. The annual incidence of domestic violence has dropped more than 50 percent since the law was originally enacted. "The original passage of the Violence Against Women Act was a watershed moment and a bipartisan victory," Rep. Waters said. "I urge my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to join me in again making progress to protect America's women and children." ###
03.12.2012	Last week, the House Judiciary Committee approved legislation in response to the rising number of smugglers' tunnels found along the US-Mexico border. H.R. 4119, "The Border Tunnel Prevention Act of 2012" would expand existing law by making it a crime to conspire to build, use, or finance a border tunnel. The legislation would also authorize the use of wiretapping to investigate and prosecute those conspiring to build such tunnels. In expressing support for the legislation, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) delivered the following remarks: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to first thank my colleague, Congressman Silvestre Reyes (D-El Paso) for introducing H.R. 4119, and commend you for organizing today's mark-up of this very important legislation. Indeed, there has been a considerable increase in the number of tunnels being used for transporting drugs, guns, and contraband. And nowhere is the urgency felt greater than along the California and Arizona borders with Mexico. Since 2006, federal authorities have found 40 and 74 tunnels in those states, respectively. Altogether, our federal agents have found 149 cross-border tunnels since 1990 – and 139 of those tunnels have been discovered since the September 11th attacks in 2001. We must ensure that our federal officials have every tool at their disposal in their efforts to combat the proliferation of these tunnels so that our communities along the Southwest US-Mexico border can feel safe and secure. Therefore, I strongly support passage of H.R. 4119 and urge my colleagues to vote ‘yes' on the legislation. Thank you, and I yield back the balance of my time. ###
02.29.2012	Yesterday, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1433, "The Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2011." Introduced by Congressman James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), the legislation is intended to protect private property owners and communities from eminent domain abuse, and restore property rights that the Supreme Court changed in the controversial case, Kelo v. City of New London. In Kelo, the Court upheld the ability of the State and Federal government to transfer privately-owned property against the wishes of the owner to a large corporation, declaring that the resulting economic development would produce benefits to the community. The Supreme Court's Kelo ruling raised serious concerns that the government could use its power to seize private property from individual private citizens for the benefit of more powerful, better connected, wealthier private parties. The case sparked widespread outrage and resulted in unlikely political alliances of both conservative Republicans – concerned about case's constitutional implications and impact on due process – and progressive Democrats, who decried eminent domain abuse among local governments and private developers who systematically used the law to uproot vulnerable Americans from their homes and communities. "I am very pleased that the House last night passed H.R. 1433 to reverse the Supreme Court's overly broad Kelo ruling," Rep. Waters said. "This legislation is critical to preventing states from using eminent domain to seize private property from one individual in order to transfer it to a company for for economic development. Eminent domain abuse impacts both urban and rural communities, and it is past time that the Congress acted affirmatively to protect the private property rights of all Americans – who all too often are not evenly matched to challenge private companies in lengthy litigation. Where the Supreme Court has created ambiguity, Congress must be clear: there should never be a legal question concerning the rights individuals have to their own homes and property." The Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2011 will restore the property rights of all Americans and prevent the federal government or any authority of the federal government from using economic development as a justification for exercising its power of eminent domain. The bill will also discourage states and localities from abusing their eminent domain power by denying states or localities that commit such abuse all federal economic development funds for a period of two years. "The legislation I introduced with Rep. Sensenbrenner restores fairness and protects every American citizen from being deprived of a fundamental right by a powerful government," Rep Waters explained. "As a progressive Democrat, while I do not always agree with Congressman Sensenbrenner, who is a conservative Republican, we both feel very strongly about the principles at stake. The abuse of eminent domain at the expense of individual property owners is not what our founders intended." Although 44 states have enacted new laws limiting eminent domain power in the years since Kelo, many of the new laws contain loopholes that make them easy to circumvent. For example, 19 states have forbidden takings for "economic development" but continue to permit the exact same kinds of condemnations under the guise of alleviating blight. These laws define blight so broadly that properties in any number of neighborhoods could be subject to condemnation. "One of the basic Constitutional functions of American government is the protection of private property rights," Rep. Waters stated. "H.R. 1433 will protect homes, communities, churches, and other privately-owned property from predatory takings under the guise of ‘economic development.' Private developers and local governments that have a genuine project should be able to acquire the land or property they need through legitimate, voluntary purchases. If the project really is more valuable than the current use of the same land, then they should be willing to negotiate with property owners who are willing to sell. Otherwise, the federal government must protect the rights of private property owners to be secure in their own homes and communities. Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced this legislation as H.R. 1855 during the 111th Congress; H.R. 3053 during the 110th Congress; and both bills is substantially similar to H.R. 4128, legislation that passed the House in the 109th Congress by an overwhelming vote of 376-38 but was never enacted. ###
02.22.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) released the following statement commending Comcast-NBC Universal's launch of four new independent minority-owned channels. Throughout the course of the Comcast-NBC merger review, Rep. Waters: initiated congressional hearings, pushed the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to extend the comment period for additional public input, filed comments with the FCC, and led congressional efforts to ensure that if the merger was approved, it contained conditions that expanded opportunities for women and minorities in media ownership, programming, and advertising. I am pleased that Comcast-NBC Universal has taken steps to honor its commitment to media diversity in programming and ownership. All throughout the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Department of Justice's reviews of the Comcast-NBC Merger, I challenged both companies to present credible voluntary commitments and proposals that would expand media diversity by extending ownership opportunities to minority and women-owned enterprises. With the scheduled launches of both Magic Johnson's "Aspire" and Sean Combs' "Revolt" television networks, Comcast-NBC appears to be making progress in efforts to fulfill its public interest commitments. In addition to these two new networks, I am also pleased with the announcement of the two new Latino-owned channels and look forward to learning more about Robert Rodriguez's "El Rey" and Constantino "Said" Schwarz's "BabyFirst Americas" television networks. From the launch of new MSNBC shows from the Rev. Al Sharpton, Melissa Harris Perry, Tamron Hall, and Martin Bashir, to Comcast-NBC's recently-announced deals with Suzanne DePasse, Magic Johnson, and Sean Combs, it is clear that Comcast has begun to act on the concerns that I, and the community of independent minority media professionals, raised throughout the course of the merger review. While these initial steps are commendable, I urge the company to continue to cultivate diversity among its executive leadership, showrunners, and other studio heads with "greenlighting" authority, all across its owned and operated media properties. In doing so, Comcast-NBC Universal would be a trailblazer within an industry that continues to struggle with diversity and inclusion. To that end, I offer heartfelt congratulations to the all of the new networks, led by diverse talent, who will now be in a position to extend opportunities to untapped talent, who without Comcast-NBC's voluntary commitment to support diversity, may not have had the chance to showcase their talents. It is also my sincere hope that Comcast-NBC will support these new ventures with the same channel placement, marketing, and promotional muscle they provide other channels on their systems, and that other companies will follow Comcast-NBC's lead in diversifying their pool of suppliers and content producers. ###
02.16.2012	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to Mr. Arthur T. Leahy, Chief Executive Officer of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA), urging him to seek TIGER funds for the construction of light rail stations in Leimert Park and Westchester on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor. The TIGER program is a nationwide competitive grant program that creates jobs by supporting investments in transportation infrastructure. In the letter, the Congresswoman announced that she is offering two amendments to H.R. 7, the transportation bill, which will be considered by the House this week. One amendment would add one billion in TIGER funds over the next two fiscal years. The second amendment would support the construction of stations on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor in Leimert Park and Westchester. The text of her letter follows: "I urge you to apply for federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grants to construct light rail stations in Leimert Park and Westchester during the application period for the current round of TIGER grants. Both of these communities deserve to have access to the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor, and TIGER grants would enable you to finance the construction of stations in these communities. "I am a strong supporter of the TIGER grant program, and I am committed to expanding the available funding for TIGER grants. I therefore submitted an amendment to H.R. 7 to provide one billion dollars nationwide in additional TIGER funding over the next two years. As you may know, H.R. 7 will be considered on the floor of the House of Representatives this week, and I will be working to convince my colleagues to pass my amendment. It is my hope that additional TIGER funding will empower local and regional transit agencies like LACMTA to improve transit access in the communities they serve. "I am also a strong supporter of the inclusion of light rail stations in Leimert Park and Westchester on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor. Consequently, I submitted an amendment to H.R. 7 to state that it is the Sense of Congress that the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor should include stations to serve both the Leimert Park community and the Westchester community. The Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor will improve air quality, relieve traffic congestion, and expand access to work, education, shopping, and entertainment opportunities throughout Los Angeles County. In order to maximize these benefits, it is important that all communities along the corridor have access to it. That is why it is so critical that the corridor include stations in Leimert Park and Westchester. "I urge you to include light rail stations in both Leimert Park and Westchester in the plans for the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor and seek TIGER funding for their construction. I look forward to working with you to ensure that this corridor receives strong federal support and serves all of the communities in the Crenshaw/LAX area." ###
02.09.2012	Today, Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan and Attorney General Eric Holder announced an historic settlement between 49 state attorneys general and 5 major mortgage servicers regarding allegations of servicing and foreclosure fraud. Today marks an important milestone in a struggle many of us have been engaged in for the last 5 years: the fight to bring justice to millions of American homeowners and accountability to our nation's mortgage servicers. With today's settlement announcement between major mortgage servicers, state attorneys general, and the federal government, we are now seeing the first serious effort to impose national mortgage servicing standards since the start of the foreclosure crisis. These process changes will not only take the obvious step of stopping illegal practices, but will also institute process changes that provide borrowers with a basic right of due process as they try to negotiate a loan modification. As someone who first introduced mortgage servicing reform legislation in 2008, and has been dutifully fighting for national standards over the ensuing years, I applaud these long-overdue improvements. I will continue to fight to codify servicer reform, so that we can effect systemic change that lasts beyond the expiration date of this settlement. With regard to the settlement figure of $26 billion, I'm disappointed that the amount of principal reduction and funding to foreclosure relief programs doesn't begin to equal the value of the harms caused. In California alone, about one million foreclosures have hit since 2008. More than 30 percent of California homeowners owe more on their homes than they're worth, to the tune of about $93,000 a piece. To address all the negative equity in California, the settlement would have to provide $214 billion to our state alone. Moreover, we know that mortgage servicers have saved billions of dollars since the start of the housing crisis by deliberating under-resourcing their customer service operations. The result has created billions in wrongful profits for the banks, and a nightmare for American homeowners. I believe that the settlement figure announced today should have been larger, and hope that efforts by the mortgage-backed securities task force will continue to bring relief to homeowners. Though I believe that the settlement figure ought to have been larger given the scale of the abuses, I must applaud Attorney General Kamala Harris for standing firm, and ensuring that California received a share of the settlement that's commensurate with the damage done in our state. I also applaud HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan and Attorney General Eric Holder for their leadership on this issue and their commitment to helping America's homeowners. I am also pleased that the settlement brings some justice to our nation's servicemembers and veterans, ensuring that mortgage servicers will pay hefty fines for wrongful foreclosure or for charging excessive interest rates. But it is also important to keep in mind that each violation of Servicemembers Civil Relief Act represents a criminal misdemeanor offense which is punishable by a sentence of up to one year of imprisonment. I hope that the Department of Justice and the new mortgage-backed securities task force make pursuing these criminal offenses their first priority. It's important to note that the settlement will only be as strong as the enforcement power behind it. We all remember the 2008 Countrywide settlement, and the bank's lack of compliance with that agreement. The Treasury Department announced in December that at least one servicer is still failing to comply with HAMP requirements. Moreover, previous efforts by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve to crack down on mortgage servicer abuses have been tainted by weak provisions that allowed servicers to hire their own investigators. We must have constant, real-time, and unforgiving enforcement of every word of this settlement, or the public will continue to lose confidence in the institutions of government meant to protect them. Finally, I should note that this settlement doesn't cover loans held by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac, representing 60% of the mortgage market. I will continue pressing Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director DeMarco to stop impeding progress on our housing recovery, and will continue to advocate for my bill, H.R. 3841, the Principal Reduction Act of 2012, which would compel Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce principal on mortgages that they own or guarantee.
02.08.2012	Yesterday, Rep. Waters introduced H.R. 3916, the Protecting Post Offices Act, which would reduce the operating costs of the US Postal Service to provide continued service in urban and rural communities and save 28,000 American jobs. She is joined by American Postal Workers Union, AFL-CIO in support of this much needed legislation to stabilize the US Postal Service. In 2011, USPS was expected to post a deficit in excess of $8 billion. "It has become clear that the Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act (PAEA) has had an adverse impact on Postal Service's finances preventing them from becoming profitable once again. In the current environment of reduced mail volumes, inability to raise prices and the exceptional pre-funding payments into the Retiree Health Benefits Fund, the US Postal Service (USPS) has experienced incredible loss." The Protecting Post Offices Act would replace mandated Retiree Health Benefits Fund pre-funding amounts with actuary numbers for payment starting in 2012. H.R. 3916 would also prevent the closure of post offices in high poverty and unemployment areas, saving inner city and rural post offices from closure and preventing the loss of 28,000 letter carrier and postal worker jobs. "The pre-funding requirements and restrictions on providing non-postal services mandated by PAEA has placed USPS in a very compromising position hampering it's ability them to generate profits and stay competitive in this tough economy. As a result of this, USPS is slated to close 667 post offices across the nation, putting 28,000 Americans in jeopardy of losing their jobs. Our urban and rural communities have been hit the hardest by joblessness. We must do all we can to prevent further job loss in America." H.R. 3916 will also allow USPS to provide non-postal services, assisting them in revamping their business plan to increase profits and functionality of local post offices. Lastly, this bill will allow the Post Master General to change rates for market-dominant products without the approval of the Postal Regulatory Committee, allowing them to stay competitive with other mail servicing companies like FedEx and UPS. "While the postage stamp remains one of America's best bargains, it comes at a significant cost to the US Postal Service. This loss in profits has not only put the American postal workers in danger, it has also placed residents in urban and rural areas in jeopardy of losing reliable daily postal services, possibly missing out on time sensitive items like medication. I am confident that through the passage of this piece of legislation we will not only protect the American postal worker but assist in making the US Postal Service profitable again by keeping local post offices open, and increasing their functionality to better serve their communities." ###
02.07.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world through increased awareness, screening, research, treatment, and funding, released the following statement today in recognition of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: "Today is National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. This day is a day to remember the terrible toll that HIV and AIDS have had on African Americans. But it is also a day to recognize the progress that has been made improving awareness about HIV/AIDS and expanding access to HIV/AIDS testing and treatment among African Americans and indeed all Americans, and to dedicate ourselves to continuing to fight this epidemic and work for the day when no one will have to live with – or die from – this terrible disease. "HIV/AIDS has had a devastating impact on African Americans. There are approximately 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and more than one-half million of them are black. Blacks represent 44% of new HIV infections and 57% of AIDS-related deaths. Black women represent an astonishing 64% of new AIDS diagnoses among women, and black teenagers represent 68% of new AIDS diagnoses among teenagers. AIDS was the 4th leading cause of death for black men and the 3rd leading cause of death for black women ages 25-44 in 2007. Blacks are 8 times more likely to become infected with HIV than whites and 9 times more likely to be diagnosed with AIDS than whites. Blacks have the highest rate of new HIV infections and new AIDS diagnoses of any racial group. About 2% of African Americans today are HIV positive. "Despite these statistics, there are reasons for hope. Leadership in the black community has made African Americans more aware of the problem. The Kaiser Family Foundation reports that about one in five African Americans surveyed name HIV/AIDS as the number one health problem in the United States. "I have worked hard as a member of the Congressional Black Caucus to advance policies to address the AIDS crisis in the black community. The Minority AIDS Initiative, which I developed in 1998 when I was chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, has strengthened the ability of the black community and other minority communities to respond to the epidemic. Every year, I circulate request letters to leaders of the House Appropriations Committee in support of funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative. Last year, 56 concerned Members of Congress signed my letters. Because of our efforts, the Minority AIDS Initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. That is despite the prevailing atmosphere of fiscal austerity. "Two months ago, on World AIDS Day, I reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 3547). This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in Federal prisons. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act has been passed twice by the House of Representatives, once in 2007 and once in 2009. Furthermore, while the Senate has yet to pass this bill and send it to the President's desk, the bill has focused attention on the problem of HIV/AIDS in our nation's prisons. As a result, the President's National HIV/AIDS Strategy, which was released in 2010, requires the Bureau of Prisons to take steps to address the effects of HIV/AIDS within the prison population. "Forward-looking Federal policies and programs supported by members of the Congressional Black Caucus have slowed down the spread of HIV and improved our nation's ability to treat people with AIDS of all racial and ethnic groups. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) promote awareness and prevention and encourage HIV testing to identify those who are infected. Advances in research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), together with HIV/AIDS treatment programs such as the Ryan White program and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), have allowed people living with HIV/AIDS to live longer and more productive lives. "The passage of the Affordable Care Act has begun the process of reforming our nation's health system so that all Americans will have access to the health care they need. This law is especially important for people living with HIV/AIDS, many of whom have been denied health insurance coverage because their infection is considered a pre-existing condition by insurance companies. Thanks to the passage of the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies can no longer deny coverage to children living with HIV/AIDS. Beginning in 2014, adults living with HIV/AIDS will also have this protection. "Unfortunately, the progress we have made against this devastating disease is in grave danger of being reversed. Last year, the House of Representatives passed legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act and allow health insurance companies to continue to deny coverage to Americans living with HIV/AIDS. Fortunately, the Senate has shown no interest in this ill-advised legislation. Meanwhile, Congress has been debating drastic reductions in funding for critical public health and HIV/AIDS programs like Medicare, Medicaid, NIH research, CDC prevention programs, Ryan White and ADAP. "I call upon my friends and colleagues in the black community to remain vigilant in fighting this dreadful disease. And I call upon my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus and indeed all of my colleagues in Congress to protect Medicare and Medicaid; maintain funding for critical HIV/AIDS programs; and support full implementation of the Affordable Care Act. "Each of us must do everything in our power to bring about a world without AIDS." ### Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several other initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. Preventing the spread of AIDS: Congresswoman Waters reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 3547), which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to the adjournment of the 111th Congress. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. The bill is cosponsored by 36 of her colleagues. 2. Promoting HIV screening: On November 17, 2011, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, urging her to include routine annual screening for HIV in the Essential Health Benefits package under the Affordable Care Act. About 20% of persons living with HIV/AIDS in the United States do not know they are infected. Routine HIV screening would allow them to learn of their status and begin treatment. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. 3. Holding health insurance plans accountable: Congresswoman Waters plans to reintroduce the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137 in the 111th Congress). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. This bill had 46 cosponsors representing both political parties in the 111th Congress. 4. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, which are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. On May 20, 2011, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2012 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 56 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. The Initiative received $416 million in fiscal year 2012, the same amount as in fiscal year 2011 and more than any previous year. 5. Encouraging involvement by clinicians: Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution (H.Res. 362) in honor of the fourth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. The resolution urges doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. This resolution was cosponsored by 24 of her colleagues in Congress.
02.03.2012	Today, Congresswoman Waters' sent a letter to the Washington Post Company's CEO, Donald E. Graham, regarding the recent suspension of the Dental Assistant program at their Kaplan College's campus in Charlotte, North Carolina. The Dental Assistant program was suspended following allegations that its officials lied to students about the credentials they'd receive after graduating. As a result of this outcry, students were refunded their full tuition and Kaplan forfeited their license to operate this program on their Charlotte campus. The text of this letter is below: February 3, 2012 Donald E. Graham Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Washington Post Company 1150 15th Street, NW Washington, DC 20071 Dear Mr. Graham, I am pleased that you and your company have acknowledged the inadequacies in your dental assistant program at the Charlotte, North Carolina campus of Kaplan College and agreed that students were not receiving the proper credentials needed to pursue a career in dental assistance upon graduation. Many bad actors within the for-profit industry have continuously done students and taxpayers a disservice by failing to properly organize and develop credible programs and curriculums that result in real job and career opportunities. Although your institution does not support gainful employment, this is a prime example of why the gainful employment regulation is so important. Gainful employment not only informs students about exploitative programs prior to enrollment, it also mandates proprietary institutions to collect data and assess their individual programs in order to identify programmatic weaknesses and strengths. I have long been a strong critic of the for-profit industry and its inability to adequately educate students and prepare them for careers that will allow them to pay back their hefty student loan debt. For decades, millions of students across the country have been given false hopes and accumulated massive amounts of debt as a result of the private postsecondary industry further hindering their ability to make a better life for themselves and their families. I will continue to fight against any and all so called “educational programs” that exploit and mislead those who simply want a good education and a better life. It is my hope that other institutions with similar situations like the one at your Charlotte campus will follow your lead by surrendering their licenses for ineffective programs and refund the tuition of affected students. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress
02.02.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) delivered the following statement from the House floor yesterday, during debate on H.R. 1173, House Republicans’ bill to repeal the CLASS Act, a long-term care program that was established by the Affordable Care Act. The Congresswoman joined her colleagues in the Congressional Progressive Caucus during a mini-filibuster to expose Republican efforts to dismantle health care reform: “Mr. Chairman and Members, this bill is just another attempt to dismantle health care reform. Last year, House Republicans passed H.R. 2 to repeal the entire Affordable Care Act. The landmark health care reform law that was enacted almost 2 years ago is what I’m referring to. “The Affordable Care Act has already made a difference in the lives of millions of Americans. Let me just recount for the Members of this House what the Affordable Care Act has done and is doing. It prevents insurance companies from dropping people because they get sick. It prevents insurance companies from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions. It allows young adults to remain on their parents’ health insurance until they turn 26. It provides free preventive care to seniors under Medicare. It is phasing out the “doughnut hole” and helping seniors obtain affordable prescription drugs. Finally, it provides tax credits to help small businesses purchase health insurance for their employees. “When H.R. 2 failed to move in the Senate, House Republicans began passing bills to dismantle the Affordable Care Act piece by piece and inch by inch. They passed H.R. 1213, which repeals funding for the organization of health benefit exchanges, marketplaces where American families will be able to choose an affordable health care plan. They passed H.R. 1214, which repeals funding for the construction of school-based health clinics. They passed H.R. 1216, which repeals funding for the training of primary care physicians. “Now they’re trying to repeal the CLASS Act. The CLASS Act is the Community Living Assistance Services and Supports Act, and it establishes a program to facilitate access to long-term health care services. Who can be against that? The CLASS Act is a voluntary program to provide participants with a cash benefit that can be used to purchase a variety of long-term care services, such as home modifications, accessible transportation, personal assistance services, homemaker services, respite care, home health aides, and nursing support. The program would be funded entirely by the premiums paid by those who choose to participate. “House Republicans’ CLASS Act repeal also repeals funding for the National Clearinghouse for Long-Term Health Information. The clearinghouse provides online information about long-term care costs and planning options. “Our Nation is indeed facing a long-term health crisis. People are living longer. As a result, there’s a growing need for long-term care for elderly and disabled Americans. There are 10 million people who need long-term care in the United States today. That number is expected to grow to 15 million in the year 2020. There are an estimated 52 million unpaid caregivers providing long-term care services in American homes today. American families are paying more than $50 billion every year on out-of-pocket expenses for long-term care. These families need options, and they need our support. “The CLASS Act does not need to be repealed. If House Republicans believe this program should be fixed, then they should try to fix it. However, they have not even attempted to improve this program or develop other options to make long-term care services available to American families who need them. “It is long past due for House Republicans to stop trying to dismantle health care reform and start working with us in a constructive, bipartisan manner to improve our Nation’s health system. I would urge my colleagues to oppose this bill and support solutions to America’s long-term care crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today is precisely what Occupy Wall Street was all about. It’s about what are we going to do to deal with that 99 percent out there who simply need some safety nets that their government could easily assist with. “Health care is a problem in this country. Not everyone can afford it, and I would ask my colleagues to take the politics out of this issue. The American public needs this health care reform. And the Occupy Wall Street people who are out there simply sent a message to say, okay, America, stop being simply on the side of the 1 percent, look at the 99 percent. I would urge my colleagues to do that.” ###
02.01.2012	Today, Rep. Waters released the following statement in response to President Obama's plan to help responsible homeowners and heal the housing mark. "I think the plan announced by the President today has a lot of potential to help homeowners and our broader housing market. Allowing homeowners to refinance into FHA and improving the refinance process for those with GSE-backed loans, can result in savings for homeowners which they could use to rebuild equity or to stimulate consumer spending. However, I must note that while refinancing is helpful for a certain segment of borrowers, principal reduction remains the most effective means to assist underwater borrowers. It's the only approach that hasn't been tried yet and I call on the administration to fully implement a principal reduction program. Yesterday, I introduced legislation, H.R. 3841, the Principal Reduction Act, to require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce principal on mortgages they own or guarantee. I hope that this legislation gets a serious look in Congress. I'd also like to commend the President for proposing a homeowners' bill of rights, which includes provisions similar to legislation I introduced last year, H.R. 1567, the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act. It's time for Congress to focus on solving the housing crisis and I call on my Republican colleagues to stand behind America's homeowners through this proposal."
02.01.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today expressed her sorrow over the death of Don Cornelius, African-American television show host and producer. He was 75 years old. "I am deeply saddened by the passing of my dear friend Don Cornelius. Don was the brilliant mind that founded Soul Train, the African-American counterpart to American Bandstand, which created the platform for African-American youth and artists to display their talent on the national stage," said Congresswoman Waters. Born in Chicago, Don Cornelius was originally a journalist inspired by the civil rights movement. In the late 1960's Cornelius recognized that there was no television venue in the United States for soul music, and introduced many African-American musicians to a larger audience as a result of their appearances on Soul Train, a program that was both influential among African-Americans and popular with a wider audience. "Soul Train was responsible for exposing America to the true essence of Black culture through music, fashion and dance every week and continued to keep Americans glued to their televisions sets every weekend from 1971 to 2006. Serving as its host and executive producer, Don was responsible for catapulting the careers of countless acts that you and I continue to enjoy today," said the Congresswoman. As writer, producer, and host of Soul Train, Cornelius was instrumental in offering worldwide exposure to black musicians like James Brown, Aretha Franklin, and Michael Jackson, as well as creating opportunities for talented dancers that would presage subsequent television dance programs. Spike Lee described the program as an "urban music time capsule." Soul Train currently holds the honor of the longest, continuously running first-run syndicated program in television history. "In 2000, I had the pleasure of working with Don while organizing an extravaganza for the National Democratic Convention in Los Angeles. His role as Producer for this event was essential to its success and displayed stellar entertainment for the African-American community unlike anything that had been done before at the National Democratic Convention. I will forever be in debted to him for his vital role in the perpetuation and preservation of Black culture in America and making people proud to be Black. Don Cornelius was a great friend, genius and purveyor of Black culture and he will truly be missed," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
02.01.2012	Today, Rep. Waters introduced H.R. 3841, the Principal Reduction Act of 2012, which would require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce principal on loans that they own or guarantee. She was joined by eight Members of Congress in support of this much needed legislation to stabilize the housing market. One in four homeowners currently owe more on their home than it is worth. "I'm introducing this legislation not just to help homeowners, but to jumpstart our economy. With one in four homeowners owing more on their home than what it's worth, there's no question that negative equity is prolonging our economic crisis," Rep. Waters said. Negative equity is the primary driver of default and foreclosure, and is the primary factor driving the deterioration in household wealth during the recession. This negative equity is also limiting household mobility, since a household is often unable to sell their home when their debt exceeds the value of the house. Such limited mobility impedes a household's ability to move for a new job, and exacerbates unemployment. "There is a way to deal with negative equity—it's called principal reduction and numerous studies have shown that it works," Rep. Waters explained. Studies by the Federal Reserve Bank of NY and Laurie Goodman, mortgage analyst at Amherst Securities group, have confirmed this fact, and noted that principal reduction – or lowering the amount that homeowners' owe on their mortgages – is likely to provide the most successful type of loan modification. "The great thing about principal reduction is that it can actually save investors and taxpayers money," Rep. Waters continued. "It's more cost effective than allowing a home to go into foreclosure. It's simply a win-win for banks, investors, taxpayers, homeowners, and our communities." Foreclosed homes are often sold to new buyers for substantially less than the value of the unpaid principal balance on the mortgage. For example, the foreclosed properties Fannie Mae sold in the third quarter of 2011 netted an average 56 percent of the unpaid principal balance on the underlying mortgage. By reducing principal instead of letting the home be sold at a loss through foreclosure, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the enterprises) could generate substantial savings for America's taxpayers. William Dudley, President and CEO of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, recently noted that "investment firms that purchase delinquent mortgages routinely reduce principal in order to maximize value on these loans. It would make sense for Fannie and Freddie to do this as well in order to minimize loss of value on the delinquent loans they guarantee." "Despite these clear benefits of principal reduction," Rep. Waters said, "Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which own or guarantee $1 trillion in underwater mortgages, have been barred by their conservator from reducing principal, even though principal reduction is net present value positive for the enterprises and would actually save taxpayers money over the long-term." Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward DeMarco, in his capacity as conservator of the enterprises, has publically indicated that he will not direct the enterprises to reduce principal on mortgages they own or guarantee. Furthermore, he has indicated that if principal reduction is a priority for Congress, then Congress should pass legislation to that effect. "Since FHFA and the Administration need action from Congress," Rep. Waters stated, "I'm more than willing to give them the legislation they need to help America's homeowners and our struggling economy." Rep. Waters' bill would require FHFA to direct Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce principal on mortgages they own or guarantee. Specifically the bill would require Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to reduce principal to a 90 percent loan-to-value ratio. It would protect taxpayers by requiring shared appreciation of one-third of the profits if the home is sold, and would allow the enterprises to recapture any reduced funds if the loan subsequently defaults and enters foreclosure. "This legislation is long overdue," Rep. Waters said. "I hope that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle will get behind this commonsense, taxpayer saving legislation so that we can all work together to give America's homeowners the help they've been asking Congress for." ###
01.25.2012	Yesterday, the House Judiciary Committee approved H.R. 1433, "The Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2011." Introduced by Congressman James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) and Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), the legislation is intended to protect private property owners and communities from eminent domain abuse, and restore property rights that the Supreme Court changed in the controversial case, Kelo v. City of New London. In Kelo, the Court upheld the ability of the State and Federal government to transfer privately-owned property against the wishes of the owner to a large corporation, declaring that the resulting economic development would produce benefits to the community. The Court's ruling raised serious concerns that the government could use its power to seize private property from individual private citizens for the benefit of more powerful, better connected, wealthier private parties. The case sparked widespread outrage and resulted in unlikely political alliances of both conservative Republicans – concerned about case's constitutional implications and impact on due process – and progressive Democrats, who decried eminent domain abuse among local governments and private developers who systematically used the law to uproot vulnerable Americans from their homes and communities. "Unfortunately, economic development condemnations have all too often been used by powerful interest groups to acquire land at the expense of the poor and politically weak," Rep. Waters said. "And few policies have done more to destroy communities and opportunities for minorities than eminent domain. Some 3 to 4 million Americans, most of them ethnic minorities, have been forcibly displaced from their homes as a result of urban renewal takings since World War II. While eminent domain has always had a disproportionate impact on the constitutional rights of minorities, most of the public didn't notice the alarming trends until the Supreme Court's controversial ruling." The Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2011 will restore the property rights of all Americans and prevent the federal government or any authority of the federal government from using economic development as a justification for exercising its power of eminent domain. The bill will also discourage states and localities from abusing their eminent domain power by denying states or localities that commit such abuse all federal economic development funds for a period of two years. "The legislation I introduced with Rep. Sensenbrenner restores fairness and protects every American citizen from being deprived of a fundamental right by a powerful government," Rep Waters explained. "As a progressive Democrat, while I do not always agree with Congressman Sensenbrenner, who is a conservative Republican, we both feel very strongly about the principles at stake. The abuse of eminent domain at the expense of individual property owners is not what our founders intended." Although 44 states have enacted new laws limiting eminent domain power in the years since Kelo, many of the new laws contain loopholes that make them easy to circumvent. For example, 19 states have forbidden takings for "economic development" but continue to permit the exact same kinds of condemnations under the guise of alleviating blight. These laws define blight so broadly that properties in any number of neighborhoods could be subject to condemnation. "One of the basic Constitutional functions of American government is the protection of private property rights," Rep. Waters stated. "H.R. 1433 will protect homes, communities, churches, and other privately-owned property from predatory takings under the guise of ‘economic development.' Private developers and local governments that have a genuine project should be able to acquire the land or property they need through legitimate, voluntary purchases. If the project really is more valuable than the current use of the same land, then they should be willing to negotiate with property owners who are willing to sell. Otherwise, the federal government must protect the rights of private property owners to be secure in their own homes and communities." Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced this legislation as H.R. 1855 during the 111th Congress; H.R. 3053 during the 110th Congress; and both bills is substantially similar to H.R. 4128, legislation that passed the House in the 109th Congress by an overwhelming vote of 376-38 but was never enacted. ###
01.25.2012	Washington – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-California), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, will host a briefing tomorrow entitled, "Who Runs Haiti? A Discussion of Governance, Political Power, and Democracy in Haiti, Two Years After the Earthquake." The event will be cosponsored by Congresswoman Barbara Lee (D-California) and feature several prominent speakers from both Haiti and the United States. WHO: Congresswoman Maxine Waters, Member of Congres Thomas C. Adams, Haiti Special Coordinator, U.S. Department of State Minister Rene Magloire, Vice-President, Haitian Presidential Commission on Justice Reform, and former Minister of Justice (1995-96, 2006-2008) Brian Concannon, Director, Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti (IJDH) Mark Weisbrot, Co-Director, Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR) Marguerite Salomon, Haitian grassroots activist and leader of a Haitian women's organization Peter Sollis, Senior Advisor in the Haiti Response Group, Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) Michelle Karshan, Founder and Director, Alternative Chance WHAT: Briefing on "Who Runs Haiti? A Discussion of Governance, Political Power, and Democracy in Haiti, Two Years After the Earthquake." WHEN: Wednesday, January 25, 2012, 10:30 AM – 12:30 PM WHERE: 2456 Rayburn Building, U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, DC. WHY: Stable, effective and democratic governance is essential for Haiti's recovery and development following the devastating 2010 earthquake. This briefing will examine Haiti's political process, including the roles of the President, the Prime Minister, and members of Parliament; the various political parties in Parliament and who they represent; and the influence of various interest groups and stakeholders, including the wealthy elites, the business sector, and the impoverished majority. Panelists will also discuss proposals for judicial reform, human rights issues, and the opportunities and challenges facing grassroots activists. ### To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here.
01.13.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, issued the following statement today to mark the second anniversary of the deadly 7.0 magnitude earthquake in Haiti: "Two years ago today, Haiti was hit by a devastating earthquake that killed more than 300,000 people and displaced more than 1.5 million people. The main port, the presidential palace, the parliament, the majority of ministry buildings, more than 50 hospitals and health centers, 1300 educational institutions, and more than 105,000 homes were left in ruins. The earthquake left millions of people in the Western Hemisphere's poorest country living in absolutely horrific conditions. "Immediately following the earthquake, there was an outpouring of sympathy from people in the United States and around the world who wanted to help the Haitian people survive, recover, and rebuild. Numerous Americans opened their hearts and their wallets to help. I introduced H.R. 4573, the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act, which was signed into law by President Obama three months after the earthquake. This law led to the cancellation of approximately $828 million of Haiti's debts, freeing up resources for the Government of Haiti to use for earthquake recovery efforts. The United Nations held a donors' conference, which I attended, and the international community pledged a total of $9.9 billion in reconstruction funds – including $5.3 billion for the first two years. "Yet two years later, the U.N. Special Envoy for Haiti reported that less than 53% of the funds pledged at the U.N. donors' conference has been disbursed. Moreover, the money that has been disbursed has not made a visible impact upon the lives of the Haitian people. According to the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), over one half million people are still living in tent camps. There is a critical need for housing and basic infrastructure. A deadly outbreak of cholera has already killed approximately 7,000 people and continues to infect people in many parts of the country. "Many people in Haiti have criticized the international community for not being forthcoming about the use of international assistance funds. Meanwhile, many people in the international community blame the Government of Haiti for failing to effectively coordinate the delivery of international assistance. "I am in awe of the strength and resiliency of the Haitian people. We owe it to them to stand by them and make certain that the aid that was promised is actually delivered. We also owe it to them to make certain our assistance reaches the people who need it most. "I call upon the Government of the United States and other donor governments to keep their promises to the Haitian people. I also call upon the Government of Haiti to make certain its plan for Haiti's recovery and development takes into consideration all of the challenges facing the Haitian people. It is long past time to remove the rubble from the streets, move people out of tents and into permanent housing, build Haiti's infrastructure, and respond to the cholera outbreak with the urgency it deserves." ### To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here.
01.04.2012	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today released the following statement regarding President Obama's recess appointment of Richard Cordray as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau: "I applaud President Obama for today using his executive power to overcome Republican obstructionism and appoint Richard Cordray, the former Attorney General of Ohio, as Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The recent financial crisis demonstrated that strong protections against predatory financial products were needed to empower consumers, and prevent a continuation of the unsound lending practices that led to the 2008 subprime meltdown. That's why, under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, Democrats in the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate worked with President Obama, and advocates like Elizabeth Warren, to create the CFPB, an agency whose sole mission is to protect consumers from abuses by banks and by non-bank financial institutions like payday lenders, check cashers, non-bank mortgage originators and debt collectors. I was proud to serve on the conference committee that created Dodd-Frank, and have been increasingly frustrated by Senate Republicans' attempts to subvert the legislation by blocking a vote on the nomination of Mr. Cordray. No one has disputed Mr. Cordray's expertise in consumer protection or his qualifications to head the CFPB. What's clear is that Senate Republicans have blocked a vote on his nomination simply because they oppose the creation of the CFPB. In fact, in addition to Senate filibusters against Mr. Cordray, Republicans in the House of Representatives have passed legislation to gut the CFPB and strip it of key powers that help consumers. Middle-class families, seniors, students and veterans deserve clear rules of the road when they're in the market for financial products like credit cards or home loans. The CFPB, with its new director Mr. Cordray, will prevent a continuation of the practices that led to the destruction of trillions of dollars of wealth and the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. I applaud President Obama for standing up for the middle-class and using his recess appointment power to name Mr. Cordray as Director of the CFPB. I will continue to defend the CFPB against Republican attacks that seek to limit both the CFPB's powers and its funding." ###
12.22.2011	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters introduced the "Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act," which would protect student veterans from bad actors within the for-profit college industry. The bill would include veterans' benefits under the 90/10 rule of the Higher Education Act of 1965, thereby removing an incentive for unscrupulous actors in the for-profit education industry to exploit the nation's veterans. The 90/10 rule requires for-profit colleges to receive at least 10 percent of their revenue from nonfederal sources and up to 90 percent from federal sources to be eligible to receive federal student aid. Currently, G.I. bill benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs and Defense do not technically count under the 90 percent category, under the 90/10 rule of the Higher Education Act of 1965, allowing schools to count the money toward the non-federal 10 percent of revenues. "This "loophole" has caused a free for all within the for-profit college industry resulting in the direction of a substantial amount of staff, time and resources towards recruiting veterans to their institutions," Rep. Waters said. "With an influx of our veterans coming home, we must do what we can to protect them from this predatory behavior by some of the bad actors within this industry." An analysis by the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions found that in the 2009-2011 award year, for-profit schools collected more than one third of Post-9/11 G.I. bill benefits yet they only educate a quarter of our veteran students. In the first two years of the Post 9/11 G.I. benefits bill disbursements, the eight top recipients were for-profit instructions and they received collectively a grand total of $846 million in federal tax-payer financed student grants during the 2009-2011 award year. "With the increase of federal dollars allotted to fund veteran higher education programs, veterans have naturally become an attractive recruit for some for-profit colleges." said Rep. Waters. According to internal documents from major publically-traded for-profit institutions, these schools have employed guerilla-like recruitment tactics designed to enroll veterans, active-duty military personnel and dependents and capitalize on billions in veteran education benefit dollars. Once enrolled, these men and women often do not receive the quality education they were promised and graduate without the skills or education they need in order to transition from military to civilian life. Overall, only 22 percent of all first-time, full-time students at for profit-colleges actually complete their bachelors' degrees, compared with 55 percent at public institutions and 65 percent at nonprofit schools, according to the National Center for Education Statistics. "I believe that we must do all we can to ensure that our veterans receive a quality education. My bill would protect our veterans, military-personnel, their families and tax-payers from the predatory practices that some for-profit institutions use simply to obtain higher profits and to appease investors," Rep. Waters said. The Ensuring Quality Education for Veterans Act would also require the Secretary of Education to notify the Secretary of Defense and Veteran Affairs when a proprietary institution fails to meet requirements within the 90/10 rule and therefore becomes ineligible to participate in federal defense and veteran affairs educational assistance programs until they come back into compliance. ###
12.14.2011	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to Mr. Arthur T. Leahy, Chief Executive Officer of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA), urging him to include a light rail station in Westchester in the plans for the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor and seek federal funding for its construction. The text of her letter follows: "I write to thank you for applying for a federal Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant to construct a light rail station on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor in Leimert Park and to urge you to apply for an additional TIGER grant or other appropriate federal funding to construct a station to serve the people of Westchester. "As you know, the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor will serve several communities in my congressional district. This light rail corridor will improve air quality and relieve traffic congestion in and around my district, and it will provide my constituents easier access to work, school, shopping, entertainment, and everything else Los Angeles has to offer. However, in order to maximize the benefits of the corridor, it is important that all communities along the corridor have access to it. That is why I support the inclusion of both a Leimert Park station and a Westchester station. "A Westchester station on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor is very important to my constituents. Without a Westchester station, there will be no stop on this corridor between the Florence/La Brea station and the Aviation/Century station – a distance of almost three miles. Without a place to board between these two stations, Westchester residents will be highly dissuaded from using the line. The line would also be inconvenient for students who attend Loyola Marymount University and Westchester High School. Westchester residents are well aware of their contributions to transit projects throughout Los Angeles County through Measure R and deserve convenient pedestrian access to light rail in their own community. "A Westchester station would also be important for the 700 military veterans who will be residents of the U.S. Vets facility now under construction at 733 S. Hindry Ave. in Inglewood. Most of these veterans will need to rely on public transportation, and it will be extremely difficult for them to walk all the way to Century Boulevard to board a train. This residential facility is important to our returning servicemen and women as they face challenges in their transition to civilian life, and it deserves as much support as the community can provide. "I urge you to include a light rail station in Westchester in the plans for the Crenshaw/ LAX Transit Corridor and seek federal funding for its construction. I look forward to working with you to ensure that this corridor receives strong federal support and serves all of the communities in the Crenshaw/LAX area." ###
12.01.2011	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS through increased awareness, testing, treatment, and funding, reintroduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, in honor of World AIDS Day. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment for inmates in federal prisons. The bill has the support of 33 original cosponsors. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other people in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429 in the 111th Congress) was passed by the House of Representatives during the 111th Congress by voice vote. However, the Senate did not complete action on the bill prior to adjournment. "AIDS is spreading in our nation's jails and prisons. The Department of Justice reported last year that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons is 2.5 times the rate in the general population. We need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society. That includes our nation's prison system," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several other initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. Promoting HIV screening: On November 17, 2011, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, urging her to include routine annual screening for HIV in the Essential Health Benefits package under the Affordable Care Act. About 20% of persons living with HIV/AIDS in the United States do not know they are infected. Routine HIV screening would allow them to learn of their status and begin treatment. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. 2. Holding health insurance plans accountable: Congresswoman Waters plans to reintroduce the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137 in the 111th Congress). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. This bill had 46 cosponsors representing both political parties in the 111th Congress. 3. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, which are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. On May 20, 2011, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2012 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources necessary to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 56 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter 4. Encouraging involvement by clinicians: On July 21, 2011, Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution, H.Res. 362, in honor of the fourth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. The resolution urges doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. This resolution was cosponsored by 24 of her colleagues in Congress. ###
11.30.2011	Today, a new report from the U.S. Department of Education documents that schools serving low-income students are being shortchanged because school districts across the country are inequitably distributing their state and local funds. The analysis of new data on 2008-09 school-level expenditures shows that many high-poverty schools receive less than their fair share of state and local funding, leaving students in high-poverty schools with fewer resources than schools attended by their wealthier peers. Below is Congresswoman Waters' statement regarding the report's findings: "Today's release of the Department of Education's report regarding the equal disbursement of funds into our nation's Title I schools' is proof of that there are clear and apparent issues within our nation's public school system. Federal assistance provided through Title I is intended to provide additional resources to low-income high-poverty area schools. Unfortunately this report finds the contrary and more than 40 percent of Title I schools are receiving an unequal amount of funds for educational resources than more affluent schools within the same school district by cities and state governments. In the City of Los Angeles, one of the largest school districts in the United States, schools that were below the 100 percent threshold had an average school poverty rate of 72 percent which is almost four times the average for non-Title I schools in the district (22 percent). The low-spending Title I schools in Los Angeles have an average per-pupil expenditure of 14 percent below the average for non-Title I schools ($2,872 vs. $3,329). This is a 227 percent difference in per-pupil funding at schools with high-poverty low-income student population. This data clearly shows that students in Title I and high-poverty areas are not getting a fair shake when it comes to quality education and adequate resources unlike their counterparts in non-Title I and low-poverty areas. The findings of this report underscore the need for Congress to work together to ensure that low-spending Title I and higher-poverty schools are raised up to the average funding levels found in more advantaged schools. It is extremely vital for Title I funds go to the most deserving schools to ensure that such schools have the level of resources needed to help address the greater challenges that they face. If Title I schools do not receive adequate state and local funding comparable to other schools within the same district, then the federal investment we appropriate into Title I will not serve it's legislative purpose. When addressing a defective mechanism within our nation's public education system, which is responsible for shutting out millions of students from obtaining an adequate education, cost should not be an issue. Unfortunately, some will argue the feasibility of rectifying these inequities. The correction of this disparity would secure a large increase in funding for low-spending, high-need schools. I would like to thank the Obama Administration for finally putting data behind an assumption that we've known and had for many years. Now that we have the data to support these assumptions, I implore my colleagues to join me in ensuring that Title I funds meet the educational needs of students it was legislated to assist." ### Below is an overview of the report's findings: An estimated 18 to 28 percent of Title I districts would not be in compliance with an expenditures-based comparability requirement, depending on the specifications of the requirement. On average, the estimated cost of complying with an expenditures-based comparability requirement amounts to just 1 to 4 percent of school-level expenditures in affected districts. Low-spending Title I schools and higher-poverty schools would see their per-pupil expenditures rise by an average of 4 to 15 percent. Low-spending schools that would benefit from expenditures-based comparability have much higher poverty rates than other schools in their districts.
11.28.2011	On November 23, 2011, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood supporting the construction of a light rail station in Leimert Park on the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor and urging him to provide a federal grant to Los Angeles County to fund its construction. The text of her letter follows: "I write to express my support for the application of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LACMTA) for a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant for the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor and to add my voice in strong support for the construction of a light rail station on this corridor in Leimert Park. "The Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor is a light rail project that will extend from Exposition Boulevard in the north to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and the Green Line in the south, serving several communities in my congressional district. This corridor will improve air quality and relieve traffic congestion in and around my district, and it will provide my constituents easier access to work, school, shopping, entertainment, and everything else Los Angeles has to offer. The TIGER grant will be used to add an additional underground station on the corridor in Leimert Park at Crenshaw Boulevard and Vernon Avenue and to construct an underground section of the corridor between Exposition Boulevard and 39th Street. "It is critical that the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor include a station in Leimert Park. Leimert Park is a historically significant focal point of African American culture in Los Angeles. Home to art galleries, bookstores, live music, theater, ethnic clothing stores, and African artifacts, it is one of the rich cultural destinations of Southern California. Throughout the year, the merchants and residents of Leimert Park stage jazz festivals, book fairs, farmer's markets, poetry readings, celebrations of Louisiana culture, and African drummers on Sunday afternoons. Through good times and economic downturns, Leimert Park has maintained its ability to attract both residents and tourists alike. A light rail station in Leimert Park will ease traffic congestion, stimulate the local economy, and facilitate access for residents and tourists who are drawn to the economic and cultural opportunities of this vibrant community. "I appreciate your consideration of LACMTA's application for a TIGER grant for the enhancement of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor and the construction of a station in Leimert Park. If you have any questions, feel free to contact me or Ms. Kathleen Sengstock, my Senior Legislative Assistant, at (202) 225-2201." ###
11.28.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world through increased awareness, screening, research, treatment, and funding, released the following statement today in recognition of National Latino AIDS Awareness Day: "Tomorrow is National Latino AIDS Awareness Day. This day is a time to remember the devastating impact that HIV and AIDS have had on Latinos in the United States. But it is also a time to recognize the progress that has been made improving awareness about HIV/AIDS and expanding access to HIV/AIDS testing and treatment among Latino Americans and indeed all Americans, and to dedicate ourselves to continuing to fight this epidemic and work for the day when no one will have to live with – or die from – this terrible disease. "HIV/AIDS has had a disproportionate impact on Latinos in the United States. There are approximately 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and more than 205,000 are Latinos. Latinos account for 20% of new HIV infections and 21% of new AIDS diagnoses, despite the fact that only 16% of the population is Latino. Young people in the Latino community have been particularly impacted. Latino teenagers aged 13-19 account for 21% of new AIDS diagnoses among teenagers, and Latino young adults aged 20-24 account for 20% of new AIDS diagnoses among people in the United States of this age group. HIV/AIDS was the sixth leading cause of death among both men and women aged 25-44 in the Latino community in 2007. "Considerable progress has been made in responding to the HIV/AIDS epidemic among all Americans affected by the disease. Forward-looking federal policies and programs have improved our nation's ability to prevent, diagnose and treat HIV/AIDS. The Minority AIDS Initiative, which I developed in 1998 when I was chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, has strengthened the ability of the Latino and other minority communities to respond to the epidemic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) promote awareness and prevention and encourage HIV testing to identify those who are infected. Advances in research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), together with HIV/AIDS treatment programs such as the Ryan White program and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), have allowed people living with HIV/AIDS to live longer and more productive lives. "The passage of the Affordable Care Act has begun the process of reforming our nation's health system so that all Americans will have access to the health care they need. This law is especially important for people living with HIV/AIDS, many of whom have been denied health insurance coverage because their infection is a pre-existing condition. "Unfortunately, the progress we have made against this devastating disease is in grave danger of being reversed. I am deeply concerned about the growing numbers of infected Americans who are on waiting lists for ADAP because Congress has not provided sufficient funding for this life-saving program. Funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative has been virtually stagnant since 2003, despite the ongoing spread of HIV among Latino Americans and other communities of color. "Congress is considering drastic reductions in funding for critical public health and HIV/AIDS programs like Medicare, Medicaid, NIH research, CDC prevention programs, Ryan White and ADAP. Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has passed legislation to repeal the Affordable Care Act and allow health insurance companies to continue to deny coverage to Americans living with HIV/AIDS. Fortunately, the Senate has shown no interest in this ill-advised legislation. "I call upon my colleagues in Congress to protect Medicare and Medicaid; maintain funding for critical HIV/AIDS programs; and support full implementation of the Affordable Care Act so that people living with HIV/AIDS can continue to be productive members of our society." ### Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several other initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities. The Initiative has received approximately $400 million per year since fiscal year 2003. On May 20, 2011, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2012 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 56 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. 2. Encouraging involvement by clinicians: Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution, H.Res. 362, in honor of the fourth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. The resolution urges doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. This resolution was cosponsored by 24 of her colleagues in Congress. 3. Preventing the spread of AIDS: Congresswoman Waters plans to reintroduce the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429 in the 111th Congress), which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to adjournment last year. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. 4. Protecting HIV screening: Congresswoman Waters plans to reintroduce the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137 in the 111th Congress). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. This bill had 46 cosponsors representing both political parties in the 111th Congress.
11.28.2011	Rep. Waters Statement on the Retirement of Rep. Barney Frank Today- "I am deeply saddened to learn that my friend and colleague, Barney Frank, has decided not to seek reelection to the position of Representative of Massachusetts Fourth Congressional District. Barney has been more than just a tireless and thoughtful leader on the Financial Services Committee; he has also been a dear friend, teacher, confidant, and ally. His retirement represents a loss for all of us. "We first served on the Judiciary Committee together and then on Financial Services. Through that service, Barney and I built a friendship and working relationship based on mutual respect for each other and a mutual desire to make sure all Americans have a fair shot. Barney is a fighter for fairness in financial services and civil rights for all, including minorities and LGBT Americans. Because of his leadership, the Financial Services Committee has been one of the most productive committees in Congress. "If not for his leadership and commitment, serious and much needed legislation, including financial reform, would have never come to fruition. Working side by side with Barney on housing issues, flood insurance, investor and consumer protections and financial regulatory reform, especially on the Dodd-Frank conference committee, has resulted in some of my proudest moments as a legislator. I look forward to working with Barney over the next year to protect these important gains. Of course, there is more work to be done. "As the next most senior member of the committee, the current ranking member on the Capital Markets subcommittee and the former chair of the Housing and Community Opportunity subcommittee, I hope to use my experience to continue and expand his work in the committee. I will continue to champion practical regulations, while making sure they work for consumers and the financial sector, a sector which has the right to be profitable but the obligation to be fair, two concepts which are not mutually exclusive. "I will miss Barney deeply. I will miss his wit, his sense of humor, his dedication to helping those who cannot help themselves, his passion for affordable housing, his deep knowledge of financial services issues, and his commitment to the Democratic Party. Most of all, I will miss his friendship. He has been a friend to the voiceless, the disenfranchised, to all Democrats everywhere, and to me. "I sincerely wish him the best of luck in his life after leaving the House. This place will never be the same without him."
11.28.2011	Rep. Waters Statement on the Retirement of Rep. Barney Frank Today- "I am deeply saddened to learn that my friend and colleague, Barney Frank, has decided not to seek reelection to the position of Representative of Massachusetts Fourth Congressional District. Barney has been more than just a tireless and thoughtful leader on the Financial Services Committee; he has also been a dear friend, teacher, confidant, and ally. His retirement represents a loss for all of us. "We first served on the Judiciary Committee together and then on Financial Services. Through that service, Barney and I built a friendship and working relationship based on mutual respect for each other and a mutual desire to make sure all Americans have a fair shot. Barney is a fighter for fairness in financial services and civil rights for all, including minorities and LGBT Americans. Because of his leadership, the Financial Services Committee has been one of the most productive committees in Congress. "If not for his leadership and commitment, serious and much needed legislation, including financial reform, would have never come to fruition. Working side by side with Barney on housing issues, flood insurance, investor and consumer protections and financial regulatory reform, especially on the Dodd-Frank conference committee, has resulted in some of my proudest moments as a legislator. I look forward to working with Barney over the next year to protect these important gains. Of course, there is more work to be done. "As the next most senior member of the committee, the current ranking member on the Capital Markets subcommittee and the former chair of the Housing and Community Opportunity subcommittee, I hope to use my experience to continue and expand his work in the committee. I will continue to champion practical regulations, while making sure they work for consumers and the financial sector, a sector which has the right to be profitable but the obligation to be fair, two concepts which are not mutually exclusive. "I will miss Barney deeply. I will miss his wit, his sense of humor, his dedication to helping those who cannot help themselves, his passion for affordable housing, his deep knowledge of financial services issues, and his commitment to the Democratic Party. Most of all, I will miss his friendship. He has been a friend to the voiceless, the disenfranchised, to all Democrats everywhere, and to me. "I sincerely wish him the best of luck in his life after leaving the House. This place will never be the same without him."
11.23.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) participated in two Thanksgiving turkey giveaways in anticipation of the upcoming holiday. Congresswoman Maxine Waters helped distribute Thanksgiving turkeys to non-profit, community organizations based in California's 35th Congressional District on Monday, November 21 at Behavioral Health Services' Pacific House in Hawthorne as part of this year's "Operation Gobble." Operation Gobble was made possible by Golden State Water Company, which annually asks legislators throughout California to nominate charitable organizations to receive Thanksgiving turkeys. Congresswoman Waters has worked with Golden State for many years to ensure that community based organizations in her district, particularly hard hit by the recession, are able to share the holiday spirit with the homeless, seniors, military veterans and needy families they serve. Congresswoman Waters also participated in today's E.J. Jackson Foundation/Jackson Limousine Service 24th Annual Turkey Dinner Give-Away, helping to spread holiday cheer to thousands of Angelenos. ### Photo: Congresswoman Waters (R) at 2011 Operation Gobble with Susan Burton (L), Founder and Executive Director of A New Way of Life Reentry Project which provides housing and support services to formerly incarcerated women in South Central Los Angeles, assisting them in making a successful transition back to community life.
11.23.2011	Last Friday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) reintroduced the Minority Diabetes Initiative Act (H.R. 2799). This bill will establish an initiative to provide grants to physicians and community?based organizations for diabetes prevention, care, and treatment programs in minority communities. The bill has a diverse group of cosponsors, including Donna Christensen, Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) Health Braintrust; Lucille Roybal-Allard, Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus (CHC) Health Task Force; Barbara Lee, Chair of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC) Health Task Force; Madeleine Bordallo, Vice-Chair of the CAPAC; Charles Gonzalez, Chair of the CHC; and Raul Grijalva, Co-Chair of the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC). "Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, and it is having an especially severe impact on minorities," said Congresswoman Waters. According to data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), among persons over the age of 20, 8.4 percent of Asian Americans, 11.8 percent of Hispanic Americans, 12.6 percent of African Americans, and 14.2 percent of American Indians/Alaska Natives have been diagnosed with diabetes. The CDC calculated that compared to whites, Hispanics were 1.5 times as likely to die from diabetes; American Indians were almost twice as likely to die from diabetes; and blacks were more than twice as likely to die from the disease. "Diabetes can lead to serious and sometimes deadly complications, including high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, blindness, kidney disease, nerve damage, and lower-limb amputations. Minorities with diabetes often lack access to quality health care and are more likely to suffer from complications," said Congresswoman Waters. The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will provide grants for a variety of diabetes-related health services, including public education on diabetes prevention and control, routine health care for diabetic patients, eye care, foot care, and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes. "The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will help minorities affected by diabetes to live healthy and productive lives," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
11.22.2011	Congresswoman Waters (CA-35) today issued the following statement reacting to news that the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction was unable to reach bipartisan agreement and present a deficit reduction package to the Congress, pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011: "I have been opposed to the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, commonly known as the "Super Committee," from the very beginning and never had any confidence that the 12 Members would be able to reach a consensus on deficit reduction that included short term measures to stimulate job creation. That is why I introduced legislation to repeal both the Super Committee and the harmful, automatic cuts that the Super Committee's failure have triggered. I have always believed that the Super Committee was a misguided distraction that diverted Congressional attention from the nation's unemployment crisis, which is not only an emergency for the 24 million individuals in need of full-time work, but is also one of the single largest contributors to our federal deficit. What this process has made clear is that the Republicans lack any real solutions to address the unemployment crisis, are steadfast in their desire to privatize Medicare and are unmoving in their refusal to consider tax increases on the wealthiest Americans. This intransigence is made all the more galling when considering the fact that a clear majority of Americans – and even a majority of Republicans – support raising taxes on the wealthy as a means of achieving deficit reduction. Instead of responsibly governing, the House Republicans have held hostage the legislative process and have relied on political stunts and manufactured crises to pursue their radical agenda. The Super Committee was born when Republicans turned a perfunctory vote on the debt ceiling into a showdown that brought us to the brink of defaulting on our obligations to our creditors. Now that the Super Committee has failed, I hope that regular order can be restored, and that the debate over job creation and deficit reduction can move out from the shadows. I will continue to communicate my message to the Congress that jobs must come first, and the House and Senate should be devoting all of its time to rebuilding the nation's infrastructure and helping to put all Americans back to work. Employing Americans is essential to not only restoring our economic competitiveness, but reducing our deficit." ###
11.22.2011	On November 18, 2011, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) introduced a key component of President Obama's American Jobs Act—Project Rebuild. She was joined by 17 other Democratic Members as sponsors of H.R. 3502, the "Project Rebuild Act of 2011." Project Rebuild builds upon the success of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), which Rep. Waters authored in 2008 and for which she has secured $7 billion in funding. "NSP has worked in communities nationwide by restoring abandoned and foreclosed properties, fixing the housing market in the neighborhoods that have been hit hardest by the foreclosure crisis," Rep. Waters explained. NSP allows local governments and non-profits to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned homes and sell those homes to low- and moderate-income buyers. Program funds can also be used to establish land banks, demolish blighted structures and redevelop vacant properties. The program has accomplished multiple goals: Stabilizing neighborhoods damaged by the foreclosure crisis; Raising property values for surrounding homeowners by rehabbing blighted and abandoned housing in communities; Providing affordable housing to low- and moderate-income individuals and families; Decreasing costs incurred by municipal governments related to dealing with foreclosed properties; and Creating jobs in construction, realty and property maintenance in communities severely damaged by the foreclosure crisis. As a direct result of advocacy by Rep. Waters, Congress provided NSP with $7 billion. "NSP is truly a success story," Rep. Waters said. "It has had a positive impact on Los Angeles. I've seen firsthand the rehabbed homes in my district and in the city at large. I've seen the realtors and contractors going back to work solely as a result of NSP. This program is truly a job creator and a stimulator of local economies." In total, the City and County of Los Angeles have received a combined $168 million in NSP funding. L.A. Neighborhood Housing Services, a housing counseling and non-profit developer in Los Angeles, also received $60 million in NSP funding to complete projects across the Los Angeles area. Project Rebuild represents the next phase of NSP and is an essential component of President Obama's American Jobs Act. Project Rebuild would invest $15 billion to rehabilitate distressed properties, and could address the needs of an estimated 150,000 properties in communities across the country. In addition to rehabilitating residential properties, Project Rebuild would also include abandoned and foreclosed commercial properties. It is estimated that Project Rebuild will support 191,000 jobs. "It's time to scale NSP up to the next level and Project Rebuild does exactly that," Rep. Waters stated. "I'm pleased that President Obama has recognized the power of NSP by including Project Rebuild in his American Jobs Act. Due to the success of NSP, we already know that Project Rebuild will work. We've got to get the housing market going again and Project Rebuild will do that. It will create jobs, stabilize communities, and bolster the housing market. Project Rebuild is the best way to rebuild our communities, our neighborhoods, and our economy." ###
11.17.2011	CONGRESSWOMAN WATERS LEADS 54 MEMBERS OF CONGRESS SEEKING HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE FOR ROUTINE HIV SCREENING Washington, D.C. – Yesterday, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS through increased awareness, screening, research, treatment, and funding, sent a letter to the Honorable Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Health and Human Services, urging her to include routine annual screening for HIV in the Essential Health Benefits package under the Affordable Care Act. A total of 54 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. The text of the letter follows: "As Members of Congress who are concerned about the impact of HIV/AIDS in our communities, we write to urge you to include routine annual screening for HIV as a preventive procedure in the Essential Health Benefits package under the Affordable Care Act. "There are over 1.1 million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and about 20% of them do not know they are infected. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there are approximately 50,000 new HIV infections every year, and more than 16,000 people with AIDS died in 2008. "The CDC recommends routine HIV screening in all health care settings for patients aged 13-64. Routine HIV screening allows HIV-positive individuals to learn of their status and begin medical treatment to prolong their lives and maintain their health and productivity. Research also indicates that HIV-positive individuals are less likely to transmit HIV to other persons if they are receiving treatment. Routine HIV screening is also consistent with the National HIV/AIDS Strategy, which was released by the White House in July of 2010 and which seeks to increase the percentage of people living with HIV who know their status. "Unfortunately, some health insurance plans do not cover routine HIV screening. Instead, these plans cover HIV tests for patients with known or perceived risk factors (for example, men who have sex with men and intravenous drug users) and patients who show symptoms of AIDS. However, many of those who are infected do not fall into high risk categories. About 27% of new infections involve heterosexual transmission, and women account for 23% of new infections. People of color have been impacted severely, with African Americans accounting for 44% of new infections and Hispanics/Latinos accounting for 20%. Approximately 68% of new infections are among people of color. "As long as health plans refuse to cover HIV tests as routine health screenings, many doctors and health providers are unlikely to encourage routine HIV screening for their patients. As a result, many patients who are HIV-positive will not discover their infection until their HIV/AIDS is more advanced and treatment is less likely to be effective. Meanwhile, they will not be able to take action to avoid spreading the virus to others. Indeed, approximately one-third of people who test positive for HIV progress to an AIDS diagnosis within 12 months, suggesting that many were unaware they were HIV-positive for an extended period of time. Thus, routine HIV screening is a critical component of HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention efforts. "We appreciate your commitment to comprehensive health benefits, and we urge you to facilitate routine HIV screening by including it as a preventive procedure in the Essential Health Benefits package. We look forward to working with you to ensure that the Affordable Care Act meets the needs of all Americans, including those who are affected by HIV/AIDS." ### Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several other initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities, which are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. The Initiative has received approximately $400 million per year since fiscal year 2003. On May 20, 2011, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2012 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 56 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. 2. Preventing the spread of AIDS: Congresswoman Waters plans to reintroduce the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429 in the 111th Congress), which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to adjournment last year. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. 3. Protecting HIV screening: Congresswoman Waters plans to reintroduce the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137 in the 111th Congress). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. This bill had 46 cosponsors representing both political parties in the 111th Congress. 4. Encouraging involvement by clinicians: On July 21, 2011, Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution, H.Res. 362, in honor of the fourth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. The resolution urges doctors, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. This resolution was cosponsored by 24 of her colleagues in Congress.
11.14.2011	Washington – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement upon the passing of her former colleague and friend, Sen. Teresa Hughes: "I am saddened to learn of the passing of former California State Senator Teresa Hughes. Teresa Hughes was a close friend and colleague. We both served in the California State Assembly in the 1970s and 1980s. When Teresa was elected to the State Senate she represented the 25th District which included many of the same cities and communities in my Congressional District. We shared many exciting times working together in the California Assembly. Teresa was only the second African American woman elected to the Assembly. It was a time when the Women's Movement began opening new opportunities for women. Teresa was a strong supporter of then-State Senator Mervyn Dymally, for whom she worked prior to her election to the California Legislature. I recall the community rallying around her candidacy for the 47th Assembly District. They were proud to elect a professional educator committed to expanding opportunities for our community. I know how dedicated Teresa was to serving the people in South Central and Southeast Los Angeles. She was committed to strengthening the educational system for children in California. Teresa worked hard to improve the quality of life for low-income families, seniors and people of color. I will miss Teresa and am thankful for the time we spent working together. My prayers go out to her family and the many that loved her." ###
10.28.2011	Congresswoman Waters (CA), Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, today led 15 of her colleagues in the House of Representatives, renewing her call for U.S. bank regulators to publicly release information regarding the steps that mortgage servicers are taking to prevent illegal foreclosure practices. Recent news reports indicate that the claims process for households harmed by faulty and fraudulent foreclosure processing is likely to begin soon. Despite this fact, regulators have released no information to the public about how eligible households were identified, how these households will be reached by mortgage servicers, and how they will go about having their claims processed. "The only way this claims process will be fair is if the regulators shine a bright light on mortgage servicers, and make them demonstrate to the public how they're being held accountable. To date, this entire exercise has been conducted in the shadows," said the Congresswoman. "I fear that without greater transparency, we're setting homeowners, and foreclosed-upon families, up for more disappointment." In July, the Congresswoman led 11 of her colleagues in sending a letter to regulators, asking regulators for information about how mortgage servicers were reforming their practices, and about potential conflicts of interest for the "independent consultants" they hired to review their foreclosure policies. The U.S. banking regulators declined to respond to the Congresswoman and her colleagues. The full text of today's letter from the Congresswoman to regulators is below: Mr. John Walsh Acting Comptroller of the Currency Office of the Comptroller of the Currency Independence Square 250 E. Street SW Washington, DC 20219-0001 The Honorable Ben S. Bernanke Chairman Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW Washington, DC 20551 Dear Acting Comptroller Walsh and Chairman Bernanke: This letter is to follow-up on correspondence sent to your offices on July 20, 2011, wherein we requested that you to make public critical information related to enforcement actions taken against mortgage servicers regarding their improper foreclosure practices. To date, we have not received a response from your offices indicating whether you intend to provide the public with any of the information we requested. As we stated in our July letter, "we believe it is essential that [information related to the April 2011 Consent Orders] be made available to the general public or the public will lack confidence in both the foreclosure review process and results." With more than six months having passed since the release of the Consent Orders, and more than three months having passed since our initial request for transparency, we fear that public confidence in this process is quickly eroding. Moreover, given that in September, news reports indicated that servicer outreach to affected borrowers was "expected to [launch] in the coming weeks," we think it is essential for the public to have information regarding how servicers and their consultants identified households with eligible claims.[1] It would be premature to begin the claims process without the public first having a clear understanding of how eligible households were identified. Additionally, we are very concerned about the methods servicers will use to find and contact households harmed by foreclosure-processing problems. Servicers have a poor performance track-record in effectively engaging with borrowers, and, in the claims process, have a natural disincentive to reach the households their practices have harmed. Moreover, many of the affected individuals will likely be difficult to reach given the housing and economic instability faced by families after foreclosure. We also remain concerned about potential conflicts of interest between the servicers and the firms hired to do these foreclosure reviews, and repeat our request for you to release the "engagement letters" governing the mortgage servicers' contracts with their consultants. Though you have declined to provide us with information about the foreclosure review consultants selected by the servicers, recent reporting has speculated that several of the auditors selected are currently working for the servicers on other consulting assignments.[2] Finally, we are deeply concerned about the level of expertise of the staff hired by the servicers and/or their foreclosure review consultants as it relates to implementing the terms of the Consent Orders. Job solicitations for positions such as "mortgage foreclosure file reviewer" have recently appeared on various job-aggregator websites (two such postings are enclosed with this letter). The required education and experience levels noted in these job postings raise questions about whether junior level employees, without experience in the practice of law, have the ability to make complex legal judgments on matters such as whether proper "ownership" of the note and mortgage was established by the servicer, whether foreclosures were in accordance with applicable federal and state laws, as well as the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, and whether fees and penalties were legally assessed on borrowers. Distressingly, the job solicitations for these positions seem to suggest that servicers intend to hire individuals with no more expertise than the so-called "robo-signers" that created many of these problems in the first place. We respectfully request an immediate response to this letter, indicating whether the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and the Federal Reserve intend to make public any of the information requested in our July 2011 letter. Should the OCC and the Federal Reserve decline to make this information public, we request a written response outlining the rationale underlying such decision. [1] "Fixing U.S. foreclosures may take a year: regulator." Zibel, Alan. MarketWatch. 23 September 2011. [2] "Banks Hire Friendlies for ‘Independent' Foreclosure Reviews." McKenna, Francine McKenna. American Banker. 6 October 2011.
10.27.2011	Below is Congresswoman Maxine Waters' statement regarding Domestic Violence Awareness Month: "I am proud to unite with the millions of victims, families and advocates worldwide in bringing about awareness to the immeasurable issues surrounding domestic violence in our communities. The month of October gives us an opportunity to dispel the innumerable misconceptions and educate our community on the issues that surround domestic violence. Nearly three out of four, that's 74 percent, of Americans know someone personally who is or has been a victim of domestic violence. Domestic Violence Awareness Month is an opportunity for us to be clear that domestic violence is not poor anger management. Domestic violence is a pattern of abusive behaviors that is used by one partner in the relationship, heterosexual or same-sex, to gain or maintain power and control over the other partner. Domestic violence is all-encompassing and too often a life-threatening crime affecting millions of individuals across our nation regardless of age, gender, socio-economic status, race or religion. Below are some startling statistics that only further prove the importance of bringing awareness to this issue: Every nine seconds a woman is beaten by her intimate partner and one in four women will experience domestic violence in her lifetime. Between 600,000 and 6 million women and 100,000 and 6 million men are victims of domestic violence each year. Approximately one in five female high school students reports being physically and/or sexually abused by a dating partner and 40 percent of girls age 14 to 17 reports knowing someone their age that has been hit or beaten by a boyfriend. Studies show that 3.3 to 10 million children witness some form of domestic violence annually. Boys who witness such violence are more likely to grow up to perpetuate this violence against their partner and girls are more likely to become the victims of such violence. It is troubling to know that only a mere thirty years ago, a victim of domestic violence could be battered at home and there were little to no criminal action taken or resources available. Although we have made a great deal of progress since then, there is still much to do in the crusade to decrease domestic violence crimes in our communities. As the pressure from the economic downturn continues to affect families, many victims still suffer in silence and for many others who do come forward there are simply just not enough resources available. National Domestic Violence Awareness Month serves as an opportunity for us to make our commitment to ensuring victims and their families are safe and hold perpetrators accountable for their actions evident. Nearly 2.2 million people called a domestic violence crisis or hot lines to escape crisis situations, seek advice, or assist someone they thought might be victims. Let us continue to work together to change laws and policies that undervalue the effects on women and girls and put the blame where it belongs — on the abuser. Let us continue to work even harder at educating others on recognizing the signs of domestic violence, how to help their friends and family and work with our youth early on to prevent the perpetuation of this abuse within our communities. This October, let us rededicate ourselves to doing all we can to assist those who are affected by domestic violence and continue our never-ending work towards ending this pandemic within our communities." ###
10.27.2011	Today, the Obama Administration announced it is taking steps in making it easier for Americans to manage student loan debt and apply for federal financial aid. The announcement is apart of a series of executive actions the President is taking to assist in putting Americans back to work and strengthen the economy. The Congresswoman's comments on this proposal are below: I applaud President Obama's new proposals aimed at increasing college access and affordability by making it easier for millions of Americans to manage current and future student loan debt. The Administration's new "Pay As You Earn" proposal will educate federal loan borrowers about the Income-Based Repayment which under current law allows borrowers to limit their loan payments to 15 percent of their discretionary income and forgives all remaining debt after 25 years. Although, few students know about this option, the President's new proposal will create a lower monthly payment cap of 10 percent of their discretionary income, instead of 15 percent, and change the loan forgiveness statute to after 20 years rather than 25 years of responsible payments. This is a significant step in the right direction in providing some economic relief for nearly 1.6 million of Americans currently saddled with student loan debt. The loan consolidation initiative within this proposal will make it easier for borrowers with multiple loans to pay their monthly student loan payments and avoid default. Student borrowers with both a loan from the Department of Education and a loan through the discontinued Federal Family Education Loan program will benefit immensely from this initiative and will have access to lower interest rate incentives as a result of it. Lastly, the President's "Know Before You Owe" project, an collaborative effort between the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Department of Education, assists students and families decide where to go to college and how to pay for it. The new model financial aid disclosure form, or draft "shopping sheet," will make it easier for millions of families in minority communities to compare the real cost of different college options. I am encouraged by President Obama's action towards offering immediate relief to current college students and recent graduates during this tough economic time by giving them the opportunity to limit loan payments. I encourage my colleagues within the chambers of Congress to follow his lead in finding real-life solutions to real-life problems American families face daily. ###
10.26.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters made history today when she delivered the first-ever speech on the House floor complied entirely of posts from her Twitter and Facebook accounts. Two weeks ago, Congresswoman Waters took to Twitter and Facebook pages to ask her "followers" to send her what they would say to House Republicans if they had the opportunity to make a speech on the House floor. We received thousands of comments from people all over the U.S. The highlighted and under-lined names are the people whose posts we used to create the speech. We've reviewed these comments and compiled the best of them into the speech below: Aaron Parker: To the people that sit on Capitol Hill: Tawanda Johnson-Gray: As Members of Congress in the greatest country in the World, you are very well aware of the concerns expressed by the American constituency (Jobs, Stable Economic Environment, Education, Crime, War, etc.). Aaron Parker: You are not republicans, you are not democrats, you are not an independent, you do not belong to any faction. @lmsweets: Stop worrying about party and do something for the people, @easynan2: pass the jobs bill, we all need to work. E. Joyce Moore : A child with no food doesn't care about your power struggle with those who are across the aisle. You must represent the most downtrodden people in your district, not the most successful business nor any special interest. Virginia Ferguson: Big money donations from corporations and the financial industry have purchased our democracy. @dakotathenifty: American elected the house not corporations. It is time they represent us. Aaron Parker: You have an obligation as a public servant, to ensure that the underprivileged of our society will be protected. @aonarat: don't forget the poor a group that continues to grow while the rich get richer. Aaron Parker: We have to trust you to make the right decision for us, @abridgeforth: support and pass the American Jobs Act. Yvonne LaRose: We labor to right our small, overturned coffers to replace what was lost. We labor and pay three and four times over for substandard services. We are forced to stand in lines and then shoved aside because we have become the disenfranchised while billionaire executives live and work in very comfortable environments. We are bludgeoned with partisan rhetoric that distracts from the real American issues and representatives who feel they may act without giving heed to the desires of their constituents. Put partisan politics aside; start serving your citizens with measured focused on supporting the people. @emdoyle Congress must support jobs. We need jobs so that we can pay our reasonable share for life activities and services. We want the right to realize the promises of our founding documents. @sizzlene: the middle class have been the legs this country has stood on. The lack of meaningful action in DC has crippled us. Rogelio Cruz: We have not been able to save for our children's college education as we live paycheck to paycheck. We worry about the more immediate dilemma-will we be able to keep our home? We are two months behind in our mortgage. Bank of America, our lender was bailed out with our tax money. Now who is going to bail us, who played by the rules and worked hard, out? @sugarscoutc: please don't give another dime of our money to save the banks, they do not care about us. Lisa Rivera: Americans are sick of hearing Congress bicker about whom is to blame for our issues. While Congress pontificates and filibusters, Americans are starving, losing their homes, working multiple jobs, if they can find them, and puzzling over ways to balance our incredibly, shrinking budgets against the rising costs of tolls, gas, food and corporate thievery in the guise of bank fees and loan rates. @Somerexpress: Good hardworking American's shouldn't be rubbing nickels together and shouldn't have to pick food over medicine. Lisa Rivera: We wonder how we will pay our taxes and student loans, avoid answering our phones, leave our mail unopened, as we struggle. The system, if it ever was for us, has failed at this critical juncture in history to safeguard us. The global Occupy Wall Street movement illustrates beautifully the consciousness of the people which has been missing from the political landscape. @emdoyle Congress must support jobs, education and healthcare. @westlamike: people are hurting out here. Lisa Rivera: Our silence has finally and irrevocably been broken. Those of us who have been awakened are now willing soldiers in the fight. @monoteus1: The voice of the people occupying around the nation will not go unrecognized. Our strength, our passion and our vision can, and should be, harnessed to power change. @toebin: Old policies don't work. Lisa Rivera: Suggestions: Rod Hernandez The first thing to do is to abolish any budget committee discussions that do not happen on the floor. The existence of these secret negotiations by super committee validates #OWS and all of the people's concerns. All budget talks should be done in full view of the American people so that come election day we know who is working toward the greater good and can make our choices accordingly. Lisa Rivera Revise the tax code and raise the taxes for the rich and corporations and pass the American Job Act. @toebin: If tax cuts created jobs we wouldn't have millions unemployed now. Lisa Rivera Close the loopholes, which allowed corporations to skirt the system and create the mortgage crisis. Cheryl Hammerlindl Get money out of politics. Lisa Rivera: We need citizen funded elections to limit corporate influence. @bubbadutta: Citizens united must go. @oversightoftheGOP: If politicians were freed from endless fundraising, they would focus on jobs, not favors. Lisa Rivera: Enact a National Foreclosure Moratorium Lisa Rivera: Waive 401K tax withdrawal penalties for the unemployed and underemployed as discussed during the 2008 campaign. How can people get back on their feet if they are in debt to everyone incl. the IRS? Lisa Rivera: Determine what can be done to repeal the recently enacted Voter id laws which will have a direct impact on the 2012 election. USAgainstAlzheimer's: We need to make a cure for Alzheimer's a national priority, otherwise it could add $2 trillion in debt to the US economy in the next 10 years. National Voting Day: Election Day should be a National Holiday! Sheri Jefferson: LEAVE EDUCATION FUNDING ALONE. Yvonne Ellett America needs a strong, learning-focused Public Education System. Gregory Bryant: (E)nd…Outsourcing and Off shoring. Lucy Merks: Globalization has moved our jobs overseas. We must start to think and act locally, by making things here again. Tim Fowler: If the huge corporations want their tax cuts, they can have it, just as long as 99% of their workforce is employed inside of the United States. ###
10.21.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) announced her opposition to the U.S.-Colombia Free Trade Agreement (FTA) at a press conference on Capitol Hill. The House of Representatives is expected to vote on H.R. 3078, a bill to implement the U.S.-Colombia FTA, this week. The Congresswoman issued the following statement: "I find it deeply disturbing that the United States Congress is even considering a free trade agreement with a country that holds the world record for assassinations of trade unionists. According to Colombia's National Labor School, 51 trade unionists were assassinated in Colombia in 2010. That's more than the rest of the world combined. In addition, 21 unionists survived attempts on their lives, 338 unionists received death threats, 35 were forcibly displaced, 34 were arbitrarily detained, and 7 disappeared in 2010. Another 23 unionists have been assassinated so far this year, and a total of 2908 union members have been murdered in Colombia since 1986. "The U.S.-Colombia FTA could also have a devastating impact on low-income farmers in Colombia, especially Afro-Colombian and indigenous farmers and farmers in Colombia's conflict zones. These impoverished farmers would be forced to compete against imports of subsidized American agricultural products. According to a study by Colombian economists, nearly 400,000 small farmers would lose between 48 and 70 percent of their income. These people have already been disproportionately impacted by decades of civil war. They don't need a free trade agreement. What they need is peace. "Let's vote down this trade agreement, and tell the government of Colombia that there can be no free trade without human rights and human dignity." ###
10.21.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), founder of the Out of Iraq Caucus, issued the following statement in response to President Obama's announcement that all U.S. troops will be removed from Iraq by the end of this year: "As founder of the Out of Iraq Caucus of the U.S. House of Representatives, I salute President Obama for fulfilling his commitment to responsibly end the war in Iraq. Today's announcement that all remaining U.S. troops will return from Iraq by the end of 2011 is a welcome development that will surely warm the hearts of many families this holiday season. When I joined with Reps. Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Lynn Woolsey (D-CA) and other members of Congress to organize the Out of Iraq Caucus, we were concerned that the reasons for the U.S. to engage in war in Iraq were not based on sound intelligence and further, that the war would place members of our armed forces at great risk while also depleting resources needed for our nation's domestic agenda. After nearly $1 trillion spent and more than 4,000 American lives lost, the costs to our country have been great. As the war in Iraq draws to a close, it is my hope that this conflict will serve as a solemn reminder of the costs of war. We must carefully reexamine our approach to national security and how we view the United States' role in promoting international peace and security. If we are to remain leaders in the world, we must always use our best judgment to determine when and how we engage other nations and other actors – particularly if we are considering the use of military force. While we are always prepared to meet the challenges of keeping our nation safe and secure, we must value the lives of our young men and women in uniform who bear the brunt of the responsibility for our decisions. To that end, I commend the President for his leadership in ensuring the responsible draw down of troops and eventual end to the U.S. war in Iraq. My thoughts and prayers remain with the families of the more than 4,478 brave men and women who lost their lives in the eight years we occupied Iraq. I believe their legacy and heroism will live on in history and with the servicemembers who fought alongside them." ###
10.14.2011	For Immediate Release: Contact: Mikael Moore, 202-579-7023 October 14th, 2011 Today, Rep. Waters released the following statement: '"Over the last several weeks, I have heard from you in a variety of ways about our nation's struggling economy and unemployment. You have written letters, called, posted on my Facebook page and tweeted me, expressing your concern and your ideas about how to keep America moving forward. More people, especially here in Washington, need to hear your voice, concerns and ideas. "Therefore, during the week of October 24th, I will read a speech on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives (#ourspeech), composed entirely of your words in posts from my Twitter and Facebook feeds that you post between now and Sunday midnight. "How will it work? "In order to participate, you and your friends must first follow me @maxinewaters on Twitter and/or like my Facebook page at https://www.facebook.com/MaxineWaters. Then, I'll need you to answer this simple question: if I could give a speech on the House floor about jobs and the economy, what would I say? "Post as much or as little as you like; just make sure you use #ourspeech for each entry. Get your friends, family and co-workers involved. If you have an innovative small business idea, share it. If you have an idea on how to reform our tax system, share it. If you have an idea on how to get Americans working again, share it. If you are frustrated and just want to be heard, share it. The words you share have the chance to be heard by millions and become a part of the permanent Congressional record. Use #ourspeech to follow the conversation. Add on to others messages, start your own narrative, edit figures and facts. You write it and I will deliver it. This is #ourspeech so we can say what we want. "Once we collect all of the tweets and Facebook posts, my staff and I will compile as many as we can into a floor speech crediting everyone whose comments were included.Not everyone's thoughts will be used. If we do it right, we can make your voice a regular part of the conversation in Congress. As I mentioned, the opportunity to participate starts now and ends Sunday at midnight. "Remember you must follow me on Twitter or like my Facebook page to participate. Social media has offered us all a way to expand democracy. Now I want to bring it to the floor of Congress to let Washington know exactly how you feel. If you are tired of only politicians having a say in the debate, now is your time to change that. "Follow," "like" and contribute to #ourspeech."
10.14.2011	For Immediate Release Contact: Mikael Moore Phone: (202) 225-2201 Congresswoman Waters Introduces Bill to End Secret ‘Super Committee' Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) introduced legislation to eliminate the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction. The bill repeals the provisions of the Budget Control Act of 2011 that create, fund, and establish the Super Committee's rules. Further, the bill repeals the enforcement mechanisms that trigger automatic budget cuts in defense and discretionary spending. All other provisions, including the debt ceiling increase, would remain intact. "I firmly believe that Congress should be focused squarely on this nation's unemployment crisis. Since the Super Committee's single charge is to produce $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction-- which could include cuts to programs that create jobs --it must be promptly dismantled so that regular order can be restored and the federal government can fully dedicate itself to creating jobs and stimulating the economy. If not, unemployment will inevitably rise in all communities, in particular in communities of color." Republicans refuse to negotiate on tax reform, and they remain immovable to making cuts in federal corporate welfare programs to the oil and gas, defense, and financial services industries. At the same time, however, they continue to propose steep cuts in: low income heating subsidies; community development block grants; Pell Grants; grad student loan subsidies; and health care affordability. Their entire agenda is predicated upon the destruction of the social safety net and the elimination of programs and federal assistance during a time when they are needed the most. The committee is an illegitimate shell game which poor and middle class Americans will lose. It flies in the face of basic principles of fairness and transparency. How can 12 people decide the fate of millions Americans behind closed doors with little to no input from Congress or the average citizen? The Super Committee's final legislative product will receive an up or down vote in both bodies of Congress; however, Members will not be allowed to offer amendments. Therefore the 523 Members of the House and Senate who do not serve on the Super Committee will be excluded from having the opportunity to represent their constituents' interests in Super Committee's bill. The Tea Party has so rigged the law that regardless of whether the Super Committee fails or succeeds to meet its goal, it is likely that the end result will be draconian spending cuts to critical programs. "Republicans have completely hijacked the legislative process, and they have seized every opportunity to hold the most perfunctory of congressional business hostage for their radical agenda. The Republicans manufactured "Debt Ceiling Crisis" last July is the latest example of the lengths this relatively small group of lawmakers is willing to go to achieve irresponsible cuts. The formation of the Super Committee is merely another counterproductive tool the Republicans can exploit for the next "showdown" they are certain to stage, while doing nothing to create jobs." Text of the legislation attached
10.12.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading proponent of legislation to support the treatment and care of patients with Alzheimer's disease, congratulated the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association for organizing the Walk to End Alzheimer's. The Walk will be held Sunday, October 9th, at Century City Park in Los Angeles, California. The Congresswoman issued the following statement: I commend the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association for organizing the Walk to End Alzheimer's, and I congratulate all of the dedicated individuals who are taking time out of their lives to participate in this walk. Alzheimer's disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and it affects over five million American families. One in eight Americans age 65 and older suffers from Alzheimer's disease, and every 70 seconds, another person in the United States develops this disease. African American and Latino families have been disproportionately impacted by Alzheimer's disease. Recent research indicates that African Americans are about two times more likely than whites to suffer from Alzheimer's disease or another form of dementia, and Latinos are about one and one-half times more likely than whites to suffer from these conditions. Alzheimer's disease affects the entire family. Most Alzheimer's patients live at home under the care of family and friends. Caregivers include spouses, children, and even grandchildren. Taking care of a family member with Alzheimer's disease can be an extremely stressful experience. Caregivers face a variety of challenges ranging from feeding, bathing, and dressing patients to helping them take their medications, managing their finances, and making legal decisions. Caregiving can also take a financial toll. Many individuals quit work, reduce their hours or take time off of work in order to provide care to their loved ones. The Walk to End Alzheimer's is an opportunity to honor Alzheimer's patients and those who love and care for them. Alzheimer's patients deserve a life with dignity, and their families deserve our support. Let us rededicate ourselves to doing all we can to assist those who are affected by this tragic disease. ### Congresswoman Waters has been active on Alzheimer's issues for several years. She has sponsored the following initiatives to assist Alzheimer's patients and their families: Congresswoman Waters introduced the Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 2798) on August 5, 2011. This bill authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Expanding access to training and support services will improve the ability of caregivers to provide effective, compassionate care and allow more Alzheimer's patients to remain in their homes with the people who love them. The bill has 17 cosponsors representing both political parties. Congresswoman Waters introduced the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization (H.R. 2800) on August 5, 2011. This bill reauthorizes a program that helps Alzheimer's patients who wander away from their homes and are unable to tell people in the community who they are or where they live. The program saves local law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns, and it brings priceless peace of mind to families affected by Alzheimer's disease. The bill also has 17 cosponsors representing both political parties. On May 20, 2011, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to Congressional appropriators requesting $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program in fiscal year 2012. A total of 27 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Congresswoman Waters helped the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association obtain a $190,000 grant for caregiver education, outreach and public awareness in Los Angeles in fiscal year 2009.
09.23.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading proponent of legislation to increase research and funding to combat Alzheimer's disease and help those affected by the disease, issued the following statement in recognition of World Alzheimer's Day: I am proud to join the millions of families worldwide who are affected by Alzheimer's disease to recognize today as World Alzheimer's Day. Alzheimer's disease is the sixth leading cause of death in the United States, and it affects over five million Americans. Most Alzheimer's patients live at home under the care of family and friends. Taking care of a family member with Alzheimer's disease can be an extremely stressful experience. Caregivers face a variety of challenges, ranging from feeding, bathing, and dressing patients to helping them take their medications, managing their finances, and making legal decisions. Last month, I introduced two bills to address the needs of patients with Alzheimer's disease, their families and caregivers. Both bills are supported by the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America, as well as Reps. Edward Markey (D-MA) and Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), the bipartisan Co-Chairs of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease. The Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 2798) authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The bill requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to coordinate with the Office of Minority Health and the Office of Women's Health, in order to ensure that women, minorities, and medically underserved communities will benefit from the program. Expanding access to training and support services will improve the ability of caregivers to provide effective, compassionate care and allow more Alzheimer's patients to remain in their homes with the people who love them. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization (H.R. 2800) helps Alzheimer's patients who wander away from their homes and are unable to tell people in the community who they are or where they live. The bill reauthorizes a Department of Justice program that helps local law enforcement officials quickly identify wandering Alzheimer's patients and reunite them with their families. This program is a vital tool for first responders. It saves local law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns, and it brings priceless peace of mind to families affected by Alzheimer's disease. On World Alzheimer's Day, we honor Alzheimer's patients, and we honor the people who love and care for them. Alzheimer's patients deserve a life with dignity. Let us rededicate ourselves to doing all we can to support and assist all those who are affected by this tragic disease. ### Congresswoman Waters has been active on Alzheimer's issues for several years. In addition to her legislative initiatives, she has sought other opportunities to assist Alzheimer's patients and their families. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to Congressional appropriators requesting $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program in fiscal year 2012. A total of 27 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Congresswoman Waters also helped the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association obtain a $190,000 grant for caregiver education, outreach and public awareness in Los Angeles in fiscal year 2009.
09.08.2011	This evening, as the President speaks to the nation about his plan to create jobs, he must acknowledge the economic disaster in the African American community, whose unemployment rate hovers at roughly 16.7 percent, almost double that of the general population and equal to depression-era levels. He must then articulate how the plan he puts forth will target the communities with the highest rates of unemployment, including the African American community. We must target resources to the most needy urban and rural communities in ways that make sense. It is time for us all to acknowledge that a rising tide does not lift all boats. To be clear, I am not advocating for a "Black Jobs" program. Rather, I am advocating for an approach that uses targeting to areas with high unemployment and poverty as a guiding principle in the design and disbursement of any new programs, tax cuts or emergency assistance. Such strategic allocation could have a net-positive impact on the unemployment rates in communities of color, and the country as a whole. For example, if the President and Congress were to create an infrastructure bank, funded in part by repatriated foreign earnings, we could use small, women-owned, minority-owned and community banks, which disproportionately serve communities of color, to make loans for infrastructure projects with local hiring requirements, rather than the large financial institutions who are disconnected from communities and through the bailout, have shown an unwillingness to lend. Additionally, the President and Congress could create a tax-credit, similar to credits suggested for hiring veterans, which would incentivize companies to hire persons from areas of high unemployment. We could also create tax incentives for companies to bring previously outsourced jobs, back to areas of high unemployment. Finally, the President and Congress could target federal dollars to states and localities with high rates of unemployment and poverty to hire teachers, police and firemen. There is a precedent for targeting assistance to communities that are disproportionately impacted by economic conditions. In fact, targeted public policy is the American way. In response to the disproportionate needs of the hard-hit Tennessee Valley (MS, GA, NC, and VA) during the Great Depression, President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the Tennessee Valley Authority Act (TVA) in 1933 to modernize the region. Today, we can see a similar, disproportionate impact on urban communities during this recession, as evidenced by high unemployment levels in the black, Latino, urban and low-income communities. Just as Roosevelt recognized the need in rural areas then, the President must recognize the need in urban communities now. These Americans, deserve no less. Although extreme elements of the GOP would have it otherwise, when our country is impacted by a natural disaster, we respond. We send engineers, equipment and money to address the needs of the communities hardest hit by the disaster. The African American community is in the midst of a economic disaster and in need of targeted public policy to address its unique challenges. There are two basic arguments used by those uncomfortable with targeted public policy for the African American community. First, they argue that the President is the President to everyone and therefore should not target policy towards any one specific group. Second, they argue second that doing so would give the appearance of favoritism and endanger his re-election. The President is in fact, the President to "everyone," not just African Americans. However, "everyone" is not an amorphous concept. In fact, "everyone" is made up of all Americans and includes Blacks, Whites, Asians and Latinos. "Everyone" is the young and the old. "Everyone" is urban and rural. "Everyone" is men and women, rich and poor. All of these communities are different and at times require help in different and targeted ways, in part, because of these differences. These differences are what make our American "everyone" special and no one part of that "everyone," including African Americans, should be sacrificed for polls, prejudice or political correctness. Then there are those, who believe that the President, because he is black, cannot talk specifically about issues directly impacting the black community, like high unemployment. They suggest that doing so would endanger the President's chances of being re-elected. I share the desire to re-elect the first black President. But, I would offer a slightly different analysis. If the unemployment rates in the African American Community continue to climb, like they did in August by almost a full percentage point, those African American voters who came out to the polls for the first time in 2008 but who have since lost their home and/or their job, may not return to the polls. Therefore, targeting public policy to a community who accounted for 13 percent of the electorate in ‘08, and who is now experiencing the culmination of a decade of economic crisis, is not just good policy, but good politics. The first bill President Obama signed into law was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. In short, targeted public policy aimed at creating equal pay for women. Since being elected, the President has signed bills and exercised executive prerogative to target resources to specific communities. Not just good policy, good politics. There are roughly three million African Americans out of work today, a number nearly equal to the entire population of Iowa. I would suggest that if the entire population of Iowa, a key state on the electoral map and a place that served as a stop on the Presidents jobs bus tour were unemployed, they would be mentioned in the President's speech and be the beneficiary of targeted public policy. So, one question to be answered this evening is, are the unemployed in the African American community, including almost 45 percent of its youth, as important as the people of Iowa?
08.20.2011	
08.11.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters reacts to the recent False Claims Lawsuit filed against Education Management Corporation by the Department of Justice and 11 State Attorney Generals. Her statement on the recent filing is below: "Today is an important day in the fight for preserving quality higher education in America. The federal government has joined with 11 states, including California, to file a formal complaint against the Education Management Corporation (EDMC), charging that it was not eligible for the $11 billion in state and federal financial aid it had received from July 2003 through June 2011. Education Management Corporation, which is 41 percent owned by Goldman Sachs, enrolls about 150,000 students in 105 schools operating under four names: Art Institute, Argosy University, Brown Mackie College and South University. "Education Management is being charged with falsely certifying its compliance with provisions of federal law that prohibit a university from paying incentive-based compensation to its admissions recruiters. Between 1999 and 2010, EDMC schools received $93 million in Cal Grants. In 1992, my colleagues and I in Congress enacted the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 (S. 1150) which made incentive compensation illegal. Eliminating of the practice of paying bonuses and commissions to recruiters within private post-secondary and vocational schools was a huge step in for-profit school regulatory reform. We passed this law because we found that It these boiler room-style recruiting practices resulted in the enrollment of thousands of unqualified students, high student loan default rates and the downright waste of state and federal tax dollars. While only accounting for10 percent of the students enrolled in higher education in addition, for-profit colleges account for about half of all defaults on student loans. Therefore we must hold these institutions accountable for the educational services they provide to our students at the taxpayers' expense. I will continue to follow this investigation as it progresses and I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to work together on meaningful legislative reform of the for-profit college industry." ###
08.11.2011	Congresswoman Waters (CA), Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, today wrote two letters calling for action following Standard & Poor's (S&P) historic downgrade of U.S. government debt on Friday, August 5th. In her first letter, Congresswoman Waters wrote to House Financial Services Committee Chairman Spencer Bachus, and Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Chairman Scott Garrett, calling for a hearing examining the implications of S&P's downgrade on the still-fragile U.S. housing market, interest rates on consumer loans, and the borrowing costs for some state and local governments. Congresswoman Waters also called on the Chairmen to examine the impact of an S&P calculation error included in their downgrade analysis, potential conflicts of interest at the ratings agency, and the extent to which the downgrade was based on subjective political analysis from S&P, among other areas of interest. In her second letter, Congresswoman Waters wrote to Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro, asking her to investigate whether the credit rating agency Standard & Poor's (S&P) selectively disclosed information about a downgrade of U.S. government debt to certain financial institutions before that information became available to the public. This request is in response to several news reports indicating that various banking industry executives held meetings with S&P on Thursday and Friday, before S&P's Friday night public announcement of the downgrade. News reports have also raised questions about heavy trading volume and a large sell-off of equity securities during the day on Friday. "Credit ratings agencies, including S&P, have a track-record of poor performance leading up to the 2008 financial crisis, rating mortgage-backed securities and collateralized debt obligations as AAA, often without scrutinizing the underlying loans. And even when they knew their analysis was faulty, they continued to crank out favorable ratings in order to preserve and increase their profits. Famously, an email from an S&P employee to a colleague noted, ‘let's hope we are all wealthy and retired by the time this house of cards falters.' Given their history of consistently and significantly inaccurate ratings, as well as conflicts of interest, I think it is appropriate for the Financial Services Committee to take a look at S&P's recent action regarding the sovereign credit rating of the U.S.," Congresswoman Waters noted. ### The text of both of Congresswoman Waters' letters are below: August 10, 2011 The Honorable Spencer Bachus Chairman, House Committee on Financial Services The Honorable Scott Garrett Chairman, Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises United States House of Representatives 2128 Rayburn House Office Building Washington, DC 20515 Dear Chairmen Bachus and Garrett: I am writing to request that when the House of Representatives reconvenes after its August district work period, the House Financial Services Committee (the Committee) hold a hearing, or a series of hearings, on Standard & Poor's (S&P's) decision to downgrade the sovereign credit rating of the United States of America to ‘AA+' from ‘AAA.' As you know, the decision by S&P to downgrade the sovereign credit rating of the U.S. has had an impact on the U.S. economy and the world's capital markets. On Monday, August 8th, the first trading day following S&P's announcement, U.S. stocks experienced their worst declines since the 2008 financial crisis. And questions remain about what the impact of the downgrade will be on the still-fragile U.S. housing market, as well as interest rates on credit cards and car loans, and the borrowing costs for some state and local governments. I believe it is appropriate to carefully scrutinize S&P's August 5th downgrade of the U.S. not only because of the implications of such a downgrade, but also because of S&P's recent failures in the lead-up to the financial crisis. S&P, as well as other credit rating agencies, consistently provided inaccurate ratings of asset-based securities, acting as "essential cogs in the wheel of financial destruction," as the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission noted in their report earlier this year. Additionally, the record of the 2008 financial crisis demonstrates that S&P was not merely an independent evaluator of the credit risk of financial products, but actively used their power over the mortgage finance market to defeat state-level anti-predatory mortgage lending laws. Therefore, I think it is appropriate for the Committee to hold a hearing, or hearings, on both the implications of S&P's actions, and how the historical performance of S&P interacts with their August 5th downgrade. Additionally, I think it would be useful for the Committee to examine the extent to which S&P's downgrade was based upon an objective analysis of U.S. debt dynamics versus subjective political analysis; the impact of S&P using the incorrect Congressional Budget Office assumption in determining their credit rating of the U.S.; the firewalls and internal controls S&P, and their corporate parent, the McGraw-Hill Companies, have in place to insulate activities related to lobbying the federal government and the United States Congress from credit rating activities; and whether S&P selectively disclosed its downgrade of United States government debt to certain financial institutions before it made that information available to the public.[1] According to news reports, the Senate Banking Committee has already "begun collecting information about Standard & Poor's decision to downgrade the U.S.," and may hold a hearing in September.[2] Given the historic nature of S&P's action, I believe that the Committee should likewise begin an examination of this issue, and hold hearing(s) upon Members returning to Washington, D.C. Sincerely, /s Maxine Waters Ranking Member Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee August 10, 2011 The Honorable Mary L. Schapiro Chairman Securities and Exchange Commission 100 F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549 Dear Chairman Schapiro: I am writing to request that you conduct an investigation into whether the ratings agency Standard & Poor's (S&P) selectively disclosed its downgrade of United States government debt to certain financial institutions before it made that information available to the public. As you know, late in the day on Friday, August 5th, S&P lowered the long-term sovereign credit rating on the United States of America to ‘AA+' from ‘AAA.' This historic step contributed to significant market turmoil on Monday, August 8th, the first trading day following S&P's announcement, with U.S. stocks experiencing their worst declines since the 2008 financial crisis. In the days following the downgrade, news outlets have reported that various banking industry executives held meetings with S&P on Thursday and Friday, before S&P's Friday night public announcement of the downgrade.[1] News reports have also raised questions about heavy trading volume and a large sell-off of equity securities during the day on Friday. I believe that these reports raise certain questions about the conduct of S&P that deserve further scrutiny by the Securities and Exchange Commission, including an examination into whether any regulatory violations took place. Rule 17g-4 promulgated under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 states that "the written policies and procedures a nationally recognized statistical rating organization establishes, maintains, and enforces to prevent the misuse of material, nonpublic information pursuant to section 15E(g)(1) of the Act must include policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent…the inappropriate dissemination within and outside the nationally recognized statistical rating organization of a pending credit rating action before issuing the credit rating on the Internet or through another readily accessible means." Given the historic nature of S&P's downgrade, and the tremendous market volatility experienced after that downgrade, I feel it is appropriate for the Commission to conduct an investigation into whether S&P selectively disclosed information related to the U.S. government debt downgrade to any financial institutions, and whether any institutions that had that non-public information traded on that information prior to the official announcement. If you have any questions about this request, please contact Amanda Fischer of my office at (202) 225-2201. I appreciate your swift attention to this important matter. Sincerely, /s Maxine Waters Ranking Member Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises [1] As reported in various media outlets. For example, Gasparino, Charlie. "S&P Tipped Off Traders to Downgrade Sparking Selloff?" FOXBusiness. 8 August 2011. https://www.foxbusiness.com/industries/2011/08/08/sp-tipped-off-traders-to-downgrade-sparking-selloff/#ixzz1UXmccQY4 and Orol, Ronald D. "Law From 2006 Gives SEC Scope to Probe S&P." MarketWatch. 9 August 2011. https://www.marketwatch.com/story/law-from-2006-gives-sec-scope-to-probe-sp-2011-08-09 [2] Hughes, Sioban. "U.S. Senate Banking Committee Gathers Information on Downgrade." Dow Jones Newswires. 8 August 2011. https://online.wsj.com/article/BT-CO-20110808-721794.html [1] For example, Gasparino, Charlie. "S&P Tipped Off Traders to Downgrade Sparking Selloff?" FOXBusiness. 8 August 2011. https://www.foxbusiness.com/industries/2011/08/08/sp-tipped-off-traders-to-downgrade-sparking-selloff/#ixzz1UXmccQY4 and Orol, Ronald D. "Law From 2006 Gives SEC Scope to Probe S&P." MarketWatch. 9 August 2011. https://www.marketwatch.com/story/law-from-2006-gives-sec-scope-to-probe-sp-2011-08-09 /sites/waters.house.gov/files/migrated/UploadedFiles/Waters_SEC_Letter_8.10.11.pdf/sites/waters.house.gov/files/migrated/UploadedFiles/Waters_Bachus-Garrett_Letter_8.10.11.pdf
08.10.2011	Last Friday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) reintroduced two bills to address the needs of patients with Alzheimer's disease, their families and caregivers, the Alzheimer's Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 2798) and the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program Reauthorization (H.R. 2800). Each bill is supported by the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America and has 14 original cosponsors, including Reps. Edward Markey (D-MA) and Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), the bipartisan Co-Chairs of the Congressional Task Force on Alzheimer's disease. "Over five million people in the United States are suffering from Alzheimer's disease, and most of them are living at home under the care of family and friends," said Congresswoman Waters. H.R. 2798 authorizes grants to public and non-profit organizations to expand training and support services for families and caregivers of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The bill requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to coordinate with the Office of Minority Health and the Office of Women's Health, in order to ensure that women, minorities, and medically underserved communities will benefit from the program. "Caregiving can be extremely stressful. Caregivers face a variety of challenges, ranging from feeding, bathing, and dressing patients to helping them take their medications, managing their finances, and making legal decisions," said Congresswoman Waters. "Expanding access to training and support services will improve the ability of caregivers to provide effective, compassionate care and allow more Alzheimer's patients to remain in their homes with people who love them." H.R. 2800 helps Alzheimer's patients who wander away from their homes and are unable to tell people in the community who they are or where they live. The bill reauthorizes a Department of Justice program that helps local law enforcement officials quickly identify wandering Alzheimer's patients and reunite them with their families. This bill passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote in 2009 and passed the Senate Judiciary Committee in June of 2010, but it did not make it to the Senate floor prior to the adjournment of the 111th Congress. "H.R. 2800 is a vital tool for first responders," said Congresswoman Waters. "It saves local law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns, and it brings priceless peace of mind to Alzheimer's patients' families." Congresswoman Waters has been active on Alzheimer's issues for several years. In addition to her legislative initiatives, she has sought other opportunities to assist Alzheimer's patients and their families. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to Congressional appropriators requesting $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program in fiscal year 2012. A total of 27 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Congresswoman Waters also helped the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association obtain a $190,000 grant for caregiver education, outreach and public awareness in Los Angeles in fiscal year 2009. ###
08.10.2011	Today, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2012. A total of 56 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: We write to request that you provide an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2012. Racial and ethnic minorities are severely and disproportionately impacted by the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States. African Americans account for 45% of new HIV infections, although only 12% of the population is black. Hispanics account for 17% of new HIV infections, although only 15% of the population is Hispanic. Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders account for 2% of new HIV infections, and American Indians/Alaska Natives account for 1%. Combined, racial and ethnic minorities represent a majority of new HIV infections, new AIDS diagnosis, people living with HIV/AIDS, and deaths from AIDS. These statistics demonstrate the tremendous importance of the Minority AIDS Initiative. This critical initiative provides funds to community?based organizations and health care providers to help them address the HIV/AIDS epidemic within the minority populations they serve. The Minority AIDS Initiative is designed to enable organizations and providers in minority communities to improve their capacity to deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate care and services. Thus, it fills gaps in prevention, testing, treatment, surveillance, infrastructure, outreach and education across communities of color. We urge you to provide $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2012. We thank you for your attention to our concerns, and we look forward to working with you to expand programs for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS in minority communities throughout the United States. ### · Congresswoman Waters spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998 when she served as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus. The initiative initially received $156 million in funding, and has received approximately $400 million per year since fiscal year 2003. · During the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429), a bipartisan bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in Federal prisons. This bill was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to adjournment last year. · Also during the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137) to require health insurance companies to cover HIV tests as routine procedures.
08.10.2011	Today, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Commerce, Justice, and Science (CJS) Appropriations Subcommittee requesting a $2 million appropriation for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program in fiscal year 2012. A total of 27 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: We urge you to provide $2 million in the FY 2012 CJS appropriations bill for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. This small but effective program helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away from home and reunite them with their families. More than 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, and the majority of them live at home under the care of family and friends. It is estimated that 60% of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander away from their homes. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on vulnerable seniors. Up to 50% of wandering Alzheimer's patients will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. Since its inception more than 10 years ago, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has reunited over 12,000 wanderers with their families. It is a highly successful program whereby 88% of registrants who wander are found within the first four hours of being reported missing. The program has a 98% success rate in recovering enrollees who are reported missing. Within the past two years, the program has also begun to consider funding technology-based options to address wandering. For example, personalized wristbands that emit a tracking signal can be worn by individuals who are at risk of wandering. When caregivers notify local officials that an individual is missing, specially trained search and rescue teams conduct a search in the individual's area using a mobile tracking system. This technology can reduce search times from days to minutes. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program protects the safety of thousands of Americans affected by Alzheimer's disease and provides priceless peace-of-mind to their families. It also saves local law enforcement officials valuable time and allows them to focus on other security concerns. We therefore urge you to provide $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program in FY 2012. Families of Alzheimer's patients across the country are counting on your support. ### · During the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced a bipartisan bill to expand the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program (H.R. 908), which helps law enforcement officials identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away from home and reunite them with their families. This bill was passed by the House of Representatives on February 10, 2009, but did not pass the Senate prior to adjournment last year. · Also during the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 4123). This bill would authorize grants to improve treatment for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. This bill had 79 bipartisan cosponsors and was supported by nearly 100 national, state and local organizations. · In addition, Congresswoman Waters helped the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association obtain a $190,000 grant for caregiver education, outreach and public awareness in Los Angeles in fiscal year 2009.
08.10.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) announced she was pleased to learn that House and Senate leaders reached a deal to end the partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The deal was announced this afternoon by Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid. "I urged House and Senate leaders to end the shutdown of the FAA, and I was pleased to learn that they have done so," said Congresswoman Waters. "Now, 74,000 transportation and construction workers can finally go back to work," The FAA was forced to shut down many of its operations on July 23rd because Congress failed to pass a bill to extend its funding authorization. Consequently, 4,000 FAA employees were placed on furlough, and an additional 70,000 construction workers were left without work. Congresswoman Waters wrote to House and Senate leaders urging them to immediately reconvene the House and Senate if necessary to end the shutdown. "It was outrageous that these workers were forced to live without pay and were unable to do their jobs developing our air travel infrastructure and serving the flying public," said Congresswoman Waters. "With the unemployment rate above nine percent, no workers should be without jobs when there is work for them to do." The shutdown suspended work on numerous airport modernization projects, included a project to design and install new runway status lights at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), the world's sixth busiest airport, which is located in the Congresswoman's District. "I am especially pleased that work on the design and installation of runway status lights at LAX will resume," said the Congresswoman. "These lights will improve visibility for pilots and help them see when it is safe to enter, cross or take off on a runway." "I know there are still issues that need to be resolved before Congress can pass a long-term FAA reauthorization bill, but I hope my colleagues in Congress will allow the dedicated workers of the FAA to continue to serve the American people while these issues are being resolved," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
08.05.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) announced that tomorrow marks the 46th anniversary of the day that the Voting Rights Act was enacted. President Lyndon Johnson signed this historic legislation into law on August 6, 1965. "I am very pleased to commemorate the anniversary of the Voting Rights Act of 1965. This landmark legislation was, and remains, critical to protecting the democratic participation of African-Americans in the United States. While African-Americans have made many strides and are now represented across all levels and branches of government, we still need the VRA to ensure protections against any local or federal laws that may adversely impact minority voting rights. " In 1965, Congress enacted the Voting Rights Act (VRA) to ensure that African Americans in the South would have equal access to vote. The VRA is widely considered the most important and successful piece of civil rights legislation ever enacted. Congress designed the Act to enforce the Fifteenth Amendment and to eliminate racial restrictions of the right to vote. The exclusion of African-Americans from the franchise, together with the doctrine of "separate but equal," provided the legal foundations for the overt and often brutal regime of racial oppression known as "Jim Crow." The Act was developed in direct response to the failure of previous federal legislation and explicitly addressed both the direct and indirect obstacles to minority voting. "The right to vote is a fundamental right and is critical to our democracy. In a post Citizens United political system where powerful corporations and special interests are able to expend exorbitant amounts of money to influence elections, the right to vote remains the great equalizer. Every vote counts, and for those counted among our most vulnerable populations and communities it is sometimes the only way they are able to hold their leaders accountable or elect representatives who advocate their interests." At the height of Jim Crow, southern state legislators, who had been resentful of the limited protections that were extended to African-Americans shortly after Reconstruction, began to repeal state civil rights protections. In their concerted efforts to circumvent explicit voting protections that were afforded to African-Americans under the 14th and 15th Amendments, southern lawmakers implemented nearly a dozen policies intended to prevent blacks from voting. These measures included poll taxes, literacy tests, intimidation, and gerrymandering – redrawing election lines to make it impossible for blacks to be elected to office. "Today, as we continue to see the emergence of new state voter suppression laws, the VRA remains relevant. With only 15 months left before the next presidential election, Republican-led legislatures are rewriting voting laws to require photo identification at the polls, reduce the number of early voting days, and enhance voting restrictions against ex-felons and out-of-state students. These ‘smoke and mirror' policies are 21st Century poll taxes that are similar to the restrictive eligibility requirements that were passed during segregation. The new voter ID laws and other restrictions have the potential to disenfranchise millions of eligible voters. Minorities, poor people, seniors, and students are among those that will be impacted the most." Governor Scott Walker of Wisconsin and Governor Rick Perry of Texas both signed laws this year that would require each voter to show an official, valid photo ID to cast a ballot. In Florida, Gov. Rick Scott signed a bill to tighten restrictions on third party voter registration organizations and shorten the number of early voting days. Gov. Scott also helped to pass a ban on felon voting rights, forcing non-violent offenders to wait five years after completing their sentences to apply to have their rights restored. The Florida Legislature also passed new laws that makes it tougher for ‘get-out-the-vote' groups to register new voters and reduces the number of early voting days from 14 to 8. "As we reflect on the history and series of events that led to the passage of the Voting Rights Act, we must remain vigilant and on guard against potential policies that may undermine minority participation and diminish African-Americans' political representation. ###
08.03.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) today urged Republican and Democratic leaders of the House of Representatives and the Senate to take all necessary and appropriate action to end the partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), including – if necessary – immediately reconvening the House and the Senate to pass legislation that will allow all furloughed FAA employees to return to work. Congresswoman Waters' congressional district includes Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), the world's sixth busiest airport, which has been directly impacted by the shutdown. Congresswoman Waters expressed her concerns in a letter to Speaker John Boehner, Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, Majority Leader Harry Reid, and Minority Leader Mitch McConnell. Copies of the letter were sent to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and leaders of congressional committees with jurisdiction over the FAA. The text of the letter follows: "As the elected representative of one the world's busiest airports, I am deeply concerned by the continuing partial shutdown of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). I urge you to take all necessary and appropriate action to end this shutdown, including – if necessary – immediately reconvening the House of Representatives and the Senate to pass legislation that will allow all furloughed FAA employees to return to work. As you know, the FAA was forced to shut down many of its operations eleven days ago because Congress failed to pass legislation to extend its funding authorization. As a result, up to 4,000 FAA employees in 35 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico were placed on furlough. Those affected include many of the FAA's engineers, scientists, research analysts, administrative assistants, computer specialists, program managers, environmental protection specialists, and community planners. These government workers are being forced to live without pay and are unable to do their jobs developing our air travel infrastructure and serving the flying public. Given the fact that our nation's unemployment rate continues to hover above nine percent, it is unconscionable that the federal government would allow these workers to remain unemployed unnecessarily. Last week, the FAA was forced to issue stop work orders to construction and technology contractors for critical airport modernization projects. As a result, dozens of construction projects to build and modernize air traffic control towers and other aviation infrastructure were immediately halted. This work stoppage risks putting numerous construction workers and other private sector employees out of work as well. In my home state of California, the FAA shutdown has delayed $131.5 million in funding for airport modernization projects and furloughed 203 FAA employees in the Los Angeles area alone. But the actual impact on the Los Angeles area is far greater. Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)—which is located in my Congressional District— is the world's sixth busiest airport. LAX creates an estimated 59,000 jobs in or near the airport and has a total annual economic impact estimated at $60 billion. In 2008, 60 million passengers and 1.8 million tons of freight and mail passed through LAX. All of this economic activity depends upon the safety and efficiency of our nation's air travel system. The work stoppage is already having an immediate negative impact on LAX, delaying a much needed project to design and install new runway status lights. These lights improve visibility for pilots and help them see when it is safe to enter, cross or take off on a runway. Stopping work on important projects like this one will not only delay their completion but also significantly increase the long-term costs for taxpayers. Unfortunately, LAX is not alone in suffering from the effects of stop work orders. Nationwide, over $250 million in contracts for runway status lights have been suspended. Also affected are nearly $20 million in construction and engineering contracts to protect air traffic control towers from earthquakes and over $14 million in projects to research weather technology systems for air traffic facilities and aircraft cockpits. This is no way to run one of the top air transportation systems in the world. The partial shutdown of the FAA is also fiscally irresponsible. The shutdown is costing the federal government almost $30 million a day in lost revenue from uncollected airline taxes. The federal government has already lost approximately $300 million as a result of this impasse. If the shutdown is allowed to continue until the House of Representatives is scheduled to return on September 7th, the federal government will lose $1 billion more. This extraordinary loss of funds will only serve to exacerbate our national debt. How can we claim to be concerned about deficits and the creation and maintenance of American jobs and allow this situation to continue? I urge you to work together with Republican and Democratic leaders in both the House and the Senate in order to resolve all outstanding issues interfering with the extension of the FAA's authorization and allow all furloughed FAA employees to return to their jobs forthwith. These employees are dedicated public servants who work hard to ensure safe and efficient air travel for the flying public. They are proud of the work they do. They need their jobs, and the American people need their services." ###
08.03.2011	Congresswoman Waters released the following statement after her vote in the House of Representatives yesterday against the Republican debt ceiling package (known as the Budget Control Act of 2011): The debate on whether to raise the debt ceiling has been confusing to many Americans. I voted "no" on the bill that was debated in the House of Representatives on Monday. This bill, entitled the "Budget Control Act of 2011," was described by some as a compromise to avoid a historic default on the nation's debt commitments and a shutdown of the government on August 2nd. However, this bill was a Tea Party-led and Tea Party-dominated piece of legislation that will immediately slash $917 billion in critical investments in our most crucial programs. Of this total, over $567 billion in cuts would come from "nondefense discretionary" programs such as education, housing assistance, community development and community service block grants (CDBG and CSBG), LIHEAP (home heating assistance in the winter months for the frail elderly and other vulnerable populations), food inspectors, air traffic control, border security, highway construction and repair, scientific research and development, clean energy, and health care research. The remaining $350 billion in cuts would come from defense and security programs. However, that's not all of the cuts in this budget bill. There will be a second round of cuts made by a special committee consisting of 12 handpicked Members of Congress. The committee will meet largely in secret, and, by November, will need to come up with yet another $1.5 trillion in cuts over 10 years. It is likely that all of these cuts will be made on the backs of the middle-class and the working poor. This special committee does not have a requirement to include revenue in their budget balancing, and there is no guarantee that Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security will be protected from cuts. Additionally, Republican leaders have already said that they will refuse to raise taxes on the wealthy or close tax loopholes in this second phase of deficit reduction. Congress will have to vote on the deficit reduction plan produced by this committee. If Congress does not approve the plan, $1.2 trillion in programs and services will be automatically cut, across-the-board. While half of these automatic cuts would come from defense and security programs, the other half would be in the form of cuts to domestic programs. While Social Security, Medicaid, veterans programs, and civilian and military pay are supposedly exempted, there are many ways that these automatic cuts could change Medicare we know it. We already know that this plan would cut doctor and hospital reimbursements by 2 percent, and would drive medical professionals out of the business of providing health care to seniors and the most vulnerable in our society. While I believe America must honor its obligations and pay its creditors, the provisions demanded by my Republican colleagues in exchange for an increase in the debt ceiling were totally unreasonable and will increase unemployment in an already weak economy that needs stimulating, rather than more policies that kill jobs. The Republican plan does nothing to reduce unemployment, which is one of the primary drivers of our debt. It fails to consider revenue increases, including a repeal of the $2.8 trillion Bush tax cuts. It focuses its cuts on programs that serve children and working families. And there are no guarantees that the special committee would not ultimately reduce Social Security benefits, or limit access to or eligibility for Medicare or Medicaid. An approach to deficit reduction that places the burden on seniors and the middle-class, while not requesting any sacrifice from special interests or wealthy Americans, is simply unacceptable. I believe we can and should pursue a more balanced approach to deficit reduction that better reflects America's priorities. ###
08.01.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) announced that today marks the 46th anniversary of the day that the Medicare program was enacted. President Lyndon Johnson signed Medicare into law on July 30, 1965. "I am proud of the creation of Medicare," said Congresswoman Waters. "Medicare was one of the most important achievements of the Democratic Party, and I will always vote to protect it." Medicare provides affordable and reliable health coverage to 47 million Americans from all walks of life. Medicare covers more than 36 million white Americans, 4 million African Americans, 3 million Hispanic Americans and almost 2 million Asian Americans. Medicare is popular with seniors because it provides a comprehensive set of health care benefits, and they know they can depend upon it. "Today, House Republicans are trying to balance the budget on the backs of Medicare recipients and other low- and middle-income Americans, while refusing to require big oil companies, special interest groups, and millionaires to pay their fair share of taxes," said the Congresswoman. "American seniors – and their families – deserve better!" In April, House Republicans passed a budget that would end Medicare as we know it and replace it with a voucher program. Under the Republican budget, current Medicare beneficiaries would pay more money for preventive health services and prescription drugs, while Americans under the age of 55 would receive a voucher-like payment to purchase health insurance from a private insurance company. "Over the last 46 years, Democrats have fought continuously to protect and strengthen Medicare," said Congresswoman Waters. "Democrats have often enacted legislation to expand Medicare benefits and extend Medicare's solvency. Last year, Democrats passed the Affordable Care Act, which provided free preventive health services to Medicare beneficiaries and extended Medicare's solvency for an additional eight years, and we did it without a single Republican vote. I will continue to work with my colleagues to protect Medicare so that it will always be there for current and future generations of American seniors." ###
07.29.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) made the following statement in the Congressional Record yesterday, during debate on H.R. 2584, the Interior and Environment Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2012: "I rise to oppose the underlying bill and the numerous extreme, anti-environmental riders included therein. This bill is full of anti-environmental riders. These riders are legislative provisions that were attached to an appropriations bill because they are far too extreme to pass Congress on their own merits. Together, these riders undermine decades of progress protecting our nation's environmental heritage. They threaten the air we breathe and the water we drink. One of the riders in this bill stops the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from giving Clean Water Act protection to critical headwaters and streams that supply drinking water to about 117 million Americans. Another rider prevents the EPA from updating its stormwater discharge regulations to manage polluted stormwater runoff, which contaminates water supplies and contributes to beach closures. Last year was the second highest year on record for beach closings and advisories. Yet another rider changes current law to eliminate requirements for chemical companies to obtain permits for pesticides entering rivers and streams. This will mean even more of these toxic poisons in our lakes, rivers, fishing places, and drinking water supplies. The Cross-State Air Pollution rider prohibits EPA from implementing a rule to protect communities from pollution caused by power plants upwind of them. EPA estimates that this rule will prevent up to 34,000 premature deaths, 15,000 heart attacks, 400,000 cases of aggravated asthma, and 1.8 million sick days a year beginning in 2014. The Mercury and Air Toxics rider blocks EPA from finalizing a rule reducing emissions of mercury and other toxics from power plants. EPA estimates that this rule could deliver as much as $140 billion in health benefits and prevent 17,000 premature deaths each year. The Cement Kilns rider prohibits EPA from enforcing limits on emissions of mercury, particulate matter, and hydrochloric acid from cement kilns. These limits would reduce mercury pollution and fine particulate matter from cement kilns by 92 percent, preventing up to 2,500 premature deaths and avoiding 17,000 cases of aggravated asthma each year. Finally, the Offshore Drilling rider allows oil companies to pollute more by exempting support vessels involved in offshore oil drilling from regulation. This provision undermines the ability of the EPA to ensure that oil drilling on the Outer Continental Shelf proceeds safely, responsibly, and with opportunities for stakeholder input. We've already seen from the BP oil spill how dangerous offshore oil drilling can be. On top of all of these dangerous riders, this bill slashes funding for the EPA by 18 percent below the 2011 level, in addition to the 16 percent cut that was inflicted on the agency when compared to the 1010 level. These cuts would leave the Environmental Protection Agency unable to effectively regulate pollution or protect public health, even when it is not prevented from doing so by an anti-environmental rider. This entire bill is a threat to our public lands and our public health, and I urge my colleagues to vote against it." ###
07.29.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) joined her colleagues yesterday to call for a comprehensive effort to save the lives of millions of people affected by famine and drought in the Horn of Africa. She made the following statement in the Congressional Record: "The people of the Horn of Africa are facing a devastating crisis. A severe drought has left millions of children, women, and men in Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya and Djibouti malnourished. Many are on the verge of starvation. According to the World Food Program, more than 11 million people in the Horn of Africa require food assistance due to the drought. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) reports that below-normal spring rains in the eastern Horn of Africa led to below-normal harvests and shortages of water and grazing resources for livestock. Livestock health has deteriorated markedly, and milk production has declined significantly. Food prices throughout the eastern Horn of Africa continued to rise during the month of June, contributing to food insecurity for the population. The conditions in Somalia are especially severe. According to the Famine Early Warning Systems Network (FEWS NET), which is supported by USAID, two areas of southern Somalia are already experiencing famine. Famine exists when at least 20 percent of the population has extremely limited access to basic food requirements, acute malnutrition exceeds 30 percent, and the death rate exceeds 2 out of every 10,000 people per day for the entire population. Death rates are above the famine threshold in two areas and are elevated across the south. Tens of thousands of people have already died in the past three months. FEWS NET projects that famine will spread across all regions of southern Somalia within one to two months. The network estimates that 3.7 million people are in crisis nationwide, and 3.2 million of them require immediate, lifesaving assistance. These severe conditions are expected to remain at least through December of this year. FEWS NET has declared this Africa's worst food security crisis since Somalia's 1991-1992 famine. The effects of the drought in Somalia have been exacerbated by the lack of an effective central government and continuing conflict with al-Shabaab terrorists. Drought has also affected Kenya and Ethiopia, where the situation is complicated by the arrival of large numbers of refugees from Somalia, many of them suffering from acute malnutrition. The U.S. Government has already spent a total of approximately $458.7 million on humanitarian assistance in the Horn of Africa during fiscal year 2011. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton issued a statement on July 20th expressing concern on behalf of the U.S. government. She noted that additional international assistance for the region is needed and announced an additional $28 million in U.S. assistance to Somalia and Somali refugees in Kenya. However, more needs to be done. FEWS NET has called for an immediate, large-scale, and comprehensive response to save tens of thousands of lives. I am deeply concerned that the State and Foreign Operations appropriations bill for fiscal year 2012, which was marked up yesterday, will not provide sufficient funds for critical priorities like these. The bill includes an 18 percent cut in development assistance, which funds projects such as food security and basic education. The bill also cuts international disaster assistance by 12 percent compared to the fiscal year 2011 level and a shocking 42 percent compared to the fiscal year 2010 level. Such drastically reduced funding levels will not allow the United States to help millions of people in need or respond to emergencies, such as famines, hurricanes and earthquakes. I have seen children who were starving. It is a terrible sight to see. We cannot sit by idly and allow thousands of children to die and not take any action to help them. To do so would be contrary to our national interests and contrary to our values. I call upon my colleagues and indeed all Americans to show compassion to our brothers and sisters in Africa. And I call upon the U.S. Government to organize a comprehensive effort to save the lives of millions of hungry people throughout the Horn of Africa." ###
07.21.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today celebrated National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day and encouraged the nation's health care workers to be tested for HIV "Doctors, nurses, and other clinicians play a vital role in providing access to HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services, and in encouraging patients to get tested for HIV. I urge all clinicians to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS services in their communities, and I urge all clinicians to take an HIV test and set a good example for their patients to follow," said Congresswoman Waters, who has been tested for HIV herself in order to demonstrate the ease and importance of HIV testing.Congresswoman Waters introduced a resolution, H.Res. 362, in honor of the fourth annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, and 24 Members of Congress cosponsored her resolution. The resolution urges physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services. It also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. "There are over one million people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States today, and one out of every five of them does not know it. By encouraging their patients to be tested for HIV, doctors can enable infected individuals to access appropriate medical care and begin taking action to avoid spreading the virus to others," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring several other initiatives in the 112th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. The Initiative has received approximately $400 million per year since fiscal year 2003. On May 20, 2011, Congresswoman Waters wrote a letter to congressional appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative for fiscal year 2012 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. A total of 56 Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. 2. Preventing the spread of AIDS: Congresswoman Waters plans to reintroduce the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429 in the 111th Congress), which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to adjournment last year. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. 3. Encouraging HIV screening: She also plans to reintroduce the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137 in the 111th Congress). This bill requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore enables more Americans to be tested for HIV. This bill had 46 cosponsors representing both political parties in the 111th Congress. ###
07.20.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), issued the following statement on the passing of Lillian Harkless-Mobley, her friend and iconic South Los Angeles community activist. "I am heartbroken that one of my closest and dearest friends, Lillian Mobley, has passed away. I worked with Lillian - known throughout South Los Angeles communities as "Ms. Mobley"- for over three decades. We have marched together, participated in protests together, and fought off anyone who attacked our community together. Lillian was my ‘shero.' "Lillian Mobley is without a doubt the most accomplished and successful community activist South Los Angeles has ever had. She helped found numerous community institutions and organizations that include Martin Luther King Jr. Hospital, Charles Drew Medical Center, Los Angeles Southwest College, Black Women's Forum, the Lillian Mobley South Central Multipurpose Senior Citizens Center, Mothers in Action, Grandma's Hands Los Angeles Birthing Project, Watts Towers Community Action Council and others. She is on the Walk of Fame in Watts, has a building named after her at the Maxine Waters Employment Preparation Center, a clinic at Martin Luther King Jr. Hospital that also houses a bust of her image, the Mother of Africa statue at WLCAC was dedicated to her as well as the amphitheater at Watts Towers and a Family Housing Center, and of course the senior center she founded that now carries her name. "She served on the board of over 20 organizations and was highly sought after by politicians hoping to win her endorsement to be elected to office. And it was only if Lillian believed that their election to office would benefit the community and help preserve the very institutions she helped to create like Martin Luther King Jr. Hospital would she support them. "Lillian Mobley is one of the icons of South Central and the Watts communities of Los Angeles that has helped to educate the city and the country about the problems of poor people and working folks and the struggles that they encounter on a daily basis. She was the voice that articulated their pain, their challenges, their hopes and dreams. Lillian has joined the legendary African American women who have passed on but clearly left their marks on the hearts and souls of the people they fought for. Women like Mary Henry, Caffie Greene, Jonnie Tillman, Margaret Wright, Edna Aliewine and Opal Jones. "We spent countless hours in meetings on issues related to health, seniors, youth, and education. Lillian was not only concerned with these issues, she tackled them with vigor. She was all about doing the work, even the ‘grunt work' as she liked to call it, to bring resources to help families and youth in South Central Los Angeles and Watts. She did all of this while battling with her own health issues. If Lillian was not at an important meeting it was only because she couldn't attend either due to her grueling dialysis schedule or because she was hospitalized. Lillian was a woman before her time who maintained her empathy and concern for the young and old. She was truly humble in her work and never asked or expected any recognition form of recognition from others. "One of the greatest experiences we had together was taking 80 African American women on a trip to Africa. Lillian was so happy and proud to travel to the motherland and said it was one of the most enjoyable moments of her life. I will hold on to this and other fond memories I have of Lillian to help come to grips with this devastating loss. "I join with other elected officials, community leaders, and the residents of South Central, Watts and South Los Angeles in paying homage to our queen, Lillian Mobley." ###
07.20.2011	Congresswoman Waters (CA), Ranking Member on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, today led 11 of her colleagues in the House of Representatives urging U.S. bank regulators to publicly release information regarding the steps that mortgage servicers are taking to prevent illegal foreclosure practices. An identical letter was sent by U.S. Senator Robert Menendez (NJ), Chairman of the Senate Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development, and nine additional Senators. "Recent news reports indicate that ‘robo-signing' and other improper, and potentially illegal, practices continue unabated despite mortgage servicers pledging to regulators months ago that they would stop," Congresswoman Waters noted. "It's clear that, despite claims that they take these issues seriously, the banking regulators have failed to put an end to these predatory practices. It is therefore essential that documents submitted by banks to regulators regarding their mortgage servicing practices be made public, so that Congress and the public can hold servicers accountable." Enforcement actions were initiated by federal regulators because of the "robo-signing" scandal from last year, which revealed many servicers were wrongfully foreclosing on homeowners and not following existing foreclosure procedures and laws. Robo-signing is when banks falsely swear that they have reviewed property documents that are necessary to foreclose on a homeowner's house. Recently both the Associated Press and Reuters reported that despite regulators' assurances to the contrary, illegal robo-signing allegedly remains rampant in both foreclosure and non-foreclosure cases. The request for disclosures is also based upon concern over the fact the consultants performing foreclosure reviews have conflicts of interest since they are chosen by the mortgage servicers they are hired to investigate and have done past or future business with those same mortgage servicers. Members of Congress are requesting public release of Engagement Letters, Action Plans, Foreclosure Reviews, and other plans, policies, or processes submitted by mortgage servicers or third-party servicers to ensure that abuses in foreclosure practices are not being ignored by the review process. "When the consumer protection performance reviews of banks are being conducted by outside consultants hand-picked by the banks themselves, I must question the regulators' process. We need to shine more light on this issue to hold both the servicers, and their regulators, accountable," Congresswoman Waters said. When news reports on robo-signing surfaced in November 2010, Congresswoman Waters immediately wrote to major mortgage servicers and the regulators of servicers asking for a foreclosure moratorium pending a comprehensive examination of servicer practices. Congresswoman Waters also held the first Congressional hearing in the House on robo-signing and wrongful foreclosures in November 2010, and she continues to press banking regulators for more aggressive action on servicing fraud. The letter, which is below and attached, is signed by Representatives Frank, Ellison, Grijalva, Watt, Clay, Gutierrez, Miller (NC), Brown, Kaptur, Schakowsky, and Woolsey. The companion letter in the Senate has been signed by Senators Blumenthal, Franken, Akaka, Begich, Sanders, Cantwell, Tester, Rockefeller and Sherrod Brown. ###
07.20.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) honored Nelson Mandela, the former President of South Africa, on the occasion of his 93rd birthday. Nelson Mandela served 27 years in prison in South Africa for his opposition to the racist system of apartheid. Following his release from prison in 1990, he negotiated an end to apartheid in South Africa. He was elected President of South Africa in the country's first free, multi-racial, democratic elections and served in that position from 1994 to 1999. Congresswoman Waters sent him the following birthday message: As I write this letter to wish you a very happy 93rd birthday and join with people around the world to wish you many more years of good health, peace and prosperity, I find myself reflecting on the times of my career that have been most gratifying to me. Among those times are the years I spent in the California State Assembly, when I introduced legislation to divest state pension funds from businesses that did business in the apartheid government of South Africa. I worked continuously for nine years to get that landmark legislation signed into law. I consider it the single most important public policy achievement of my 34 years in public service. My first trip to South Africa took place after the ban on the African National Congress (ANC) was lifted and the international boycott of South Africa was ended. During that inspirational trip, I joined with other international representatives in welcoming the end of the ban on the ANC and working for your release from prison and the end of apartheid in South Africa. As the Co-Chair of the Free South Africa Movement in the United States, I worked with the tremendous coalition that was built up in the United States to end apartheid. During my years in this struggle, there are moments I will never forget. I will never forget the weekly meetings I held in Los Angeles organizing our efforts to end apartheid. I will never forget the sit-in we held at the South African Consulate in Los Angeles or my arrest at the South African Embassy in Washington, DC. Most of all, I will never forget the day you walked out of prison a free man and went on to create the greatest change in direction in a country's history of my lifetime. I was deeply honored to have had the opportunity to lead the effort to organize a rally of 90,000 people at the Los Angeles Coliseum to greet you and welcome you to Los Angeles and the United States following your release from prison. The memory of the magnificent day you were set free is only partially matched by the day you were officially sworn-in as President of South Africa while the South African air force flew overhead. I will never forget watching heads of state from all over the world march in to honor you that day. I have pictures of you in both of my houses in Los Angeles and Washington, DC, as well as in both of my congressional offices. I count among my most important acts of human service the work I did on behalf of your courageous leadership on behalf of the people of South Africa. I will always cherish the honor of receiving the Republic of South Africa's "Order of the Companions of O.R. Tambo in Silver" Award for "dedicating her life to the upliftment of the poor and her outstanding contribution to the struggle against apartheid and the attainment of a democratic, non-racial and a non-sexist South Africa." I love you. I hold you in the highest esteem. Your courage, integrity, and commitment is unmatched by anyone I have ever known. Happy birthday! ###
06.24.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world through increased research, prevention, testing, and treatment, released the following statement today in recognition of National HIV Testing Day: "Monday is National HIV Testing Day. It's a day to acknowledge the importance of HIV testing. But it is also a day to recognize the progress that has been made to improve awareness about HIV/AIDS and expand access to testing and treatment. "Prudent federal policies and programs have improved our nation's ability to prevent, diagnose and treat HIV/AIDS among all Americans affected by the disease. The Minority AIDS Initiative, which I developed in 1998 when I was chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, has strengthened the capacity of racial and ethnic minority communities to respond to the epidemic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) continue to promote awareness and prevention and encourage HIV testing to identify those who are infected. Advances in research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), together with treatment programs such as the Ryan White program and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), have allowed people living with HIV/AIDS to live longer and more productive lives. "The passage of the Affordable Care Act has begun the process of reforming our nation's health system so that all Americans will have access to the health care they need. This law is especially important for people living with HIV/AIDS, many of whom have been denied health insurance coverage because their infection is a pre-existing condition. "But there is still much work to do. More than one million people in the United States are living with HIV/AIDS, and one out of five of them does not know it. That is why everyone should get tested for HIV. Only by getting tested can people living with HIV find out about their infection, begin life-extending treatment, and take action to avoid spreading the virus to others. "Of course, HIV testing is not enough. We must also make sure that those who test positive can get the treatment they need. "I am deeply concerned that the progress we have made against this devastating disease is in danger of being reversed. There are growing numbers of infected Americans who are on waiting lists for ADAP because Congress has not provided sufficient funding for this life-saving program. Congress is considering drastic cuts in funding for critical public health programs like Medicare, Medicaid, NIH research, CDC prevention and testing programs, Ryan White and ADAP. Meanwhile, the House of Representatives has made repeated efforts to repeal, defund, and dismantle the Affordable Care Act and allow health insurance companies to continue to deny coverage to Americans living with HIV/AIDS. "I call upon all Americans to take responsibility for their health and get tested for HIV, and I call upon my colleagues in Congress to maintain funding for HIV/AIDS research, prevention, testing and treatment and support full implementation of the Affordable Care Act so that people living with HIV/AIDS can continue to be productive members of our society." ### Congresswoman Waters spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998 when she served as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus. The initiative initially received $156 million in funding, and has received approximately $400 million per year since fiscal year 2003. In a letter dated May 20, 2011, Congresswoman Waters and 55 of her colleagues requested $610 million for this program in fiscal year 2012. During the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429), a bipartisan bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in federal prisons. This bill was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to adjournment last year. She plans to reintroduce the bill this year. During the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters also introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137) to require health insurance companies to cover routine HIV tests. She plans to reintroduce the bill this year.
06.16.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters was invited to speak before the Drug Policy Alliance's press conference on the 40th Anniversary of Nixon's Declaration of a ‘War on Drugs' today. Rep. Waters delivered the following remarks: I want to thank the Drug Policy Alliance for the invitation to mark the 40th Anniversary of President Nixon's Declaration of a "War on Drugs." Indeed, since President Nixon announced the war, billions of dollars have been wasted and millions of lives have been lost in what amounts to an utter failure of public policy. I also want to thank and commend my colleagues – Reps: John Conyers and Bobby Scott – for their tireless work to address these issues in Congress. Together, we have led congressional efforts to enact meaningful reforms. However, despite all that we have learned, we have only been able to achieve incremental change. The Fair Sentencing Act that was signed into law last year is progress (reduced the disparity from 100-1 to 18-1), but it does not go far enough. We have to continue the fight! It was reported this week, that the United States has spent $1 trillion in the last 40 years to fight the war on drugs, and we have very little to show for such an exorbitant amount of money. African-Americans and Latino communities have been the real casualties of the domestic war on drugs. According to U.S. Sentencing Commission figures, no class of drug is as racially skewed as crack in terms of numbers of offenses. According to the Sentencing Commission, 79 percent of 5,669 sentenced crack offenders in 2009 were African American, versus 10 percent who were Caucasian and 10 percent who were Hispanic. In the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986, and at the height of the public outcry over crack-cocaine, Congress acted hastily, without sufficient hearings or research, and enacted hard line anti-drug penalties that targeted low-level drug offenders. These statutes included new, long mandatory minimum sentences for such offenders. Twenty-five years later, mandatory drug sentences have broken communities and destroyed lives. The result has been the incarceration of thousands of low level drug offenders – most of whom are minorities – and an exponential boom in the Federal prison population. According to the Bureau of Prisons, when the 1986 drug law containing lengthy mandatory minimum sentences passed, the prison population was 36,000. Today, the federal prison population is over 215,000 prisoners, an increase of nearly 600 percent in 26 years. It costs taxpayers approximately $26,000 to keep one prisoner in federal prison for one year. Mandatory minimum sentences have had an especially devastating impact on the African-American community. The United States Sentencing Commission concluded that "mandatory penalty statutes are used inconsistently" and disproportionately affect African-American defendants. For this reason, I have worked over the last 20 years to raise awareness and travel across the country to educate communities about cocaine sentencing disparities and mandatory minimums. I have also hosted many workshops on the subject during the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's Annual Legislative Conference. In addition, I have consistently introduced legislation in Congress that would reverse the effects of mandatory minimum prison sentences. Today, I will re-introduce the Major Drug Traffickers Prosecution Act of 2011. This bill is similar to previous legislation that I have introduced since 1999, and it would begin to implement one of the suggested criminal justice reforms recommended by the Global Commission on Drug Policy. The Major Drug Traffickers Prosecution Act of 2011 will: curb federal prosecutions of low-level and non-violent drug offenders; re-focus scarce federal resources to prosecute major drug kingpins, and give courts and judges greater discretion to place drug users on probation or suspend the sentence entirely. Under this bill, judges will be able to make individualized determinations and take into account a defendant's individual and unique circumstances rather than being held to a stringent sentencing requirement prescribed by Congress. We now have the opportunity to identify some consensus priorities regarding the changes needed in our federal sentencing policy, including mandatory minimums. It is time to take the message to the White House, to the Republican leadership, and across the States. Let's work together and end this war. We have the research and empirical, and now it is time to take action! Once again, I thank you all for your advocacy in advancing criminal justice reforms, and look forward to continuing this very important work with you! ###
06.09.2011	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA) applauds the Treasury Department's enforcement of Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) requirements on mortgage servicers: "More than two years after the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) was launched, I am pleased that the Administration has finally decided to take enforcement seriously and penalize three servicers who have, as a matter of standard practice, foreclosed on millions of homeowners, often without properly screening them for modifications or otherwise following program rules. On March 28, I sent a letter, along with a total of 50 House Democrats, demanding that the Treasury Department begin fining servicers who fail to abide by HAMP requirements. I am pleased that the Treasury Department took our call for enforcement seriously, and worked quickly to implement a new payment-withholding regime. We sent this letter because it was clear that a lack of consequences for misbehavior has encouraged servicers to cut-corners and even wrongfully foreclose on homeowners. Through Congressional hearings and conversations with my constituents, it became clear that lost paperwork, conflicting and confusing guidance from servicer staff, forged documents, and even unsubstantiated loan modification denials were the norm in the industry. Nicely asking mortgage servicers to follow the rules hasn't worked; I agree with the Treasury Department that it's time to start withholding funds. Finally, I want to make clear that I consider this to be just a first step in straightening out the servicing industry. I hope that the Treasury Department continues to withhold payments for badly performing servicers, and I will continue to push our banking regulators to use their examination and enforcement powers to clean-up industry practices. Moreover, I continue to believe that state attorneys general should pursue a strong settlement with servicers, and demand not only steep fines, but drastic changes in servicer behavior." ###
06.03.2011	"I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my dear friend, Geronimo Pratt, who I loved and respected. Geronimo sacrificed years of his life in prison for a crime he didn't commit. Thankfully, he was exonerated and he dedicated his life before, during, and after his long overdue exoneration to the uplifting of people and to justice and freedom. "After his release, he worked on behalf of people in his hometown of Morgan City, Louisiana, donating monies that he received from the settlement stemming from his unlawful imprisonment to many local programs. One of the most wonderful experiences I've ever had was visiting his hometown and witnessing first hand his efforts to bring housing and other opportunities to people of color in the city. One of his joys in life was taking his boat down to the bayou. I recall one time when he invited my husband, me, and other friends on his boat and pointed out alligators and other wildlife to us. "But he wasn't just content with helping those in his hometown. He also wanted to help those in underdeveloped countries, which was why he decided to move to Tanzania. There, he worked with friends to develop resources and to uplift struggling communities in that country. "He's a hero in my book. I'm going to miss him."
05.26.2011	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 1540, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012, and includes an amendment authored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.). The amendment provides a preference for potential Department of Defense (DOD) contactors that carry out certain investment and philanthropic activities to bolster education, training, and employment in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines. The Congresswoman's amendment is intended to promote enhanced public and private partnerships, and civic and investment activities to strengthen our nation's STEM pipeline and ensure that the United States continues to produce highly skilled STEM professionals that are both diverse and innovative. Her remarks describing the amendment, as prepared for delivery to the Rules Committee – which made her amendment in order, thereby allowing it to proceed to and be accepted by the full House – are below: "I would like to thank my colleague from California, Chairman David Dreier; Ranking Member Louise Slaughter; and all of the members of the committee for allowing me to testify today. I am here to request that the Rules Committee waive all points of order and allow me to offer an amendment to H.R. 1540, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012. My amendment provides a preference for potential Department of Defense (DOD) contractors that carry out certain investment and philanthropic activities in the United States. My amendment to H.R. 1540 provides a preference (not a hard line criteria or quota – merely one or many activities DOD can consider) for potential Department of Defense (DOD) contactors that carry out certain investment and philanthropic activities to bolster education, training, and employment in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) disciplines. My amendment is intended to promote enhanced public and private partnerships, civic, and investment activities to strengthen our nation's STEM pipeline and ensure that the United States continues to produce highly skilled STEM professionals that are both diverse and innovative. Specifically, my amendment would encourage DOD to consider potential contactors that: make investments in programming and curriculum development in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) programs within elementary and secondary schools; enhance undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs in STEM disciplines; make personnel available to advise and assist college and university faculty in the performance in the performance of STEM research; establish partnerships with historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and minority institutions for the purpose of training students in scientific disciplines; awards scholarships, fellowships, and establishes cooperative work-education programs in scientific disciplines, and establishes other programs and outreach efforts to strengthen STEM programs in the United States. Recent studies and reports indicate that America is falling behind in graduating engineers, computer scientists, and IT professionals. Therefore, we need to promote more public and private partnerships, federal policies, civic, and investment activities to strengthen our nation's STEM pipeline and ensure that the United States continues to produce highly skilled STEM professionals that are both diverse and innovative. STEM jobs pay more than double in comparison to jobs in the service sector. STEM jobs are important to the economy and our nation's future. Part of the reason they pay so well is because they create additional jobs through prompting innovation in various sectors, leading to overall economic growth. Last year, DOD concluded that the "significant national decline" in the number of U.S. college graduates with science, technology, engineering and mathematics degrees is "harming our national security." According to the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the Pentagon's research agency, the issue is of "national importance" and "affects our capacity to maintain a technological lead in critical skills and disciplines" on the international stage. While improvements in STEM education will take time to yield results, in the mid-term, efforts to increase domestic supply of qualified and diverse tech professionals can be enhanced by training those individuals who are already skilled in computer science and engineering proficiencies. Applied training provided by corporate and academic sponsors, complemented by a community of mentors, could transition already talented workers into information technology professionals. My amendment will promote this type of activity by signaling to potential contractors that the federal government is serious about improving STEM education and creating a pipeline that will protect the nation's economic future. I thank the Rules Committee for considering my amendment and respectfully request that you allow me to offer this amendment on the House floor." ###
05.26.2011	Rep. Donald M. Payne (NJ), Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY), Rep. Frederica Wilson (FL), and Rep. Maxine Waters (CA) made a joint statement in response to the eviction and destruction of camps on public property in the Delmas district of Port-au-Prince: "On Monday, May 23, 2011, our offices were alarmed at the startling news that three camps of internally displaced persons in the Delmas neighborhood of Port-au-Prince were effectively destroyed. This included the park at the intersection of Delmas Road and Airport Road which was destroyed at the hands of the Haitian police, under direction of Mayor Wilson Jeudy. This camp is home to several hundred people and is a microcosm of the over 800,000 officially-recognized displaced persons in Haiti. It is even more disturbing that this incident occurred during the day while many Haitian women and men were out in search of employment. Those who stayed behind witnessed the destruction of their belongings while some were violently beaten with batons by police. "During the same time, the United Nations Office for Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (UN OCHA) Camp Coordination and Camp Management Cluster sent correspondence about the cancellation of this week's cluster meeting, as well as the agenda for the next meeting which includes a discussion on the Martelly Administration's ‘Return and Relocation' pilot program. However, there was no acknowledgement about the violent obliteration of camps in Port-au-Prince. This is of great concern, and as United States Members of Congress, we will thoroughly look into this matter. "It is mind-boggling that any government official would condone or ignore such actions during a time when Haiti is seeking to recover from the crisis stemming from the January 2010 earthquake and the subsequent sluggish rebuilding process. Facing hostile conditions, including adverse weather, violence, and disease, shelter and work are the priorities for every displaced Haitian and must not be compromised. During President Martelly's visit to the United States, we were all encouraged by his assertion that Haiti will face a new day—a new beginning. We extended, and continue to extend, our arms to assist and support the people of Haiti and its government as it transitions upward. We will not, however, idly stand by and hear such reports of evictions, without seeking an explanation or taking action. "We understand that the land issues are extremely complex in Haiti and that there is an urgent need to create the appearance of progress. However, this cannot be done by evicting people off of public land with no place to go. There must be an accelerated effort to remove the rubble and repair livable buildings, and build permanent shelter. As representatives who have historically supported the advancement and prosperity of Haiti and its Diaspora, it is our hope that President Martelly, the United States and the international community are aware of these forced evictions and are taking adequate steps to address this issue." ###
05.25.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) delivered the following statement from the House floor yesterday, during debate on H.R. 1216, which eliminates guaranteed funding for the Teaching Health Center program. The Congresswoman joined her colleagues in the Congressional Progressive Caucus during a two hour-long mini-filibuster to expose the Republican plan to end Medicare as we know it: Watch Rep. Waters' video here Watch the CPC compilation video here "Madam Chairman and members, this is just one more trick by Republicans to dismantle health care reform. They are going after the training of primary doctors. We need more primary doctors, even if there was no health care reform. There are many communities throughout this country that have no primary health care physicians. Our Nation is facing a serious shortage of primary care physicians. Primary care physicians are an essential part of a successful health care system. They are the first point of contact for people of all ages who need basic health care services, whether they are working people with the employer-provided health insurance, low-income children on Medicaid, or seniors on Medicare. The Republicans have made it clear that they are not concerned about access to basic health care services. The Republican budget for fiscal year 2012 turns Medicare into a voucher program, slashes Medicaid by more than $700 billion over the next decade, and cancels the expansion of health insurance coverage, which was included in the The Affordable Care Act last year. The Republican budget cuts to Medicare are especially detrimental to current and future Medicare recipients. Under the Republican budget, individuals who are 54 and younger will not get government-paid Medicare benefits like their parents and grandparents. Instead, they will receive a voucher-like payment to purchase health insurance from a private insurance company. There will be no oversight to these private programs. We will not be able to contain the cost. We will not be able to mandate what the basic services should be. As a matter of fact, we know the stories about the HMOs and the fact that they had accountants who determined what care you could get, not physicians who had the knowledge and the ability to determine what you need. When the first of these seniors retire in 2022, they will receive an average of $8,000 to buy a private insurance plan. That is much less than the amount of the subsidy Members of Congress receive for our health plans today. The coverage gap in the Medicare prescription drug program will continue indefinitely. Under the Affordable Care Act, this so-called doughnut hole is scheduled to be phased out. The Republican budget will allow seniors to continue to pay exorbitant prices for their prescriptions when they reach the doughnut hole. The Republican budget also gradually increases the age of eligibility for Medicare from 65 to 67 years of age. Madam Chairman, the Republican budget is also detrimental to Americans who depend again on Medicaid, including low-income children, disabled Americans, and seniors in nursing homes. The budget converts Medicaid into a block grant program and allows States to reduce benefits, cut payments to doctors, even freeze enrollment. Medicaid funding is slashed by more than $700 billion over the next decade. That is over one-third of the program's funding. Meanwhile, the Republican budget extends the Bush-era tax cuts beyond their expiration in 2012 and cuts the top individual tax rate down to 25 percent from 35 percent. According to the Center for Tax Justice, the Republican budget cuts taxes for the richest 1 percent of Americans by 15 percent while raising taxes for the lowest income 20 percent of Americans by 12 percent. The national shortage of primary care doctors is not a problem for multimillionaires. They will always be able to find a doctor who will treat them and pay them whatever they ask for. But most American seniors need well-trained primary care physicians and Medicare benefits that they can rely on. I urge my colleagues to oppose the underlying bill, oppose the drastic cuts to Medicaid, and oppose the Republican plan to dismantle Medicare. They're trying to dismantle health care reform piece by piece, inch by inch. Today it's an attack on training needed by primary care physicians. What is it tomorrow? We know that they have a strategy that includes hundreds of bills that would dismantle, again, piece by piece Medicare reform. It's not fair, Madam Chair and Members. Health care reform so that all Americans are covered is something that we should all support." ###
05.25.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee and a leading champion for homeowners, delivered the following remarks today during a Subcommittee on Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity Hearing on "Legislative Proposals to Determine the Future Role of FHA, RHS and GNMA in the Single-and Multi-Family Mortgage Markets." She also reintroduced H.R. 1977, her legislation to reform the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), which overwhelmingly passed the House in the 111th Congress by a vote of 406-4. Congresswoman Waters' legislation will strengthen FHA's finances and save taxpayers money, while still providing affordable mortgage insurance to the individuals FHA is intended to serve. The bill also provides FHA with enhanced authority to crack down on lenders engaged in fraud or misrepresentation or failing to comply with FHA guidelines for originating or underwriting loans. In addition, H.R. 1977 requires FHA to improve its internal controls to better manage risk and to provide transparent data to the public and to Congress. This includes improving monitoring of early defaults and claims, tracking mortgage information by loan servicer, providing FHA with the ability to contract out for additional credit risk analysis, requiring mortgagees to report to FHA when they stop buying loans from other mortgagees and requiring a Government Accountability Office study on FHA and Ginnie Mae. The bill also creates a new Deputy Assistant Secretary at FHA for Risk Management and Regulatory Affairs. Congressman Barney Frank (D-MA), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee, and Congressman Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Ranking Member of the Housing, Insurance, and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, are original cosponsors. Today's Subcommittee Opening Statement: "Madam Chairwoman, thank you for holding this hearing on the future of FHA, the Rural Housing Service and Ginnie Mae. FHA's role has grown more significant in the years following the financial crisis of 2008, providing a crucial backstop in our mortgage market and ensuring continued access to safe and affordable products while the private market constricted. Of course, with this increased role, it is appropriate to increase oversight and scrutiny of FHA. That's why FHA was one of my top priorities when I chaired the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee during the last Congress. In order to continue my work from the 111th Congress, yesterday I reintroduced the FHA Reform Act. Last year, I was able to work well with then-Ranking Member Capito on an FHA bill that overwhelming passed the House on a bipartisan basis. I hope that I can work with Chairwoman Biggert in a similar fashion in the 112th Congress. I would like to note, however, a few concerns with Rep. Biggert's FHA discussion draft we are considering at this hearing today. This discussion draft would increase downpayments – a move that was overwhelmingly rejected in Committee mark-up last year on a bipartisan basis. The rationale for this rejection was because FHA data demonstrated that increasing downpayments across-the-board would do little to improve FHA's reserves, while also restricting credit to qualified borrowers. I think that allowing FHA to manage risk in a flexible manner is the best way to continue to protect their reserves. Additionally, I strongly oppose the rapid reduction in FHA loan limits proposed in this bill, as I believe that decrease would have an absolutely chilling impact on our economic recovery. And unfortunately, because of the elimination of the nationwide loan limit floor, this impact would likely be felt the hardest in places where home prices are already low. Finally, I think that there are major problems with moving rural housing programs to HUD, and I am very interested to hear the testimony from the rural advocates here today. So, Madam Chairwoman, I think that there are some areas for agreement where I hope we can work together in the coming months, but I remain very concerned about several of the provisions in this bill. Thank you, I yield back the balance of my time." ###
05.12.2011	The House of Representatives adopted an amendment offered by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) today to H.R. 754, Intelligence Authorization Act. The Congresswoman's amendment requires the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community to report to Congress on racial and ethnic diversity in the intelligence community. She offered the following statement from the House floor in support of her amendment: "A diverse workforce is essential to intelligence work. People from a variety of backgrounds bring a variety of perspectives to the table to understand the world in which we live. A diverse workforce provides intelligence agencies critical insights into different cultures around the world where information about potential threats to our national security is being collected and analyzed. "Many leading intelligence officials understand the importance of a diverse workforce. The website of the Central Intelligence Agency includes the following statement: "In order for the CIA to meet our mission of protecting our national security interests, we need to employ a workforce as diverse as America itself—the most diverse nation on earth. Diversity reflects the unique ways we vary as Intelligence Officers—our nationality, race, ethnicity, gender, age, language, culture, sexual orientation, education, values, beliefs, abilities, and disabilities. These assorted attributes create different demographic, functional, and intellectual views, which are so vital to our innovation, agility, collection, and analysis." "CIA Director Leon Panetta had this to say: "In virtually every aspect of our mission, CIA relies on diversity for success. We operate in a wide range of environments and tackle an even wider range of problems. If we all look the same, our mission suffers. If we all think the same, failure is certain. To reach our full potential as an intelligence service, we must draw from the same source of strength that makes America great: the limitless energy and creativity inherent in the diversity of its people." "Unfortunately, there is virtually no data available to Congress and the public regarding the degree of racial and ethnic diversity in the intelligence community. The most recent publicly available report that discusses this subject is a 1996 report by the Government Accounting Office (GAO) on personnel practices at intelligence agencies, which focused on equal employment opportunity practices. The report concluded that intelligence agencies have workforce diversity programs but results lag behind other federal agencies. "This report was written more than five years before the terrorist attacks of 9/11 and fifteen years before the death of Osama Bin Laden. Needless to say, both the intelligence community and the world in which it operates have changed tremendously since then. "My amendment states that within 180 days after the enactment of this bill, the Inspector General shall submit to Congress a report on the degree to which racial and ethnic minorities in the United States are employed in professional positions in the intelligence community and barriers to the recruitment and retention of additional racial and ethnic minorities in these positions. The amendment requires that the report be submitted in unclassified form but allows the Inspector General to include a classified annex. "It is long past time for Congress to reevaluate the diversity of the intelligence community's workforce. "I urge my colleagues to support my amendment." ###
05.12.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a member of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet, issued the following statement today after it was announced that FCC Commissioner Meredith Baker will resign her post to join Comcast NBC: "FCC Commissioner Meredith Baker's announcement today that she will resign from the Commission to lobby for Comcast NBC Universal, mere months after casting her yes vote to approve the merger, further confirms my suspicion that the Commission's merger review – in cooperation with the Department of Justice (DOJ) – was overly politicized and rammed through in blatant disregard for the agencies' responsibility to the American people. In addition to the Obama Administration's appointment of NBC Universal's former parent company, General Electric ‘s CEO Jeff Immelt to his new economic panel the same week the Comcast-NBC merger was approved, Commissioner Baker's resignation and frequent criticisms against the FCC's review process underscores the pressure and influence the combining companies exerted over federal regulators. At every juncture, Comcast and NBC Universal set the terms of the merger's approval as they co-opted civil rights organizations with philanthropic donations and pressured the Administration to grant the approval in exchange for "innovation, investment, and job creation." The fact that the companies announced their new executives before the regulators released their orders approving the merger further illustrates how brazen and assured Comcast and NBCU were that the merger would be approved. "Contrary to what Commissioner Baker and some Republicans claim was an overreach of regulatory authority, there was nothing in the Commission's 279-page order approving the merger that Comcast-NBC did not agree to or previously offer as their "public interest commitments" early in the review proceedings. Moreover, the memoranda of understanding with civil rights groups were only slight variations of the same commitments Comcast-NBC submitted to Congress and the FCC in July 2010. Similarly, the network neutrality conditions were taken from the rule the Commission adopted last month – a narrowly tailored compromise with the telecommunications industry that excludes mobile wireless companies. "Despite the unprecedented public participation and substantive concerns expressed during the Commission's review of the Comcast-NBC merger, it is sufficiently clear that neither the Commission nor the DOJ had any intention of blocking the combination or reviewing it with careful scrutiny. In fact, many independent networks, writers, directors, actors, and programmers had cynically predicted to me, early in the review, that the government would succumb to pressure, and fail to truly serve the public interest. It was in this vein that I acted early in the Comcast-NBC merger review process – introducing legislation to encourage the FCC to extend the public comment period so they would have the appropriate amount of time to hear from the creative community, especially those who have felt excluded. I strongly believed that broad public engagement and participation would ensure accountability, even if the outcome was pre-determined. "It seems that with each passing month, we discover more troubling information about the Comcast-NBC merger's approval that continues to undermine the credibility of the entire regulatory review. I hope the American people are paying attention." ###
05.11.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, delivered the following remarks at a press conference on HR 1573 today outside the U.S. Capitol: "Thank you, Ranking Member Frank. I'm pleased to join you and my other Democratic colleagues here today to, once again, stand up and speak out about the increasingly brazen attempts by the GOP to slowly but surely dismantle the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Since Republicans know they cannot repeal Dodd-Frank, and despite its overwhelming popularity among the American people, they continue to seek every opportunity to defund, delay, and deemphasize the law. HR 1573 is part of that extreme agenda. As Ranking Member of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, I am very concerned that HR 1573 -- a bill by Chairmen Lucas and Bachus to delay the derivatives reforms laid out under the Dodd-Frank law -- is bad policy that will impede our financial and economic recovery. You've heard some of my colleagues describe what this legislation would do, but in a nutshell, HR 1573 would: • Delay the requirement for financial institutions to hold capital against trades they are making with other financial institutions; • Delay the requirement for financial institutions to post margin for trades with other financial institutions; • Delay the ability of regulators to establish position limits • Delay the adequate oversight of clearinghouses; • Delay the requirement that certain swaps be exchange-traded and cleared; and • Delay meaningful reporting of derivatives transactions. The bill also allows Wall Street firms to be exempt from certain regulatory requirements, allowing the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to utilize tricky language to exempt "any person" from any registration or related regulatory requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Some will ask, what is the practical impact on American consumers? Well, consumers are already feeling the pain of runaway speculation at the pump. In Los Angeles, the average cost of a gallon of gasoline is $4.27. By delaying implementation of the rules to regulate derivatives, Republicans are impeding the ability of the CFTC to set position limits on speculative trading, including speculation on gasoline. According to Goldman Sachs, speculation on gasoline alone is adding $27 to the price of a barrel of oil. The CFTC has a proposed rule that would rein this in. But the Republicans want to stop that rule, an action that will ensure that our constituents continue to feel pain at the pump. So HR 1573 is basically another gift from the GOP to Wall Street. Remember, it was Chairman Bachus himself who said, "we are here to serve the banks." This gift to Wall Street will come at the expense of consumers, who will see higher oil prices as a direct result of the GOP's actions tomorrow. So I stand with my colleagues today ready to fight this legislation and the GOP's other attempts to weaken Dodd-Frank, including hampering the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau – the first meaningful reform to separate bank regulation from consumer protection in history – with a bureaucratic leadership structure and other dilatory tactics that will hurt consumers and empower those organizations that caused the economic crisis we've worked so hard to come back from. Thank you." ###
05.10.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a strong advocate for the Haitian people in the U.S. Congress, spoke today from the House floor in support of H.R. 1016 - Assessing Progress in Haiti Act. The bill later passed the House without opposition. Below are the Congresswoman's remarks as prepared for delivery: "I rise to support this bill to measure the progress of recovery efforts in Haiti following last year's devastating earthquake, and I thank my friend and colleague, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, for introducing this bill. "Immediately following the earthquake, there was an outpouring of sympathy from people in the United States and around the world. I introduced H.R. 4573, the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act, which was signed into law in April of last year. This law led to the cancellation of approximately $828 million of Haiti's debts, freeing up resources for the Government of Haiti to use for earthquake recovery efforts. "The United Nations held a donors' conference, which I attended, and the international community pledged a total of $9.9 billion in reconstruction funds – including $5.3 billion for the first two years. "Yet more than one year later, little if any of the money has reached the people of Haiti. According to the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), 680,000 displaced people are still living in tent camps. I visited some of these camps, and the conditions were appalling. There is a critical need for food, clean water and sanitation facilities. A deadly outbreak of cholera has already killed more than 4,800 people and infected more than 280,000 people. The effects of the epidemic were exacerbated by the lack of clean water and sanitation infrastructure. "Foreign aid without transparency will accomplish nothing. "We owe it to the Haitian people – and the American people – to find out how much of this money was actually delivered to Haiti and where the money went. That is why I strongly support this bill, which requires the President to report on the status of post-earthquake relief, recovery, reconstruction, and development efforts in Haiti. The report must evaluate coordination among various international agencies and donors; the extent to which U.S. and international efforts are in line with the priorities of the Government of Haiti; and mechanisms for Haitian civil society to participate in recovery efforts. "I am in awe of the strength and resiliency of the Haitian people. We owe it to them to assist them in their time of need. We also owe it to them to make certain our assistance reaches the people who need it most. "I urge my colleagues to support this bill, and I yield back the balance of my time. ### To watch video of the Congresswoman's remarks, click here. To read more about Congresswoman Waters' longtime work on Haiti, click here.
05.04.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters was invited to speak before the 38th Annual Washington Caucus of the Computer & Communications Industry Association (CCIA) today. Unfortunately, House voting prevented the Congresswoman from being able to deliver the remarks herself. Twaun Samuel, her legislative counsel and staffer who handles issues under the jursidiction of the Judiciary Committee where she serves, including on the Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet, delivered the following remarks in her place: INTRODUCTION Good Afternoon! I am very pleased to join all of you for the Computer & Communications Industry Association's (CCIA) 38th Annual Washington Caucus. I want to thank CCIA's President & CEO Mr. Ed Black for the invitation. Although this is my first visit with CCIA, I look forward to engaging the tech industry and CCIA's members more in my work on the House Judiciary Subcommittee on IP, Competition, and the Internet. Since the start of the 112th Congress, we have covered a wide range of topics including Patent Reform, Online Internet Piracy, and Net Neutrality. However, the underlying discussion at all of these hearings has always focused on JOBS, and the types of policies and reforms that can be made to advance American competitiveness, innovation, and investment. Indeed, many of us in Congress and the Obama Administration recognize that the tech industry will fuel the nation's economic recovery. We are already seeing a lot of market activity and investment in mobile applications, software, cloud computing, social networking, and the online video market. CCIA's members have led the world in innovation and completely changed the way Americans communicate and consume media. Of course, an open Internet has made all of this possible. While there is still much contention around a legal and policy framework for net neutrality, I know that everyone in this room has in some way benefited from an open Internet. The Internet has facilitated the deployment of new technologies and provided an alternative platform from which a diverse group of entrepreneurs has been able to compete and deliver innovative services, news, entertainment, and information to the American public. This is why I have become a vocal supporter of net neutrality. As a statement of public policy, net neutrality promotes diversity and expresses our federal interests in maintaining a level playing field on which innovators from different backgrounds and communities can enter the market and compete. Diversity is good for innovation, competition, and the economy, and serves an important social utility. Corporate policies and investment strategies that place an emphasis on diversity bring different ideas, perspectives, and worldviews to the table that can lead to incredible, innovative breakthroughs that help to move the nation forward. In this view, when you cultivate a diverse and inclusive workforce, you open up your firm to a new world of possibilities. Today, I would like to focus my remarks on how we can promote greater diversity in the future of American innovation and competitiveness. I will begin with a discussion on how I became involved in net neutrality, and the massive Comcast-NBC merger that prompted my interest in our nation's media and telecommunications landscape. I will then conclude with comments on ways I believe the tech industry can forge effective public, private, academic, and community partnerships to meaningfully invest in the promotion of Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) education and IT/engineering careers in underserved communities. I understand that the tech industry has come under some scrutiny in recent years about outsourcing and the perception that the firms are not hiring internal U.S. talent. While it is true we need to do our part to create an effective STEM pipeline so that we can cultivate the best and brightest talent to assume positions within your firms, we do hope that wherever and whenever possible, our tech companies are actively seeking ways to invest in America and all of its potential. NET NEUTRALITY AND OPEN INTERNET As a vocal advocate for media diversity, I initially supported net neutrality and open Internet policies because of the potential they have to further federal interests in promoting the open exchange of diverse news and information from independent and competing media sources. Through the course of my advocacy and participation in the Federal Communications Commission's Comcast-NBC merger review and NPRM (notice of proposed rulemaking) on net neutrality, I have grown increasingly concerned with the level of consolidation in the media and telecommunications industries. All throughout last year, I urged both the FCC and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to carefully review the merger, ensuring that if the merger was approved, it contained substantive conditions and concessions that promote media diversity, competition, and localism. I raised many of these public interest concerns in written letters and on public filings with the FCC. I also met with DOJ's Antitrust Division and wrote the agency letters detailing concerns I had for the merger's potential impact on competition in the online video market. Although the agencies struggled to adopt significant diversity conditions – particularly the FCC – both agencies recognized the need to protect online competition, and included enforceable net neutrality conditions in their respective orders approving the Comcast-NBCU merger. During the FCC's rulemaking proceeding, I wrote the agency commending its efforts to establish sensible guidelines to ensure that the Internet remains an open and vibrant platform for creativity and innovation. Unfortunately, in the year since the FCC set an agenda to adopt net neutrality rules, confusion and misinformation overshadowed the agency's original intent. As a result of the immense pressure exerted on the FCC from industry stakeholders and some Members of Congress, I believe the rules the agency adopted in December are insufficient, and may actually harm many American consumers. Since the Commission's net neutrality rules exempt mobile wireless companies, we now have a dual-track regulatory framework where consumers who access the Internet on mobile wireless devices receive less protection than those who utilize wire-line service providers. I suspect that the lack of rules for wireless networks also creates uncertainty for many of you who have relied on an open Internet in developing applications and other technology for mobile devices. While the FCC's order deals with wire-line Internet service providers' potential blocking, the order does little to prevent blocking that could happen over wireless networks. What if one of your corporations developed a new mobile application that may compete with an application the wireless company wants to deploy? How would the Feds distinguish reasonable network management from anticompetitive conduct? In my initial response to the FCC's net neutrality order, I also expressed concerns with the disproportionate impact the dual-track regulatory framework would have on minorities. According to the Pew Internet and American Life Project's Mobile Access 2010 report, "minority Americans lead the way when it comes to mobile access--especially mobile access using handheld devices", and currently "two-thirds of African-Americans and [English-speaking] Latinos are wireless internet users." Under the FCC's current rules, these groups would have no protection. However, in considering the general American public's growing use and reliance on mobile handheld devices for accessing the Internet via mobile wireless networks, I am now very concerned about the shrinking number of nationwide mobile wireless companies. While consumers have a variety of choices for portable devices – I-Phones, I-Pads, Blackberries, and Androids – consumers have limited options in nationwide mobile wireless providers. For its part, the FCC has refrained from declaring that the mobile wireless industry is "competitive." Despite all of the debate that has commenced in Congress and among the public, there is still a lot of confusion about what the appropriate regulatory framework is for net neutrality. Most recently, some have even suggested that the FCC should not have the authority to set reasonable Internet rules, and that the issues concerning online competition and antitrust enforcement should be left to the DOJ. However, in the same manner that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) works in cooperation with DOJ to oversee financial regulations, I believe the FCC – the agency with the knowledge and subject-matter expertise in telecommunications – must be involved in ensuring that the Internet remains an open and vibrant platform for artistic expression, creativity, and innovation. I am certain that the House Judiciary's IP Subcommittee will be hearing more from many of you on the types of considerations that must go into open Internet public policy. I look forward to those discussions. CONSOLIDATION AND DIVERSITY Yesterday, the Attorney General Eric Holder testified before the Judiciary Committee and I had the opportunity to raise with him concerns I have had with the level of consolidation that appears to be continuing under the current Administration. Quite frankly, I do not believe excessive consolidation serves our federal interests and long-term economic stability. Consolidation is not only bad for diversity and the ability for minority and women-owned entrepreneurs and enterprises to enter the market and compete. In general, whether we are discussing the tech industry, media companies, or wireless companies, consolidation can also restrict competition, stifle innovation, and impede small businesses and startups' access to capital for investment. I think there is a case to be made that the rubber-stamped merger approvals and lax enforcement that has defined antitrust law in this country is counterproductive to forward-thinking innovation policy that could really stimulate the economy and create jobs for diverse communities. Many of the new tech giants today began as smaller start-ups. What if these companies would have been acquired before they were able to reach their potential? A diversity of industry players promotes competition, spurs investment, and creates jobs. Congress and the Obama Administration have indicated that they are willing to work with the tech community in efforts to spur job creation. In general, I believe that Congress rewards and celebrates your success and global standing in a variety of ways. Therefore, I think it is reasonable for us to ask that you reexamine and reinvigorate how you view philanthropy, community investment, and corporate citizenship. According to a study conducted by the San Jose Mercury News last year, the unique diversity of Silicon Valley is not reflected in the region's tech workplaces — and the disparity is growing worse. In using data collected by the Department of Labor, the San Jose Mercury News concluded that Hispanics and African Americans represented a smaller share of Silicon Valley's employees in 2008 than they did in 2000 – even as their share grew across the nation. Similarly, women in computer-related occupations saw declines around the country, but they are an even smaller proportion of the work force in Silicon Valley. This trend was also reflected in the less tech-centric roles of upper management. The study further reports that from 2000 to 2005, the number of African Americans and Hispanics in top management declined 20 percent, while the number of women in these positions declined 2 percent. An analysis by the Mercury News of the combined workforce of 10 of Silicon Valley's largest companies shows that while the collective workforce of those 10 companies grew by 16 percent between 1999 and 2005, the already small population of black workers dropped by 16 percent, while the number of Hispanic workers declined by 11 percent. By 2005, only about 2,200 of the 30,000 Silicon Valley-based workers at those 10 companies were black or Hispanic. Clearly, we have to do a better a job, and I hope we can work together in cultivating the next generation of tech talent that more accurately reflects the country's diversity. In the wake of the economic collapse and the devastatingly-high unemployment rate, community stakeholders have expressed concerns with what they believe to be the tech industry's collective abuse of H-1B and L-1 visa programs. In addition to public discontent, the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration Policy and Enforcement has held many hearings where some witnesses have further asserted that visa programs and foreign workers have empirically displaced American jobs. In contrast with these hearings, however, the Judiciary Subcommittee on IP, Competition, and the Internet has held numerous hearings and we have heard many counterarguments to that assertion. In this subcommittee, the corporate witnesses have testified that the visa programs for highly skilled foreign workers are essential, and their continued use benefits the U.S. economy. In follow-up meetings with the firms who have testified before both subcommittees, we have been told that the United States lacks the adequate intellectual capital (computer science, engineering, and IT professionals) to keep up with demand. They further explained that while certain companies have abused visa programs, the U.S. tech industry relies on highly skilled foreign workers to remain innovative and globally competitive. Admittedly, if the United States is to increase its domestic supply of diverse IT talent, a greater number of women and minorities must be encouraged to study STEM disciplines. While utilizing H-1B visa workers may provide some short-term relief, a cooperative effort between the federal government, academia, and the tech industry must be realized in order to increase the mid-term and long-term supply of qualified and diverse computer science, engineering, and IT professionals in the U.S. While improvements in STEM education will take time to yield results, in the mid-term, efforts to increase domestic supply of qualified and diverse tech professionals can be enhanced by training those individuals who are already skilled in computer science and engineering proficiencies. Applied training provided by corporate and academic sponsors, complemented by a community of mentors, could transition already talented workers into IT professionals. The bulk of the United States' domestic supply of highly skilled workers must come from education programs, which will require the early promotion of STEM disciplines to encourage study in these fields. As noted before, human capital is the most valuable asset for technology companies; they, along with the government and academia, need to make strategic investments in these assets proportionate to their value. To that end, I will be hosting a roundtable discussion later this month with our nation's leading tech companies and representatives from minority business advocacy associations and the academic community. This roundtable will serve as the first phase in my ongoing efforts to seek out ways to build wealth and opportunities for women and minorities in the private sector. I do hope that you will join me in this endeavor. We all have a stake in rebuilding America's economy, and I want to ensure that our nation's future economic engine is fueled by the intellect and creativity of a diverse group of engineers and tech professionals. Thank you.
05.03.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) offered an amendment today to H.R. 1213, a bill to repeal mandatory funding provided to the states to set up Health Benefit Exchanges as part of the historic health care reform law passed last year. Health Benefit Exchanges are marketplace-like entities required by the health care reform law where people can shop around for different health care options. Though opposed to the bill to repeal funding for the exchanges, Congresswoman Waters wanted to ensure that Congress would be aware of the difficulties that the states would have in setting up these exchanges. Therefore, her amendment required the Department of Health and Human Services to complete a report on the impact of the federal government's withholding of funds. The Rules Committee allowed the Congresswoman's amendment to go forward, but it was ultimately defeated by the full House. Congresswoman Waters attempted to offer several other amendments to H.R. 1213, including one to require the Department of Health and Human Services to complete a report on the extent to which uninsured Americans will have difficulty obtaining affordable health insurance coverage without being able to purchase insurance on the exchanges. However, none of her other amendments were allowed by the Republican-dominated Rules Committee. Below is a statement Congresswoman Waters delivered on the House floor in support of her amendment: "My amendment requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to submit to Congress a report on the extent to which states are expected to have difficulties establishing Health Benefit Exchanges without the federal assistance repealed by this bill. "The Affordable Care Act requires the establishment of Health Benefit Exchanges in every state. These exchanges will be a marketplace where individuals, families, and small businesses can purchase health insurance. The exchanges will feature a variety of health plans offered by different insurance companies, all of which must offer a comprehensive set of essential health benefits at affordable prices. The purpose of these exchanges is to enable American consumers to compare premiums, out-of-pocket expenses, and benefits and make informed choices among competing health plans. "The Affordable Care Act places an emphasis on state-based health reform. The Affordable Care Act allows states to set up their own Health Benefit Exchanges and offers grants to states to assist them in doing so. A total of 49 states, the District of Columbia, and 4 territories have already applied for these exchange grants. These states and territories are working hard to determine what type of health insurance marketplace will be best for their families and businesses. "Without federal funding, some states could have difficulty establishing exchanges in a timely manner. This could lead to poor management of the exchanges, fewer health plans included on the exchanges, and years of delay in getting the exchanges up and running. "Some states might simply refuse to establish exchanges at all in the absence of federal assistance. This would result in greater costs for the federal government, because the Affordable Care Act requires the federal government to set up health exchanges in those states that do not set up their own exchanges. "According to the Congressional Budget Office (CBO), states that attempt to set up health exchanges without federal funding may face challenges in making their exchanges fully operational by 2014, as the law requires. These challenges could limit the desirability of the exchanges for consumers and reduce the capacity of some exchanges to process enrollment. As a result, CBO estimates that by 2015, there will be almost two million fewer people enrolled in state exchanges. "Many states are already facing declining revenues and budget pressures as a result of the Great Recession. Some states have been forced to make painful choices, increasing taxes or cutting spending, in order to make ends meet. Budget pressures have forced states to consider closing public health facilities, postponing transportation and infrastructure projects, and laying off teachers, law enforcement officers, and other public employees. If the federal government expects states to set up health exchanges without any assistance, it will only compound their budgetary problems. "My amendment requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to report to Congress within 6 months of enactment on the difficulties states will encounter while trying to set up these exchanges without federal help. If Congress is going to deny states the funding that was mandated for them to set up their health exchanges, Congress needs to know the extent of the difficulties states will face without these funds. "I urge my colleagues to support this amendment." ###
05.02.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement after President Obama announced late last night that Osama bin Laden was killed in a raid by U.S. military and intelligence personnel: "The death of Osama bin Laden, almost a decade after he orchestrated the murder of 3,000 innocent American citizens and foreign nationals, is a significant milestone and a welcome development in our fight against al Qaeda. "President Obama, members of the Administration, and the men and women of our intelligence community and our armed forces are all to be commended for their leadership in bringing the mastermind of the devastating September 11th attacks – as well as the U.S. African embassy bombings, the attack on the U.S.S. Cole, and other deadly acts of terrorism against innocent people around the world – to justice. "This is a significant day for people who believe in freedom, justice and peace around the world, but it should not diminish our efforts to focus on real security threats to our nation and our interests, or from bringing our men and women home from war in a timely manner." ###Congresswoman Waters and some of her colleagues in the Congressional Progressive Caucus wrote a letter to President Obama on May 4, renewing their call for a significant and sizeable reduction in U.S. troops in Afghanistan following the death of Osama bin Laden. Click on the link in the box above to view the letter.
04.15.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) yesterday reintroduced H.R. 1567, the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act of 2011. Congresswoman Waters has introduced similar legislation since the 110th Congress, and has long maintained that the servicing industry is broken. By reintroducing and updating the bill, Congresswoman Waters continues to demonstrate her commitment to ending the foreclosure crisis and holding servicers accountable. "In light of the slap of the wrist our regulators are preparing to give 14 servicers who admitted to breaking the law, legislation to require loss mitigation prior to foreclosure is needed now more than ever before. It's the only way to protect homeowners and to prevent foreclosures." Congresswoman Waters' bill would require servicers to provide loss mitigation, including loan modifications, prior to foreclosure. Notably, the bill places one entity in charge of modifying primary and secondary liens and requires principal reduction for underwater mortgages. It would also address problems in the mortgage servicing industry by prohibiting dual track, requiring a single point of contact; requiring referrals to housing counseling agencies; regulating fees; and implementing other reforms to an industry in need of structural changes. The bill also reforms short sales, prohibiting on demand payments and providing greater protections for homeowners. In introducing the bill, Congresswoman Waters acknowledged that the bill will be one of several that she introduces to tackle problems in the servicing industry. "This bill is the first in a series of legislative proposals that I plan to introduce to further regulate the servicing industry and to protect homeowners." ###
04.15.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a leading progressive voice in Congress, today strongly criticized the Republicans' destructive budget proposals, including both the deal cut for the remainder of Fiscal Year 2011 funding, and the Republican budget for Fiscal Year 2012. As Congress voted on multiple budgets over the last two days, the Congresswoman made it clear she does not support any plan that takes money away from programs and services to help the least fortunate Americans, while giving away money to ultra-rich individuals and corporations. Yesterday, Congress voted on a deal to keep the government operating through September 30th. "Though no one, including myself, wanted the government to shutdown, I could not in good conscience vote for a deal that took money away from community health clinics, which help low-income people in both urban and rural areas; Community Development Block Grants, which fund infrastructure development in underserved areas; and public housing funds that provide safe, decent and affordable housing to low-income families, seniors and the disabled. The House then voted today on five different budget alternatives, two of which the Congresswoman strongly supported. On the House floor speaking out in support of the Congressional Progressive Caucus budget alternative, known as the "People's Budget," Congresswoman Waters said, "During the last Administration, my colleagues on the other side of the aisle maxed out the nation's credit card for wars and [tax cuts for] the rich, all the while saying ‘deficits don't matter'. Now they're using our deficit crisis as the rationale to undermine programs that they never supported, and push a divisive, social agenda that is a side-show to our budget debate." "The People's Budget would put us on the path to a budget surplus by bringing our brave men and women home from war; ending tax breaks for people and companies that don't need them; making key investments in jobs and education; and strengthening the social safety net for our nation's most vulnerable."WATCH REP. WATERS' PEOPLE'S BUDGET SPEECH HERE Congresswoman Waters also strongly supports the Congressional Black Caucus budget alternative, which lays out a plan to achieve fiscal responsibility by setting aside over $1 trillion in deficit reduction over the next decade while at the same time preserving support for programs that assist women, children, low-income people, seniors, and the disabled, and making critical investments in job training, expanded educational opportunities, and transportation infrastructure. "Time and again, you hear people say that a budget should be a reflection of our priorities as a people and as a nation. The People's Budget and the CBC Budget alternatives are strong reflections of the priorities I believe in. That's why I'm extremely disappointed by the Republican FY 2012 budget plan that guts Medicaid by giving the states block grants; ends Medicare as we know it and replaces it with a healthcare coupon for seniors; does nothing to reign in growing and unsustainable military spending; and actually lowers tax rates for top-earning individuals and corporations that move money and jobs overseas. "No one disagrees about the need to reduce the deficit. However, Democrats must continue to draw sharp distinctions for their constituents about how each party would go about it: end war, make the wealthy pay their fair share, and uphold the nation's safety net? Or end Medicare and Medicaid, allow defense spending to balloon, and repeal health care reform for millions of Americans? "These are the choices being presented to the American people, and I believe that the majority of Americans, while serious about spending restraints, do not want to balance budgets on the backs of children, the poor, the disabled, and the elderly. So I encourage my colleagues to convene their constituents in meetings and town halls, to inform them of the impact of budget cuts on their communities, and implore them to make their voices heard." ###
04.13.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today: "Today's announcement on enforcement actions against 10 of our nation's mortgage servicers by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and the Office of Thrift Supervision is disappointing -- but not surprising -- given the history of our nation's banking regulators. The consent orders released today, which are substantially similar to those leaked in the press earlier this week, fail to hold servicers accountable for the egregious, and often illegal, actions taken against American homeowners during the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. They are lacking in direction and standards, and all existing evidence points to the fact that our regulators' enforcement will be weak. I fear that these consent orders are merely an attempt to do an end-run around our state attorneys general, and replicate the failed policy of preemption that exacerbated our subprime crisis and brought us to this point. Though consumer groups, and 22 current and former members of the Federal Reserve's Consumer Advisory Council, pleaded with regulators to withdraw these consent decrees, they have nonetheless been issued. Given that reality, I will continue to press regulators to strongly police servicer behavior and protect Americans threatened by foreclosure." ###
04.13.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today, congratulating the California Science Center in Los Angeles on its selection as one of four institutions nationwide to receive a NASA spacecraft. Space Shuttle Orbiter Endeavour – which was built in Southern California – will call the Science Center its home after completing its final mission into space, which is slated for the end of this month. The Congresswoman was among key Federal, state, and local leaders who advocated for the Science Center's ability to house, care for, and showcase a NASA spacecraft: "I was elated to learn that the Endeavour will be housed at the California Science Center in the heart of Los Angeles after its final mission this year. This selection by NASA is a testament to the Science Center's state-of-the-art facilities and its mandate to help educate young people about the final frontier and help them become more interested in math, science, engineering, and technology. "The Science Center is a world-class institution that entertains and educates Los Angelinos and visitors from throughout the country and around the world. Though located in my colleague Congresswoman Karen Bass' district right next door, I have long advocated for the museum since my days in the California Assembly. Throughout the years I have held many community meetings and forums at the Science Center, and I have always been impressed with and appreciative of their services and their level of accommodation. "The Endeavour will be the crown jewel in the Science Center's master plan of building an entire wing dedicated to aeronautics and space. I congratulate President Jeffrey Rudolph and all the members of his team who helped make this incredible achievement possible." ###
04.12.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement today after convening a large community meeting with other elected officials, community leaders, members of the clergy, and organized labor, to bring Los Angelinos up to speed on budget cuts, negotiations, and the status of the government: "Today, I held a large community meeting to answer questions and deal with the concerns of my constituents in the 35th district of California and other Los Angelinos who came to understand the confusing situation in Washington. My constituents deserve information and facts about the ongoing negotiations between Democrats and Republicans on both the 2011 and 2012 budgets. H.R. 1, the Republican plan that passed the two months ago, included $61 billion in extreme cuts that have alarmed my community and millions of people around the country. These cuts include programs and services like Head Start, job training, after school programs, community health clinics, Community Development Block Grants, and housing for the elderly, the disabled, and low-income individuals, among others. Yesterday, negotiators reached another short-term agreement that will keep the government open through mid-week, making $2 billion in cuts to programs within the Department of Transportation. Supposedly, negotiations will restart next week and a long-term agreement will be reached to fund the rest of Fiscal Year 2011. The cuts that are being demanded by the Republicans are huge, and the budget cuts that are being offered in compromise by Democrats, I fear, will also be damaging and harmful to the many programs and services that people not only need but deserve to have from their government. The state of affairs of the negotiations of the 2011 budget have created uncertainty and suspicion about government's role and commitment to quality of life issues for most people in this country. And in a matter of days, the same negotiations will start on the 2012 budget. The cuts being discussed for 2012 are even larger, and potentially more harmful and damaging. If negotiations around the 2011 budget are any indication, I have little confidence in a sensible 2012 budget. Today, I shared up-to-date information with my constituents and alerted them to the ongoing budget deliberations. I was very pleased with the turnout, and with my constituents' desire to hear from their elected representatives. This information and event gave our constituents the opportunity to let their voices to be heard, to allow their concerns to be considered, and to open up dialogue with their federal and local legislators. I believe that this kind of event and information-sharing is the very least that can be done to ensure we continue to have a government of the people, by the people, and for the people. I remain committed to staying on top of these negotiations and reporting to my constituents in real time about the state of the budget and the operations of the government. Though the government remains open today, a further breakdown in negotiations, or the threat of a future shutdown, are not yet off the table." ###
04.05.2011	Today, during a Financial Services Committee Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee hearing, Ranking Member Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) led a moment of silence in honor of John Adler, a former Congressman from New Jersey who served on the full Committee and the Capital Markets Subcommittee. Mr. Adler passed away yesterday at age 51: "I was very saddened to learn about the passing of my colleague, former Congressman John Adler. "He came to Congress during the blue wave of 2008, and he served his constituents in New Jersey with distinction in the 111th Congress. As a member of the Financial Services Committee, where I serve, John gave an important voice to the work we did to protect consumers and support small businesses. "It is particularly disheartening that we have lost such a young and dedicated public servant like John, who served the people of New Jersey for almost twenty years. "My thoughts and prayers are with his wife, children, family and friends during this very difficult time." ###
04.04.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after Rev. Terry Jones' burning of the Quran sparked protests in Afghanistan over the weekend, killing civilians and United Nations personnel: "Last September I convened a diverse group of faith leaders in the Los Angeles area to disavow plans by Rev. Terry Jones and his congregation at the Dove World Outreach Center in Florida to burn copies of the Quran, the holy text of the Islamic religion. Many other elected, community, and religious leaders came together around the country and throughout the world to similarly state that this kind of action would be offensive, violent, and could bring harm to many people around the world – especially our brave men and women in uniform serving overseas. "I'm very saddened to see that Mr. Jones' plans to desecrate the text of a world religion with over one billion followers became a reality on Friday. His intolerant act has directly resulted in the deaths of at least 22 civilians and United Nations personnel in Afghanistan over the weekend. "Actions have consequences, and I am disgusted and saddened at the outcome of Mr. Jones' narrow vision of the world. While we respect freedom of speech, this is tantamount to crying fire in a crowded theater. In no uncertain terms, I join other leaders in absolutely denouncing Mr. Jones' actions, and I encourage others to come forward and speak out. "My condolences are with the loved ones of the victims of Mr. Jones' bigotry. From his extreme demonstration of hate, let us all come together as a global community steadfast in our opposition to hate in all its forms and resolute in our determination to make the world a better, more peaceful and tolerant place for future generations." ###
04.01.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) delivered the following remarks at a press conference at the Watts Health Center today, marking the one year anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into law. Community health leaders from South Central and the South Bay were on hand to talk about the importance of fully funding community health centers, which would be cut under the Republican budget plan: "It has been one year since the passage of the Affordable Care Act, and what a difference a year makes! 1. Because of the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies cannot drop you if you become sick. 2. Insurance companies can no longer place lifetime limits on your coverage. 3. Insurance companies must now spend at least 80 percent of your premiums on medical services – rather than administrative expenses, profits, and salaries for their CEOs. 4. Insurance companies can no longer deny coverage to children with pre-existing conditions – conditions like asthma, diabetes, cancer, and HIV/AIDS. This protection will be extended to everyone in 2014. 5. Young adults can remain on their parents' health plan until their 26th birthday. 6. Seniors can receive free preventive care under Medicare, and seniors who are in the "donut hole" now receive a 50 percent discount on brand-name prescription drugs. 7. Small businesses can qualify for tax credits that cover up to 35 percent of the cost of providing health insurance to their workers. 8. And community health centers, like those who are represented here today, have additional funds to serve millions of low-income and uninsured Americans. The Affordable Care Act at long last puts American families and small business owners — not the insurance companies — in control of their health care. I am sorry to say that my Republican colleagues in Congress are doing everything they can to undo the progress we have made with this historic legislation. The very first bill the Republican leadership brought before the House of Representatives was a bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act, and every single Republican in the House voted for it. Fortunately, this bill will never pass the Senate, and it will not be signed by the President. But that hasn't stopped the House Republicans. Their budget for the rest of this fiscal year prohibits the use of any funds to implement the Affordable Care Act, and some of their Members have threatened to shut down the government if this funding prohibition is not included in the 2011 budget. The House Republicans' budget also includes drastic cuts in many other critical health programs and services. • Their budget cuts funding for the National Institutes of Health by $1.6 billion below last year's level and $2.5 billion below the President's request. That's $2.5 billion less money for cutting-edge research by scientists seeking cures for diseases like cancer, HIV/AIDS, and Alzheimer's disease. • Their budget cuts funding for health professions by $386 million below the President's request. That's $386 million less money to train promising young people to become primary care doctors and nurses. These are good paying jobs for hard-working professionals who want to serve their communities. • Their budget cuts funding for community health centers by almost $1.3 billion. That's $1.3 billion less money for the people in this room and others like them to provide basic health services to millions of low-income and uninsured patients throughout the United States. Many Americans who lost their jobs and their health insurance since the Great Recession began under President George W. Bush depend upon community health centers for their health care. • Their budget entirely eliminates funding for the Title X Family Planning program, which provides family planning and reproductive health services to more than five million people every year at 4,500 community-based clinics including Planned Parenthood of Los Angeles County, which is also here today. We cannot allow these drastic budget cuts to become law. And we cannot allow the Affordable Care Act to be repealed, de-funded, or undermined. We have come too far and accomplished too much to go backwards. We must continue to protect patients' rights and guarantee access to affordable, quality health care for all Americans." ###
04.01.2011	The House of Representatives passed H.R. 658, the FAA Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2011, today. Though opposed to the bill because $9.8 million in cuts to Airport Improvement Program funding in California would cost jobs and decrease safety, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) authored an amendment to ensure that Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) improves its communication with the surrounding communities. The Waters amendment, included in the final bill, urges Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), the operator of LAX, to consult with representatives of the surrounding communities regarding airport operations and plans to expand, modify or realign airport facilities. LAX, located in the Congresswoman's district, is the sixth busiest airport in the world for passengers and ranks 13th in air cargo tonnage handled worldwide. "Airports have a large impact on the residents and businesses that surround them: they get us where we need to go and they are economic hubs that employ many people, but they also create noise, cause pollution, and increase traffic congestion," said Congresswoman Waters. "This is acutely the situation at LAX, and the communities that I represent, including Inglewood, Westchester, Playa del Rey and South Los Angeles have been struggling for years as the airport continues to pursue expansion and construction projects that may be unnecessary. "My amendment would simply urge LAX to be a more responsive and responsible neighbor by meeting with community representatives of these cities and towns," Congresswoman Waters continued. "Everyone is helped when they are better informed about developments in their own backyard, especially when those developments have the potential to uproot families and small businesses. As the gateway to L.A. and an economic engine in a crowded metro area, I know LAX wants to be the best possible neighbor it can be. This amendment will help make that possible." ###
03.26.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and the African American Members of the House Financial Services Committee (known as the FS 10) were recently honored by the Black Press of America and the National Newspaper Publishers Association Foundation (NNPAF) with the 2011 Political Leadership Award for their work during negotiations for the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. The Congresswoman and Congressman William Lacy Clay, Jr. accepted the award on behalf of the FS 10 at an event last week at a Newsmaker Dinner and Gala at the Omni Shoreham Hotel. Afterward, she issued the following statement: "I know I speak for my FS 10 colleagues when I say that we are very humbled to have received this award from the Black Press of America and NNPAF. It was a particular honor to receive the 2011 Political Leadership Award from my friends Dorothy Leavell and Danny Bakewell. Congressman Clay and I graciously accept it on behalf of our colleagues, in the name of those we have all spent a lifetime – especially so over the last year – advocating and standing up for: minorities, women, the poor, those facing economic and social hardship, and anyone whose voice is naturally or willfully ignored in the halls of power. "Dodd-Frank is an extremely important and powerful law that increases consumer protections, enforces stricter rules and oversight for Wall Street, and helps people and communities who are struggling from the worst recession since the Great Depression. But it wasn't originally so strong. My FS 10 colleagues and I quickly realized that we could leverage our numbers and our power on the Committee to make the bill stronger. We knew we couldn't just go along to get along when we had a real opportunity to make a difference in the lives of millions of Americans who by and large just wanted to keep their jobs, their homes, and their savings. "So we got to work. And as a result of that work, we secured an additional $1 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, which I authored three years ago to help communities clean up abandoned and foreclosed properties that blight neighborhoods and drive down property values; $1 billion for a program to help unemployed homeowners access affordable loans so they can continue to make their mortgage payments; and the creation of the Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at the Federal government's financial institutions, to increase opportunities for minorities, women, and minority-owned and women-owned businesses in hiring and contracting opportunities. "We are very proud of our work and the overall Dodd-Frank law. But our friends in the Black Press know that we now find ourselves defending that work as Republicans seek to defund or repeal key components of the law. So the work goes on to help all Americans achieve economic security, and the FS 10 will continue to help lead the way." ###
03.26.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after Geraldine Ferraro, a former Congresswoman from New York and the first woman to ever serve as a vice presidential candidate on a major party's ticket, passed away. She was 75: "I am very saddened to learn that former Congresswoman Geraldine Ferraro is no longer with us, and I extend my deepest condolences to her husband, children, family and friends. "I have very fond memories of Geraldine. She ascended to political power and fame during the women's movement, where I worked alongside some of the greats like Gloria Steinem, Patsy Mink, Pat Schroeder, and Barbara Mikulski, helping open up opportunities for women. Of course Geraldine was there with us too, and had been doing that work for years. "In fact, she came in the mold of strong Congresswomen from New York like Shirley Chisholm and Bella Abzug – two of my personal heroes. Geraldine was a tireless advocate for the full rights of women, particularly in the home and in the workplace, first as a lawyer and later as a politician and humanitarian. "She so impressed members of the Democratic party that less than six years after arriving in Washington as a Member of Congress, she was chosen to serve as Walter Mondale's running mate in the 1984 presidential election. I will never forget her moving speech at the convention in San Francisco that year, where she reflected on her modest background and her strong advocacy for women's equality. Watching Geraldine there, the unprecedented image of a woman standing at that podium on that stage at that time, helped millions of women around the country understand what was possible. Hers was a true American story of struggle, success, and humility. "Geraldine was an inspiration, a trailblazer, and an uncompromising advocate for women here at home and around the world, encapsulated in her time as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. "Young girls will continue to learn about and be inspired by her ascendancy, her passion, and her mark on history as a strong woman, an important first, and a great American. Geraldine was one of a kind, and will truly be missed." ###
03.22.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee and a top congressional advocate for affordable housing, reintroduced H.R. 1209, The Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (SEVRA), late last week. The bill would reform the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program, which provides rental housing assistance to 2 million low-income American families. "More than three years after the housing bubble burst, the financial markets collapsed, and millions of people lost their jobs, foreclosures are continuing, the economy is still struggling, and too many Americans are underemployed or unemployed," said Congresswoman Waters. "Making rental housing more affordable and accessible to millions of low-income Americans by expanding and strengthening the Section 8 Voucher Program, as my legislation does, is the kind of public policy Congress should be pursuing – especially when Republicans just voted to end assistance to homeowners and communities dealing with foreclosure issues." H.R. 1209 would establish a stable, fair and cost-effective funding system for the Section 8 program. It would also restore previous assistance levels by authorizing 150,000 new vouchers. Under the bill, several critical provisions streamline the process of providing Section 8 housing assistance. The calculations governing tenant rent payments are simplified, reducing the burden on housing agencies, tenants and private owners of subsidized housing. The bill likewise streamlines the housing inspection process, by requiring HUD to address administrative burdens that make it difficult to transfer vouchers between jurisdictions. Additionally, the bill provides the flexibility needed for public housing authorities to preserve affordable housing by allowing agencies to make greater use of "project-based" vouchers. The bill also reforms Moving to Work, renaming it the Housing Innovation Program, which currently permits the Department of Housing and Urban Development to waive certain regulations for 30 public housing agencies, allowing them to experiment with different rent structures and programs. To ensure the efficacy of the program in addressing the needs of the most vulnerable households, the bill provides for rigorous evaluation requirements, stronger tenant protections, and clearer program goals to ensure effective use of federal funds. Original cosponsors of the Congresswoman's legislation are Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA), the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee; Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), the Ranking Member of the Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee; Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN); and Del. Pedro Pierluisi (D-P.R.). ###
03.16.2011	The House of Representatives voted today to end the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), which Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) created and which President George W. Bush signed into law three years ago under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act (HERA). Last week, House Republicans also voted to end the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Short Refinance Program and the Emergency Homeowners Relief Program (EHRP), the latter of which Congresswoman Waters worked to include in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. "I just have one question for my colleagues on the opposite side of the aisle," said Congresswoman Waters. "Whose side are you on? Are you on the side of homeowners facing foreclosure and dealing with unemployment, and communities devastated by boarded-up, rat-infested, abandoned homes that are driving down property values? I want to know, because their votes plainly demonstrate that they are not on the side of homeowners and communities. Republicans – just like Democrats – are hearing from constituents and communities that are really struggling, and yet they choose to kill these programs with no alternatives. It's upsetting and it's astonishing." NSP allows municipalities to access funds to clean up blighted homes and rundown communities devastated by the foreclosure crisis. Foreclosed properties drag down neighboring property values, and drive up costs for municipal governments. A small investment with NSP funds upfront can prevent exorbitant costs for local governments down the line. NSP, after receiving $4 billion in 2008 and an additional $2 billion under the 2009 Stimulus, received an additional $1 billion under Dodd-Frank. "NSP creates jobs by bringing together contractors, subcontractors, painters, landscapers, and real estate professionals. The Republican NSP Termination Act will kill 93,000 jobs," said Congresswoman Waters. "According to HUD, NSP has helped clean up 100,000 homes in the hardest-hit areas. Repealing it would make the funds inaccessible for the foreclosures that we know are coming. The Republicans aren't dealing in reality when it comes to this program because they are driven by their own ideology, not NSP's performance." WATCH CONGRESSWOMAN WATERS DEFEND NSP HERE Under the FHA Short Refinance Program, investors agree to write down at least 10 percent on the borrower's mortgage. In exchange, the borrower is refinanced into an FHA loan. Borrowers must be current on their mortgage, and federal funds are only spent in the event of a borrower default. The program is an important option to have available for borrowers and numerous institutions, including Wells Fargo and GMAC/Ally, have recently agreed to participate in the program. Last week, the House passed Congresswoman Waters' amendment to instruct the Department of Housing and Urban Development to place notices on its website, informing homeowners that the program has been cancelled, and that inquiring individuals should contact their Member of Congress for further information. Under the FHA Short Refinance Program, investors agree to write down at least 10 percent on the borrower's mortgage. In exchange, the borrower is refinanced into an FHA loan. Borrowers must be current on their mortgage, and federal funds are only spent in the event of a borrower default. The program is an important option to have available for borrowers and numerous institutions, including Wells Fargo and GMAC/Ally, have recently agreed to participate in the program. Last week, the House passed Congresswoman Waters' amendment to instruct the Department of Housing and Urban Development to place notices on its website, informing homeowners that the program has been cancelled, and that inquiring individuals should contact their Member of Congress for further information. EHRP would provide low-cost loans to unemployed homeowners to help them pay their mortgage. It is based on a highly successful program in Pennsylvania, which has helped 42,700 people since 1983. "Republicans pulled the rug out from under these programs before they could even get up and running," said the Congresswoman. "They don't care that lenders are willing to participate in FHA Short Refinance, or that the Pennsylvania loan program for unemployed homeowners has helped tens of thousands of people." On March 29th, the House is expected to take up the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) Termination Act. HAMP is the Obama Administration's program to help homeowners achieve loan modifications and stay in their homes. "Terminating HAMP without a credible and stronger alternative would be contrary to our goal of helping homeowners stay in their homes, despite some of the programs flaws. I will not vote to terminate HAMP because my Republican colleagues are not prepared to offer an alternative. Instead, I will vote to preserve HAMP, while continuing to fight for stronger rules and better enforcement," said Congresswoman Waters. "I have already begun communicating with key Senators, asking them to ensure that these bills are defeated or that they are not taken up all together." ###
03.15.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), who chaired the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) from 1997-1999, issued the following statement today on the occasion of the CBC's 40th anniversary: "Today we honor the 13 Members of Congress who came together 40 years ago and launched the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). Some, like Reps. Conyers and Rangel, are still admirably serving their constituents. Others, like Ron Dellums, Louis Stokes, Walter Fauntroy, and Bill Clay, Sr., continue their work and their advocacy in other fields. And some, like the legendary Shirley Chisholm and Augustus Hawkins, my predecessor, went home long ago. "The founders of the CBC had the knowledge and the fortitude to understand the problems facing our community, recognize their own strength, and come together to create an indomitable force for awareness, for betterment, and for change. "When I organized the Black Members of the Financial Services Committee in 2009 to stand in solidarity and ensure that the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act looked out for our community and other communities devastated by the financial crisis, I was inspired in part by the original 13. "True to its creed, the CBC has remained the ‘Conscience of the Congress' ever since. If there are unjust wars happening; if there are people wrongly losing their homes and their jobs; if there is crushing poverty keeping people from realizing their full potential; and if there is discrimination, injustice, or ignorance happening anywhere, the CBC is there to shine a light, identify the problem, hold people accountable, and offer solutions for a better day for our people and for all people who have found that the halls of power are often naturally, or willfully, deaf to their concerns. "Especially during these difficult times for our nation, as we public policymakers pursue remedies be believe to be in the best interests of all Americans, I am buoyed by the CBC's legacy of advocacy; its current leadership in the Congress, spearheaded by Chairman Cleaver; and its future that will undoubtedly bring more leaders of color to Washington to be agents of social change as the never-ending work of perfecting our union goes on." ###
03.11.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), who represents a district with a strong Japanese-American community, issued the following statement today after an 8.9 magnitude earthquake and subsequent tsunami devastated northern Japan, leaving hundreds dead, thousands missing, and infrastructure decimated: "My heart goes out to the Japanese people during this time of unspeakable tragedy. I am encouraged by our government's steadfast support for Japan in its hour of need, enumerated by President Obama, Secretary Clinton, Speaker Boehner, Congresswoman Pelosi, and others. I stand ready and willing to do all I can to assist our government's response to alleviate the Japanese people's suffering. "In my district, particularly in Gardena under the leadership of Mayor Paul Tanaka, there is a vibrant and active Japanese American community that greatly contributes to the multicultural fabric that makes Los Angeles a great place to live. I encourage them to reach out to my office and let me know how my staff and I can be of assistance to them as they seek information. Across the state, California is experiencing the impact of this disaster and the tsunami that raced across the Pacific Ocean. I am saddened to hear about significant damage in Northern California, injured persons, and at least one unconfirmed death. "In honor of the victims from this great tragedy, let us work with our international partners to get Japan the supplies and assistance it needs to save the suffering and rebuild its cities." ###
03.11.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) today reintroduced her legislation to improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Last year, the Congresswoman's NFIP legislation was passed by the House of Representatives with overwhelming bipartisan support, but was not taken up by the Senate. NFIP is the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for more than five million American homes and businesses. H.R. 1026 would restore stability to the flood insurance program by reauthorizing the program for 5 years. It would also address the impact of new flood maps by delaying the mandatory purchase requirement for 5 years, and then phasing in actuarial rates for another 5 years and makes other improvements to the program. "The ability for homeowners to access affordable and secure flood insurance is urgent, as many areas of the country brace for heavy flooding after a devastating winter of record snow and rain," said Congresswoman Waters. "As we saw in the last Congress, reforming and strengthening NFIP is a bipartisan issue. While I believe that Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Judy Biggert's bill is similar in essence to my legislation, I am particularly concerned about the shorter time period of the delay of the mandatory purchase requirement. Therefore, I look forward to working with Chairwoman Biggert to come up with a solution that will work for both sides of the aisle, but more importantly, American homeowners." H.R. 1026 is cosponsored by six of the Congresswoman's colleagues: Reps. Barney Frank (D-MA); Luis Gutierrez (D-IL); Al Green (D-TX); Jerry Costello (D-IL); Doris Matsui (D-CA); and Dennis Cardoza (D-CA). ###
03.09.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, spoke out today against Republican attempts to terminate the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) and the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP). This was the second markup in as many weeks where Committee Republicans ended programs to help people stay in their homes and help communities weather the foreclosure crisis. "I feel as if Republicans are operating in a parallel universe, completely removed from a housing crisis that brought the economy to its knees, left communities decimated, and eviscerated untold amounts of American wealth. A few Republicans even stated – repeatedly – that the housing crisis is over," said Congresswoman Waters. "Today's vote by Committee Republicans to gut HAMP and NSP is a slap in the face to struggling homeowners and recovering communities throughout this country." Republicans first moved to end NSP, which allows local governments and organizations to access funds to fix up homes and neighborhoods that have been devastated by foreclosure. Congresswoman Waters led efforts to create NSP three years ago, securing $4 billion for the program in 2008, $2 billion in 2009, and an additional $1 billion under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. "I'm really shocked that Republicans moved one step closer to ending NSP today, because this program uses federal funds to leverage private resources and rehabilitate abandoned and foreclosed homes that drive down property values and drive up local government costs," said Congresswoman Waters. "I've seen firsthand the benefits of NSP in my district and in both Democratic and Republican districts all over the country: houses once blighted by disrepair, graffiti, boarded-up windows, rats, and weeds have been rehabilitated and are no longer a drag on area property values. The Republicans' misguided facts and opinions about NSP are only going to worsen the nation's economic recovery." Congresswoman Waters offered two amendments to the NSP termination legislation. The first amendment would require the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to conduct a study on the impact of jobs lost under the termination of NSP, and to then inform communities that: the program has been cancelled, a certain number of jobs will be lost, and that organizations requesting information about how to improve their communities should contact their Member of Congress. Though the Republicans claim that their focus is on jobs, this common-sense amendment failed when Republicans refused to take accountability for the job losses associated with their draconian cuts. The Congresswoman's second amendment directed HUD to post a notice on its website saying that NSP had been terminated, and again direct inquiries to individual Members of Congress, or state, county and local officials. This amendment passed the Committee on voice vote. Republicans then voted to end HAMP, the government program to help struggling homeowners achieve loan modifications and avoid foreclosure. "For some reason, the Republicans believe that HAMP's failures mean we need less regulation of servicers, not more. That makes no sense. I believe that we need more regulation of mortgage servicers, including ending the foreclosure "dual track," mandating that servicers establish single-points-of-contact for loan modifications, and establishing a third-party appeal process for homeowners denied loss mitigation opportunities. The Treasury should also start issuing monetary penalties for servicer misbehavior," said the Congresswoman. Similar to her NSP amendment, Congresswoman Waters offered an amendment to require the Treasury Department to post to its website a message that HAMP has been cancelled and that directs homeowners to the office of their Member of Congress. This amendment also passed the Committee on voice vote. "Today, the Republicans continued their agenda to eliminate jobs at any cost and leave homeowners to fend for themselves against powerful banks. It's clear that they want to repeal these programs and not replace them with anything meaningful. I hope they are prepared for the barrage of phone calls from their constituents, their cities and their towns, who desperately need their help." ###
03.08.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading Congressional advocate for women, minorities and low-income people, released the following statement today in recognition of the 100th anniversary of International Women's Day: "Today is the 100th anniversary of International Women's Day. It is a day to remember the progress that women have made in the United States and around the world over the past century. One hundred years ago today, most American women were not allowed to vote, and their lives were governed by federal, state and local laws that were passed by men. Women in other parts of the world were no better off. "Today is a day to honor the many women who have led the struggle for women's rights. We honor women like Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Sojourner Truth who fought for women's suffrage despite public ridicule and rejection. We honor women like Gloria Steinem, who campaigned tirelessly to guarantee women equality before the law; Dr. Dorothy Height, the great educator, champion of civil rights, and leader of the National Council of Negro Women; Congresswoman Bella Abzug, a trailblazer and progressive who famously declared that women did belong in the house – the House of Representatives; and Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm, the first Black women in Congress and the first women to run for President in the Democratic primaries, whose strength and poise helped show us how to hone our political voice and power. "Today is also a day that we rededicate ourselves to defending the rights and improving the lives of women here in the United States and around the world. In many parts of the world, women must raise their children in abject poverty, and girls lack access to basic education. Every year, half a million women die as a result of pregnancy or childbirth. "Here in the United States, working women still earn only 77 cents for every dollar that men earn, and this wage gap is even larger for women of color. The effects of the gender wage gap are exacerbated by the fact that millions of American children depend on their mother's wages for their livelihoods. According to an analysis by the Center for American Progress, two-thirds of American families with children now rely on a woman's earnings for a significant portion of their family's income. "It light of these inequities, it's ironic that the Republicans in the House of Representatives are making drastic cuts in funding for programs that help women and their families. The Republicans' proposed budget for the rest of this year would result in the elimination of 700,000 jobs and make drastic cuts in health and educational programs throughout the United States. The bill cuts funding for Head Start by $1.1 billion. This could cause nearly 218,000 children to be kicked out of Head Start classrooms and over 55,000 Head Start teachers to lose their jobs. Aid to local schools serving disadvantaged students was cut by almost $700 million, which could lead to job losses for an additional 10,000 teachers whose students depend on them. Job training programs were cut by more than $4 billion, and education and training for nurses was cut by more than one third. The bill entirely eliminates funding for the Teen Pregnancy Prevention program and also eliminates family planning services for women and girls at thousands of hospitals and health clinics nationwide. "The Republicans' proposed cuts in international programs for women and their families are no less drastic. Development assistance was cut by 30 percent, and food assistance was cut by an astonishing 42 percent, denying assistance to approximately 18 million poor and hungry people. According to an analysis by the ONE Campaign, Republican cuts to international affairs programs will mean that 226,000 fewer children in the developing world will attend school. This will have a devastating impact on efforts to promote education for girls, who are often the first to suffer when poor families cannot afford to send all of their children to school. Drastic cuts in international health programs will result in 6 million fewer treatments for malaria and 5,000 fewer lives saved through immunizations from preventable diseases. Meanwhile, almost 10 million people will not benefit from HIV/AIDS testing and prevention services, and more than 58,000 HIV-positive, pregnant women will not receive treatment to protect their babies from the virus that causes AIDS. "We cannot allow the Republican budget cuts to become law. On this International Women's Day, we must commit ourselves to continue the struggle to ensure equal rights for women and quality health and education for their families. Millions of women in the United States and around the world are depending upon us." ###
03.08.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today after details of the proposed settlement between state attorneys general and mortgage servicers were revealed: "Though some questions about the details of this settlement remain unanswered, I am encouraged by the proposed deal between 50 state attorneys general and mortgage servicers. Many of the provisions included are just plain common sense and would bring transparency and fairness to mortgage servicing, thereby benefitting both homeowners and investors in mortgage-backed securities. Much of what is in the proposal is consistent with what I've been advocating for years. "However, we must remember that much of what is contained in the settlement is a restatement of current law. The fact that the state attorneys general need to remind servicers that they must comply with the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, for example, is a testament to just how shameful the industry's practices have become. "I am also concerned that the settlement does not address the precise amount in monetary penalties the state attorneys general are seeking, or exactly how those penalties would translate into assistance for homeowners. Moreover, many questions remain unanswered about how second lien modifications would work. "Perhaps most importantly, I think the public would also like to know the actual results of the state attorneys general investigation, as this information will inform whether or not the settlement is sufficient. How can we know if the settlement is fair if we don't know precisely what indemnification the servicers are receiving in exchange? "Finally, I am concerned that this settlement is only as strong as the enforcement that stands behind it. While the Republicans attempt to weaken and undermine the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, we must continue to protect the work and mission of the Bureau so that sustained, rigorous enforcement is possible." ###
03.03.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, took Committee Republicans to task today for voting to defund two programs that help struggling homeowners. "I am very disappointed in my colleagues on the opposite side of the aisle, who in their mania to achieve fiscal austerity at all costs, moved to cut two nascent programs designed to really help struggling homeowners," said Congresswoman Waters. "The reality is that homeowners in all 50 states, in urban cities, suburban communities, and rural areas, are struggling. They're not just Democrats or Republicans, they're Americans who by and large, through no fault of their own, either lost their jobs or their houses went underwater." Republicans voted to terminate the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) Short Refinance program. Under the program, investors agree to write down at least 10 percent on the borrower's mortgage. In exchange, the borrower is refinanced into an FHA loan. Borrowers must be current on their mortgage, and federal funds are only spent in the event of a borrower default. The program is an important option to have available for borrowers and numerous institutions, including Wells Fargo and GMAC/Ally, have recently agreed to participate in the program. Republicans also voted to end the Emergency Homeowners Relief Program, which provides low-cost loans to unemployed homeowners to help them pay their mortgage. It is based on a highly successful program in Pennsylvania, which has helped 42,700 people since 1983. Congresswoman Waters was instrumental in getting this program included in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. "In 2008 we were willing to spend almost $800 billion to save the ‘too big to fail' financial institutions that drove our economy into a ditch. But evidently, Congress is not willing to extend a mere pittance of that to help homeowners stay in their homes. And these programs have barely even gotten off the ground." Congresswoman Waters continued, "This is just part one of the Republican assault on homeowners and working-class people. The same attitude that led Speaker Boehner to say ‘so-be-it,' in response to news that the Republican budget would eliminate jobs, is fueling the Republicans' ‘repeal-but-don't-replace' agenda on foreclosure assistance. Next week they plan to undo the Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), without recognizing that we need more incentives to get servicers to do loss mitigation and loan modifications, not less. They have also targeted the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), a program I authored, which has really helped communities turn around after being devastated by foreclosures and blight. "I will passionately defend these programs and any government assistance that helps people facing desperate situations." ###
03.01.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) joined designers and other guests last week at the Beverly Center Macy's to pay tribute to fashion icon Eunice W. Johnson. The ‘For the Love of Color' event was an opportunity to pay homage to the life and legacy of Mrs. Johnson, who passed away last year, and to showcase some of her designs that were used in the famous Ebony Fashion Fair shows and loved by millions around the world. "I was so pleased I got to be in Los Angeles for this special event to honor the visionary work and style of Eunice Johnson. I've been a fan of hers for years," said Congresswoman Waters. "It's especially fitting that Ebony – which she and her husband John founded and built into a cultural institution for our community via the Johnson Publishing Company – and Macy's have come together to put on this fantastic show and honor her during African American history month. I'd like to personally congratulate Desiree Rodgers, the new head of Johnson Publishing, for executing such a wonderful event." "The Fashion Fair shows have not been just for fun: they have raised tens of millions of dollars for hospitals and other charities over a half century. Eunice left behind a legacy of philanthropy and compassion in addition to her considerable achievements to fashion. "I thank Macy's, Ebony, and the Johnson Publishing Company for making today a possibility. We miss Eunice dearly, but remember her fondly, especially during this event." ###
02.25.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today after reports of a deal between the Obama Administration and mortgage servicers to settle systemic fraud issues in the servicing and foreclosure industry: Reporting from yesterday and today indicates that federal regulators are close to reaching a settlement over what they describe as "shortcomings in foreclosure governance and document preparation processes," or what I have plainly referred to as "foreclosure fraud." The settlement, as described by the Wall Street Journal, Huffington Post, and other media outlets, leaves me deeply concerned about whether homeowners will receive the due process and fair treatment they deserve. Particularly, I am concerned about the $20 billion settlement figure, spread across 14 servicers, that has been noted in various reports. Though this figure sounds like a large settlement to those unfamiliar with the scale of the foreclosure crisis, we must remember that over 3 million homes have been lost to foreclosure since 2006, and some analysts expect an additional 11 million foreclosure filings in the near future. Moreover, the Center for Responsible Lending estimates that foreclosures between 2009 and 2012 will result in $1.86 trillion in lost wealth for families. We must also contrast this $20 billion settlement figure, shared by 14 servicers, with the $8.6 billion settlement paid by Countrywide Finance Corp. in 2008 as a result of origination fraud. I have every reason to believe that today's improper servicing is likely just as pervasive as origination fraud a few years ago. This settlement is too small, and will likely have one of two results: either borrowers will receive insignificant principal reductions, or reductions will only be available to a small subset of troubled borrowers. I am also concerned about the fact that this settlement, as reported, contains no discussion of mortgage servicing standards going forward. Though I was pleased that the Administration briefly mentioned the need for servicing changes in their Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac reform proposal, we have yet to see the details of their plan for servicing reform. As I have reiterated for years, meaningful servicing standards are absolutely necessary to protect the millions of borrowers vulnerable to foreclosure. My bill from the last Congress, The Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act of 2009 (H.R. 3451), which I plan to reintroduce, contained borrower protections that I believe could have prevented many of the servicing failures we see today. I urge regulators to insist on meaningful borrower protections that satisfy all of the servicing reforms described below: • Provide that servicers have a duty to engage in reasonable loss mitigation activities, as outlined in H.R. 3451; • Adopt servicer compensation structures that result in servicers having an interest as to whether the loan remains current, and separates simple transaction processing from actual loss mitigation activities; • Require that a formula govern how second lien holders are required to modify second liens in the event of a first lien modification; • Mandate that servicers establish a single-point-of-contact for each borrower seeking a loan modification, and provide that single-point-of-contact with actual decision making authority; • Require that an independent master servicer provide oversight and resolve disputes regarding servicers' actions; • End the foreclosure "dual track," which often results in borrowers being foreclosed upon by one division of a servicer while they are simultaneously attempting to negotiate a loan modification with another division of the servicer; • Require servicers to foreclose in their own names; • Change payment structures for law firms and other servicer contractors so that compensation is not tied to the speed at which these contractors foreclose; and • Require servicers to disclose the complete chain of title as well as a full accounting of all fees (both upon request and in the Notice of Default), and the use of lost note affidavits in their foreclosures. In addition to these borrower protections and servicing industry reforms, I continue to believe that it is essential for Congress to provide bankruptcy judges with the authority to alter mortgage debt on primary residences, an ability that judges already have on vacation homes. I also believe that the Treasury Department should pursue monetary penalties for servicers' failure to comply with Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) guidelines. These monetary penalties could be redirected for any number of purposes, including increasing legal services funding so that homeowners can be adequately represented by counsel in foreclosure. Finally, if the interagency report on foreclosure fraud does not already address this issue, I would urge regulators to conduct a robust investigation into whether parties involved in mortgage securitization may have failed to follow rules regarding the creation of Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits (REMICs), and are therefore in violation of tax rules. More generally, I remain concerned that our regulators didn't learn the lessons outlined in the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission report, which starkly laid out how a failure to protect borrowers led to an explosion in exploitive subprime mortgage products. All the evidence we have points to the fact that history is likely repeating itself. In fact, in a November hearing of my Subcommittee, regulators made it clear that they learned of foreclosure fraud via newspaper reports, despite having teams of examiners located within the operations of major servicers. For this reason, I was very skeptical from the outset that this investigation would yield substantive results, given that it was led by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC). As the subprime crisis has taught us, a regulator charged with protecting banks' safety and soundness cannot also be charged with protecting the due process rights of borrowers. Through yesterday and today's reporting, we learned that the OCC's position is that only a "small number" of borrowers were improperly foreclosed upon. I am doubtful of this claim, given what I've learned about servicer-driven defaults in the years since this crisis began. For instance, National Consumer Law Center attorney Diane Thompson has noted in testimony that around 50 percent of the borrowers she represents in foreclosure cases were subject to a servicer-driven default. Academic work from experts like Kurt Eggert at Chapman University School of Law provides additional support for claims of servicer misbehavior. And just recently, JPMorgan Chase admitted to wrongfully foreclosing on 14 active duty military personnel and overcharging another 4,000 military borrowers on their mortgages, in contravention of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. To date, all we have are these anecdotal reports. But through both Congressional hearings, and first-hand experience with servicers, I believe that there is substantial evidence indicating that improper fees, wrongful application of borrower payments, the use of unscrupulous foreclosure mills and other practices evidence the fact that improper foreclosures are widespread. I eagerly await the full results of the interagency foreclosure fraud investigation. In the meantime, I will continue to advocate for servicing reforms. I believe that these fundamental changes to mortgage servicing are needed not only for borrowers, but to ensure a fully-functioning mortgage market that protects investors and encourages the return of private capital moving forward. ###
02.24.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement today after Republicans on the Committee announced their intention to defund foreclosure prevention programs: "Republicans who support this proposal to end government-supported foreclosure prevention programs are turning their backs on their constituents and their communities who not only have been devastated by the foreclosure crisis, but who have directly benefited from government assistance. "Since 2006, over 3 million homes have been foreclosed upon, and some estimates put future foreclosures as high as 11 million. Communities have been devastated, many homeowners have been put out on the street, and the banks and servicers continue to act with shocking arrogance, disregard for the rule of law, and willful feet-dragging at the problems they created. "Few could have envisioned the state of our housing market today, where millions of hard-working Americans face foreclosure and homelessness on a daily basis. The foreclosure crisis has devastated this country – according to a RealtyTrac report issued today, over 25 percent of home sales last year were on foreclosed properties. Instead of running away from the problem, you help victims of predatory lending, tricks, and traps, and you tighten up regulations to make sure it never happens again. But in the Republican world of lax regulations, with the belief that private industry has a right to make as much money as it possibly can, no matter who gets hurt, these programs are somehow government overreach. "I have consistently said for months now that the HAMP program has failed to help some homeowners. But unlike my colleagues on the other side of the aisle, who would replace it with nothing, I have pushed for stronger solutions like mandatory loss mitigation and principal reductions and have demanded that our regulators hold servicers accountable. "I led efforts to create and fund the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), and I have seen the results in my hometown of Los Angeles and in many other cities and communities around the country firsthand. Foreclosed homes lead to blighted, boarded up, rundown neighborhoods that attract weeds, rodents, criminals, and other problems that drive down property values, put strains on firefighters and police officers, and make communities unsafe and unlivable for families. The Republicans have never liked this program, even though their communities and constituents have benefited directly from it and even though it creates jobs. "The Emergency Homeowners Relief Program – based on a highly successful program in Pennsylvania which has helped 42,700 people since 1983 – is a loan program that helps unemployed homeowners pay their mortgage. Why can't the government help homeowners avoid foreclosure, especially when the homeowner will pay the government back? To terminate the program without any indication of whether or not is a failure or a success is preemptive at best and jaded at worst. "And ending the FHA refinance program in its early stages, without fixing it, is just one more strike against homeowners and our housing market. "Unlike the Republicans, I remain committed to legislative solutions that actually help people stay in their homes, and don't leave them to the whims of servicers and other actors in the financial system who are predisposed to foreclose first and deal with the systemic problems in the industry later." ###
02.23.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and her husband, Ambassador Sidney Williams, were honored by the Our Authors Study Club, Inc. (OASC) in Marina del Rey on February 12th during the group's annual Dr. Carter G. Woodson Scholarship and Award Luncheon. The 2011 luncheon theme was ‘Lest We Forget: From the Civil War to Civil Rights'. Congresswoman Waters was honored with the Woman of Courage Award; Ambassador Williams was honored with the Meritorious Leadership Award. Congresswoman Waters said, "Sidney and I have long appreciated the work that Our Authors Study Club does for African American life, history, and culture in Los Angeles. Our community's history is a rich history, woven into the fabric of what makes Los Angeles a world-class, diverse city. We're very humbled by these awards, and always enjoy being among our friends Mordena Moore, Kenneth Bentley and Dr. Genevieve Shepherd – herself an honoree this year. Congratulations to Dr. Shepherd and the other OASC awardees." "Especially after a recession that has imposed significant hardship on African Americans in Los Angeles and nationwide, we are committed to continuing the work and the advocacy on behalf of our community," she said. Our Authors Study Club, Inc. is one of 53 branches of the Association for the Study of African American Life and History that was founded by Dr. Carter G. Woodson in 1915. Its national office is located at Howard University in Washington, DC. Its mission is to research, preserve, interpret and disseminate information about African American life, history, and culture to the citizens of Los Angeles. ###
02.18.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) entered the following statement into the Congressional Record today in opposition to amendment 267 offered by Rep. Steve King of Iowa (R), which would defund the Affordable Care Act passed in the last Congress. The amendment is part of H.R. 1 - Fiscal Year Continuing Appropriations Act for FY2011: "I rise to oppose the King amendment. Repealing or de-funding health care reform is part of the Republicans' No Jobs Agenda. The Affordable Care Act will create jobs. One study says that repealing the law will put in jeopardy the 250,000 to 400,000 new jobs this law will create each year. More importantly, de-funding the Affordable Care Act will jeopardize the many benefits this law provides to the American people. 1. The Affordable Care Act prohibits insurance companies from denying coverage to people with pre-existing conditions, like diabetes, heart disease, cancer, and HIV/AIDS. 2. Starting this year, the Affordable Care Act provides seniors in the "donut hole" a 50 percent discount on brand-name prescription drugs. 3. Also starting this year, small businesses may qualify for a tax credit that covers up to 35 percent of the cost of providing health insurance to their workers. 4. The Affordable Care Act provides $11 billion for community health centers, which serve low-income and uninsured families in my district and throughout the country. 5. The Affordable Care Act provides $15 billion for wellness and prevention activities, such as cancer screenings and child immunizations. 6. The Affordable Care Act provides funding to train additional primary care doctors and nurses, who will be able to serve patients in underserved parts of the country, like Los Angeles County. 7. Most importantly, the Affordable Care Act guarantees all Americans access to affordable health insurance that covers essential medical benefits and that cannot be taken away when they get sick and need it most. De-funding the Affordable Care Act will impact all Americans, but especially harm the least of these – women, children, people of color, the poor, the homeless – people who often lack a voice and whom I have championed during my four decades in public service. People of color are disproportionately impacted by a lack of access to health insurance. According to the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Minority Health, 20% of African-Americans were uninsured in the United States in 2007, and 32% of the Hispanic population was uninsured. Quality health care must be available for all Americans regardless of race, level of income, gender, or the existence of a pre-existing condition. That's why the Affordable Care Act specifically addresses health disparities and protects the rights of people with pre-existing conditions, and that's we must fully fund the Affordable Care Act. I urge my colleagues to oppose this amendment."
02.18.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement upon the passing of her colleague, former Rep. John ‘Steve' Horn (R-Calif.): "I am very saddened to learn of the passing of Congressman Horn. "In 1992, a banner year for Democrats in Congress, Steve surprised us all by being elected as a Republican to represent Long Beach and Bellflower after a distinguished career that included serving his country in uniform, writing public policy, promoting civil rights, and leading CSU Long Beach for almost 20 years. "Indeed, Steve went on to represent his constituents with distinction for 10 years, and gained respect on both sides of the aisle as a good steward of the environment and as a public servant dedicated to government transparency and accountability. He was a pleasant and decent man, and I enjoyed working with him on areas of concern to our constituents in the South Bay. "I'm particularly saddened that he passed away of complications from Alzheimer's disease, which I have sought more research, awareness, and funding for during my career. "My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends; may he rest in peace." ###
02.18.2011	Below are remarks as prepared for delivery by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), which were supposed to have been delivered at a press conference organized on Capitol Hill today by Campus Progress in support of the Department of Education's gainful employment rules. House votes precluded the Congresswoman from attending: "I would like to thank Campus Progress for organizing this press conference today, and to thank our guests for being here and telling us their stories and for telling us why this gainful employment rule is so necessary. And I'd like to acknowledge and thank my colleague Congresswoman Moore for being here and for her work on this issue. Since my time as an Assemblywoman in California – over twenty years ago – I have found myself going toe-to-toe with these for-profit schools. I could go on and on about the people I've met who were just looking for an education and a good-paying job, but who found themselves undereducated, unemployed, and in debt once they left school. And the vast majority of them were women, African American or Hispanic, and from a low-income background. We know the statistics about how these students have been preyed upon by school employees with intense recruitment goals. We know the students are enticed with promises of affordable lending, a decent education, and job placement in the field they are studying. And we know that when they leave school – if they finish – they are facing staggering debt and unemployment. So instead of just focusing on how these schools often harm students more than they help them, I want to talk about the extremely important gainful employment rules currently being considered by the Department of Education. These rules have dual importance: they would protect students and they would save taxpayer money. They would do this by attacking bad programs that are not fulfilling the obligations of eligibility for Title IV funding. It's important to reiterate that the gainful employment rules would attack bad programs – they would not attack students or their ability to attend school. And we're talking about the worst of the worst: in 2012 about 5 percent of the schools would be subject to tighter regulations under the rules. This, of course, is not what opponents of the rules will tell you. They'll say the schools lend to underserved and low-income populations that can't secure traditional funding and therefore can't attend traditional non-profit public or private schools. Well, I'd like to quote the respected educational and civil rights leaders Marian Wright Edelman and Ben Jealous, who recently wrote in USAToday that that argument "misses the mark. It's like arguing that because mortgage lenders targeted minorities with their most exploitative products and practices, we should not have stopped them." As someone who was worked to stem the tide of foreclosures – brought on by subprime and predatory lending largely to communities of color and to those who could not afford these exotic products – and to hold the unscrupulous accountable, this is an argument that resonates with me and should resonate with all public policymakers who look out for the vulnerable and who want to be good stewards of the taxpayer dollar. But I'll do my colleagues one better with an argument that may hit home even further. Right now in Washington, we're talking about budgets, deficits, job creation, and the economy. These schools derive between 85 and 90 percent of their funding from the Federal government. That's taxpayer dollars. And what's worse, the government is not getting its return on investment: the schools serve only 10 percent of U.S. students, but absorb about 25 percent of federal student aid. And what's worse, almost half of student borrowers – upwards of 45 percent – who have begun repaying their loans since 2008 have defaulted. Many of these schools aggressively recruit students, give them a shoddy education, and leave them jobless and penniless upon graduation. Let's reform that by making sure that these programs are meaningfully and affordably preparing students for work and life. If they aren't, they do not deserve federal funding, period. There are many reasons why I want to tighten up regulations on these schools, which in my view are really more like for-profit corporations. But today, I urge my colleagues to vote against the Kline-Foxx-McCarthy-Hastings amendment and to allow the Department of Education's gainful employment rules to move forward. It's the right thing to do for students, and it's the right thing to do for taxpayers. In fact, this is a surefire way to both help people and save the government money. Thank you." ###
02.18.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) reintroduced her legislation from the 111th Congress today that would make key investments in affordable public housing. H.R. 762, the Public Housing Reinvestment and Tenant Protection Act of 2011, contains provisions to revitalize housing units and neighborhoods; address one-for-one replacement issues; empower housing authorities to make reforms; and to create jobs, with support from Reps. Barney Frank (D-MA) and Nydia Velazquez (D-NY), her colleagues on the Financial Services Committee. She issued the following statement: "For many years now, I have worked to preserve and improve the nation's public housing developments, which provide much needed affordable housing for 1.2 million low-income families nationwide. Public housing is currently in a crisis. Since 1995, the nation has lost 200,000 public housing units. HUD estimates that 10,000 units a year are demolished or sold through its demolition-disposition process. "Some of these units have been replaced by housing choice vouchers. However, a housing choice voucher, which belongs to an individual, can never truly replace a public housing unit, which belongs to a community. The affordable rental crisis in America today has been exacerbated by the lack of hard affordable rental units and an overreliance on vouchers. "Waiting lists for vouchers tell us that there is plenty of demand for housing; however, the demand is high because our nation has enacted policies that have reduced the supply of affordable rental housing. The systematic disinvestment in public housing is one such policy. "My legislation would reverse that policy by preserving our public housing units, improving neighborhoods, and protecting tenants. I am pleased that I was able to work with Reps. Frank and Velazquez on this legislation, which is critical for our economy, our communities, and our most vulnerable citizens. Each of the bill's four titles is designed to reinvest in public housing developments or residents. "Title I establishes a Choice Neighborhoods grant program. Under Choice Neighborhoods public and assisted housing developments, and the neighborhoods in which they are located, would be revitalized. When the Administration proposed its Choice Neighborhoods Initiative as the successor to HOPE VI, we worked to incorporate the principles of HOPE VI reform—including one-for-one replacement and tenant protections— into that proposal. "The resulting legislation strikes the right balance between preserving public housing and providing grantees with the flexibility to improve and stabilize neighborhoods devastated by extreme poverty by providing neighborhoods with critical community improvements, such as gardens, parks, public transportation, retail, and other amenities typically lacking in such neighborhoods. "Title II of the bill would reform Section 18, the law that governs the disposition and demolition of public housing units. Currently, the law does not require that demolished units be replaced at all. Notifications to residents are lacking and, if any units are rebuilt, many residents find that due to restrictive rescreening criteria they are not able to move back in. The legislation corrects these problems. "Title III of the bill, authored by Rep. Frank, addresses the capital needs in public housing by providing public housing agencies (PHAs) with the financial tools they need to preserve public housing, including one-for-one replacement. It also provides resources for PHAs to make energy efficiency improvements in public housing. "Title IV, authored by Rep. Velazquez, would create job opportunities for public housing residents by establishing a program to train these residents to become in-home health care aides for elderly and disabled public housing residents. "This bill represents a reinvestment in our infrastructure, our communities, and our citizens and is precisely the type of legislation needed to win the future." ###
02.15.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) participated in a press conference today with her Congressional Black Caucus colleagues to follow up on the Jan. 28th CBC Debt Commission by rolling out a white paper on the panel's findings, and to discuss the Republicans' extreme budget plans. The following remarks were prepared for delivery: "Thank you very much. I want to thank Chairman Cleaver for convening this press conference today to follow up on the CBC Commission on the Budget Deficit, Economic Crisis, and Wealth Creation that we held on January 28th. And I'd like to thank Congressman Bobby Scott and my other colleagues here today for their work on these issues. During my opening remarks at the Commission two weeks ago, I said that "The 112th Congress will be defined by the current $1.6 trillion deficit. Democrats, and Republican lawmakers, are concerned about what impact the deficit will have on the economy, on our ability to borrow funds, and on the continued financial viability of our country. However, even more concerning than the threats the deficit poses are certain proposals to address the deficit." And during my remarks I focused on the government's important role in investing in and supporting organizations like the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau & the Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion; programs like Section 8 and Community Development Block Grants; and initiatives like affordable housing and helping people avoid foreclosure. Government investment in people, education, infrastructure, and innovation can create jobs, and these jobs pay for themselves and then some by allowing people to earn, spend, invest, and save. Simply put, we need the investments now more than ever. One of the experts at my portion of the Debt Panel, Dr. Algernon Austin, had some sobering statistics to share, which are detailed in the CBC report: • The U.S. ranked 20th out of 24 countries in providing early childhood education; • The U.S. ranked 12th out of 36 countries in college completion rates; • U.S. Schools need nearly $300 billion of required maintenance ; • 29% of all U.S. transit assets are in poor or marginal condition; and • The U.S. ranked 15th out of 30 nations in broadband penetration . These facts should give all policymakers pause. But we can do something about it! Construction workers, technical and transportation experts, childcare providers, teachers, students – these kinds of populations can be supported through key government investments in jobs. I want to take a minute to describe one concrete example of an initiative that requires government investment to strengthen communities, improve and upgrade infrastructure, and most importantly create and sustain jobs. Community Development Block Grants (CDBG): • Helps homeowners rehabilitate their properties, including removing lead paint hazards; • Empowers cities to pursue code enforcement, so that abandoned properties don't become safe havens for illegal activity; • Enables cities to improve their infrastructure; • Allows cities to enforce fair housing laws; and most importantly • CDBG is a job creator. It funds small business incubation programs; it funds job training and job placement services; and it allows cities to leverage private sector money for economic development. If you look at the Recovery Act website you can see information on 824 CDBG grants issued since 2009. The data shows that CDBG is creating one job for every $7,000 of federal spending – a rate 8 times as effective as the rest of the job programs funded under the Act. In the Republicans' extreme budget plan, CDBG funding would be slashed to $1.5 billion from $4.45 billion annually. Of course, this is just one of their excessive and indiscriminate cuts to the federal budget, but it speaks volumes about their disconnect from what government actually does. One of the few things they do believe in, however, is that government should cut taxes for the wealthiest among us. The tax-deal that was reached by Congressional Republicans and President Obama late last year is estimated to cost almost $900 billion over 10 years, as laid out in the CBC report and reported elsewhere. That deal, alone, is over half the projected deficit we're currently facing. So why can't we talk more about that bad deal? Why can't we seriously talk about fiscal reforms to our massive defense budget? Why can't we say if we got rid of the tax cuts for the wealthiest and if we got serious about ending the war in Afghanistan, which currently costs about $2 billion a week, we could make serious inroads toward getting our fiscal house in order? Well, I am saying it today. We are saying it together through this report and through our commitment to the American people to not balance budgets on the backs of the least of these. Other solutions to deficit reduction and job creation exist. We only need to summon the courage to have an honest and open conversation about all of our options. Thank you." ###
02.11.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), the Ranking Member on the Financial Services Subcommittee on Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises, released the following statement today after the Obama Administration unveiled its plan, "Reforming America's Housing Finance Market": "I appreciate that the Administration has presented Congress with a report that at least provides a framework and a starting point for us to begin to fix the housing industry in this country, which we all agree needs reform. "After reading the proposals, my underlying concern is that they may radically increase the cost of homeownership, and housing in general, over the coming years. As we continue to grapple with high joblessness, a slowly-recovering economy, a tax system that exacerbates income inequality, and uncertainty in the credit markets, I am very concerned about any plan that likely tells the next generation of Americans that many of them will be unable to own a home, even if they are working and otherwise creditworthy. "The 30-year, fixed-rate mortgage has been the key for millions of Americans to achieve sustainable homeownership for the past 80 years. This safe and stable mortgage product would only be accessible under one of the options. Therefore, I am very concerned about the affordability of housing and access to lending for working, low- and middle-income, and underserved populations. Without safe and sustainable mortgage products as part of a housing finance system that provides affordability and access, prospective homebuyers could be faced with large downpayments, significant closing costs, and high interest rates. We really have to think about the impact of more expensive housing costs on our economy. "I am pleased to see that the proposal highlights the need for national standards for mortgage servicing and encourages reforming the way servicers have been compensated based on the rush to foreclose – rather than help homeowners through modification or other means. I have repeatedly called for these kinds of reforms. Likewise, I am happy to see that the plan reiterated the Administration's support for a dedicated funding mechanism to support the development and preservation of more affordable rental housing for the lowest-income families. I have been fighting for such dedicated funding for many years, and hope that the Administration throws its full weight behind the future of affordable rental housing. "I reiterate my commitment to working with my colleagues across the aisle to come up with a plan that brings stability and liquidity to the market, creates access to affordable lending and renting for the American people, creates accountability and transparency for investors and regulators, and ends the creation of institutions that become ‘too big to fail', which pose a systemic risk to the market and the entire economy." ###
02.11.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today, commemorating the 21st anniversary of Nelson Mandela's release from Victor Verster Prison in South Africa: "I'll never forget February 11, 1990, the day that Nelson Mandela walked out of the darkness of an unjust 27 year prison sentence, and into the light of a life with much more to accomplish for a nation on the verge of historic change. "Truly transformational figures that have altered a nation, indeed the world, with their ideals, their determination, and their basic existence, are very rare. But Nelson captivated the world through his struggles for freedom, equality, and justice for black South Africans at a time when they were, at best, second class citizens. "Over the years, I've had the distinct honor and privilege to know him and call him my friend: in 1990, I chaired the welcome committee for the Los Angeles stop on his eight-city U.S. tour, and helped organize a concert and rally attended by 90,000 people; the next year, I traveled to Durban to attend the first ANC conference since his release from prison; in 1994, I traveled with the official American delegation to attend the inauguration of Nelson Mandela as President of the Republic of South Africa; and in 1998, I was pleased to welcome President Mandela to the United States once again, this time to receive the Congressional Gold Medal. "President Mandela is an inspiration to millions of people in South Africa and around the world, and on this anniversary we honor him and the many South Africans who put their lives on the line by confronting racism and discrimination head-on. "Each day I leave my office, I glance at my framed copy of the 1994 South African presidential ballot. It gives me hope for the future, because it demonstrates that the repressed will persevere, that the downtrodden will stand up, and that the voiceless will be heard. "I send my very best to President Mandela and his family on this anniversary and always." ### Among her many achievements as a State Assemblywoman from 1977-1991, Waters was responsible for A.B. 134, legislation that allowed California to divest $12 billion in state pension funds tied to the Apartheid regime in South Africa. She was also Los Angeles Chair of the Free South Africa Movement. In 2008, Waters received the Republic of South Africa's ‘Order of the Companions of O.R. Tambo Silver Award', for "dedicating her life to the upliftment of the poor and her outstanding contribution to the struggle against Apartheid and the attainment of a democratic, non-racial and a non-sexist South Africa.
02.11.2011	The House Financial Services Committee adopted an amendment by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to conduct oversight over the situation in Haiti one year after a devastating earthquake and relief and reconstruction efforts in the country. She offered the amendment jointly with Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY) during a markup of the Committee's oversight plan for the 112th Congress. The amendment was adopted by the Committee without opposition by a voice vote. "I am pleased that my colleagues agreed to conduct oversight over the dire economic situation facing the people of Haiti and the efforts of international donors to rebuild the country. Unfortunately, one year after Haiti's tragic earthquake, the country is still devastated. More than 800,000 displaced people are still living in tent camps, and the conditions in many of these camps are appalling. A cholera epidemic has spread across the country. Mountains of rubble are piled in the streets, and there is a critical need for food, clean water and sanitation facilities. Meanwhile, little if any of the money that was pledged by international donors has reached the people of Haiti," said Congresswoman Waters. Following last year's earthquake, an international donors' conference was convened to raise funds for Haiti's reconstruction. World governments and international organizations pledged $9 billion to rebuild Haiti. The World Bank pledged $399 million, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) pledged $170 million, and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) pledged $2.2 billion. Within the House of Representatives, the Financial Services Committee has oversight responsibilities over the IMF, the World Bank, and the IDB. "Effective oversight is critical if the billions pledged by the IMF, the World Bank and other international donors are to be disbursed in a timely manner and used effectively to improve the lives of the Haitian people," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters has been a friend of Haiti for many years. Immediately after the earthquake, she introduced the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573) to cancel Haiti's debts. The bill was supported by several members of the Financial Services Committee, including then-Chairman Barney Frank and then-Ranking Member Spencer Bachus. The bill passed the House by voice vote and was signed into law on April 26, 2010. ###
02.08.2011	At a press conference ahead of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on the Constitution hearing on H.R. 3, the "No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act" today, House Judiciary Democrats staunchly rejected Republicans' characterization of the bill as a federal funding measure. In their remarks, Judiciary Democrats, led by Ranking Member John Conyers, Jr. (D-Mich.) and Constitution Subcommittee Ranking Member Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), asserted that the bill is a vicious attack against women and a woman's right to choose, and an attempt to promote an extreme social agenda when Americans are looking to Congress for jobs and economic relief. H.R. 3, sponsored by Rep. Chris Smith (R-N.J.), would have a devastating effect on women and families. The bill further narrows the Hyde Amendment's already limited exceptions for rape and incest—coverage would be limited to women who can demonstrate "forcible rape" and incest survivors who are minors. The bill would also have the effect of eliminating the market for private insurance coverage for abortion. It would impose enormous tax penalties on Americans and businesses with private insurance plans that include abortion coverage. Over the objections of D.C. Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton, the bill would prevent Washington residents from using even local health care funds as they see fit. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), a senior member of the Judiciary Committee, said, "This is an offensive bill, period. Redefining rape? Forbidding women from using their private insurance plans to access a legal procedure? Targeting poor women, women with at-risk pregnancies, and women serving their country in uniform? They must be joking. "The Republicans came to power in Congress saying they were going to focus on job creation and economic growth, but the introduction of this bill reveals their obsession with pushing an extreme social agenda that further restricts the right of women to access health services, including abortions, and have a say over their own bodies. "H.R. 3 took us all by surprise, to be sure, but I know that I, my colleagues, those in the advocacy community, and women throughout this country are ready to organize and to fight. In fact, we must organize and we must fight now so that we send a strong signal, in no uncertain terms, that this kind of assault upon women is reprehensible, flies in the face of current law and precedent, and distracts from the important work before the Congress of job creation and economic growth. "If it's a fight the Republicans want, then it's a fight we'll give them." "The No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act has very little to do with federal funding and a lot more to do with having the government dictate the terms of health care and health insurance coverage for women and their families," said House Judiciary Democrats. "H.R. 3 would penalize Americans for seeking to exercise their own private health care decisions. By redefining rape to limit abortion coverage, and by forcing federal employees, military servicewomen, and women with high-risk pregnancies to seek marginal treatment—or no treatment at all, H.R. 3 would be disastrous for the health and well-being of women. We refuse to stand by silently as Republicans attempt to take our country a hundred steps backwards." ###
02.07.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world through increased education, screening, research, treatment, and funding, released the following statement today in recognition of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day: "Today is National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day. This day is a time to remember the devastating impact that HIV and AIDS have had on African Americans. But it is also a time to recognize the progress that has been made improving awareness about HIV/AIDS and expanding access to HIV/AIDS testing and treatment among African Americans and indeed all Americans, and to dedicate ourselves to continuing to fight this epidemic and work for the day when no one will have to live with – or die from – this terrible disease. "The impact of HIV/AIDS on African American men, women, and children has truly been devastating. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, African Americans account for 45 percent of new HIV infections, 46 percent of people living with HIV/AIDS, 48 percent of new AIDS cases, and 57 percent of AIDS deaths, despite the fact that we are only 12 percent of the population of the United States. HIV/AIDS is the fourth leading cause of death for black men and the third leading cause of death for black women between the ages of 25 and 44. About 65 percent of new AIDS cases among American women are black, and 68 percent of new AIDS cases among American teenagers are black. Blacks account for more new HIV infections, more AIDS diagnoses, more people living with HIV/AIDS, and more deaths related to HIV/AIDS than any other racial or ethnic groups in America. "Nevertheless, there is cause for hope. In a survey by the Kaiser Family Foundation, 40 percent of African Americans reported having been tested for HIV within the previous year, and more than 20 percent of African Americans surveyed named HIV/AIDS as the number one health problem in the United States. This illustrates growing HIV/AIDS awareness and concern within our community. "Forward-looking federal policies and programs have improved our nation's ability to prevent, diagnose and treat HIV/AIDS among all Americans affected by the disease. The Minority AIDS Initiative, which I developed in 1998 when I was chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, has strengthened the ability of the African American, Latino, and other minority communities to respond to the epidemic. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) continue to promote awareness to reduce the spread of HIV and testing to identify those who are infected. Advances in research supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH), together with HIV/AIDS treatment programs such as the Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program and the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), have allowed people living with HIV/AIDS to live longer and more productive lives. Last year, the Obama Administration adopted a National AIDS Strategy to improve coordination among agencies and programs and respond to the epidemic in a comprehensive manner. "The passage of the Affordable Care Act has begun the process of reforming our nation's health system so that all Americans will have access to the health care they need. This law is especially important for people living with HIV/AIDS, many of whom have been denied health insurance coverage because their infection is a pre-existing condition. "Unfortunately, the progress we have made against this devastating disease is in grave danger of being reversed. I am deeply concerned about the growing numbers of infected Americans who are on waiting lists for ADAP because Congress has not provided sufficient funding for this life-saving program. Funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative has been virtually stagnant since 2003, despite the ongoing spread of HIV among African Americans and other communities of color. Meanwhile, Congress is considering drastic reductions in funding for critical public health programs like NIH research, CDC prevention programs, Ryan White and ADAP. "Two weeks ago, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 2, the Patient's Rights Repeal Act, to repeal the Affordable Care Act and allow health insurance companies to continue to deny coverage to Americans living with HIV/AIDS. "I call upon the Administration to include robust funding for these critical programs in its budget for the coming fiscal year, and I call upon my colleagues in Congress to maintain funding for HIV/AIDS research, prevention, testing and treatment and support full implementation of the Affordable Care Act so that people living with HIV/AIDS can continue to be productive members of our society." ### • Congresswoman Waters spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998 when she served as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus. The initiative initially received $156 million in funding, and has received approximately $400 million per year since fiscal year 2003. Congresswoman Waters and 56 of her colleagues requested $610 million in funding for this program in fiscal year 2011. • During the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429), a bipartisan bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in Federal prisons. This bill was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, but was not taken up by the Senate prior to adjournment last year. • During the 111th Congress, Congresswoman Waters has also introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137) to require health insurance companies to cover routine HIV tests.
02.03.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after Haiti's Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) announced that Michel ‘Sweet Micky' Martelly and Mirlande Manigat will advance to a second round runoff next month in that nation's presidential election, which is consistent with the recommendations included in a report from the Organization of American States (OAS): "Many Haitians and international observers have never felt the CEP to be legitimately organized under the Prevál government, and I remain convinced that the presidential election held on November 28th was deeply flawed and that the results should have been thrown out because of reports of ballot-stuffing; missing or excluded tally sheets at many polling locations; the exclusion of Lavalas, the country's largest political party; and the thousands of displaced persons who were disenfranchised either because they were unable to obtain new voter cards or because there were no accessible polling places at the tent camps where they now live. "It appears that the international community – led by the United States, Canada, and France – has used its tremendous power and influence to determine the outcome of the first round of the elections and the candidates for the runoff. Once again, the people of Haiti have been denied the opportunity to express their will through free, fair, credible, and transparent elections – which are important factors for effective governance – and once again, it appears that the international community is determining the political fate of Haiti. "Just as I and other advocates for Haiti warned the State Department and our international allies prior to November 28th that we should play a role in helping to establish free and fair elections, we now are warning them that – with the combination of this electoral outcome; the unclear status of President Prevál's departure; the continued exclusion of Lavalas and other would-be electoral participants; Baby Doc's return and the reemergence of individuals who were part of his brutal Tonton Macoutes paramilitary force; and the widespread unrest among the Haitian people because of the political and humanitarian state of the nation – none of this bodes well for Haiti. "Since the United States strongly pushed for the adoption of the OAS report's recommendations, our government must accept responsibility to try and turn this debacle into new possibilities for Haiti. The Haitian people deserve a legitimately elected government that will begin to rebuild the political and civil institutions of the nation, step up the pace of debris removal, contain the cholera epidemic before warmer weather returns, and be a good steward of the billions of aid dollars trickling into Haiti so that recovery and rebuilding from the earthquake is done in a transparent, accountable, and efficient manner. "Do we truly have the will to be of assistance to the Haitian people, and support their desire to govern themselves and to determine their own future, rather than playing the historical role of rearranging Haiti after the fact? And if so, where do we go from here? "I continue to have reservations and questions about the judicial system and the Haitian government's operational infrastructure; the lack of transparency and accountability that has long plagued the government; and how any government that comes to power under these terms will be in a position to receive, disperse, and oversee the tremendous international resources that will be required to rebuild Haiti. "The decision has been made, but the possibility of a strong democracy to put Haiti on a path to a better future remains in question." ###
02.01.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today: "I was pleased to learn today that the Federal Reserve has decided to table two proposed regulations contained within FRB Docket No. R-1390 that would have been extremely harmful to American consumers. "While these rules were being considered, I wrote to Chairman Bernanke to strongly advise that he withdraw these proposals. Based on the many hearings I conducted in my Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity during the 111th Congress, I think the Chairman made the right decision. In the days leading up to the economic meltdown in 2008, we saw a steady erosion of consumer protections and a failure on the part of our regulators to act on behalf of American consumers. I am pleased that Chairman Bernanke is working to ensure that we do not repeat those mistakes. By rescinding these proposed rules, the Fed is ensuring that homeowners continue to have a major defense against foreclosure and that elderly homeowners are protected from unscrupulous cross-selling. At a time when our housing market is in crisis, we need more protections for homeowners; not less. "Again, I applaud Chairman Bernanke for withdrawing these proposals, and I look forward to working with him, our other regulators, and the new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to ensure that financial products are sold in a manner that encourages transparency, honesty and open competition." ###
01.28.2011	"One of the most significant endeavors in our nation's space program, the 1986 Challenger Mission was a result of NASA's effort to better connect the American public with its space program by sending the first civilian, a teacher from New Hampshire named Christa McAuliffe, into outer space. Indeed, along with the rest of the crew, which included another female on board, Judy Resnik, the first Asian American in space, Ellison Onizuka, and Ron McNair, the second African American in space whose namesake is the basis for an exemplary scholarship program that helps disadvantaged and underrepresented youth study the sciences – the mission exemplified the strength, beauty, and diversity of our country. "We all remember where we were that day, watching the launch on live television and infused with the excitement of their mission and what it meant for the future of our nation and our planet. "Ellison Onizuka, Ron McNair, Greg Jarvis, Judy Resnik, Michael Smith, Dick Scobee, and Christa McAuliffe were brilliant minds taken from us too soon, and on this solemn 25th anniversary of the disaster we remember the way they rallied a nation with their dedication to and passion for science, exploration, and discovery. They were a brave, diverse, and pioneering team that continues to inspire the hopes and dreams of Americans and people around the world." ###
01.25.2011	After thoroughly reviewing the FCC and DOJ orders regarding the approval of the acquisition of NBC by Comcast, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) today released the following statement: "Although the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the Department of Justice (DOJ) last week released their respective orders approving the Comcast-NBCU acquisition, I remain deeply concerned about the implications of such a massive merger on our nation's media landscape and the Commission's diminishing capacity to fulfill its statutory goals. In the year since Comcast announced its plans to merge with NBC Universal, I have repeatedly called on both the Commission and DOJ to conduct a thorough and substantive review – showing due deference to precedent and applicable provisions under Federal antitrust laws and the Communications Act. Despite persistent arguments many Republicans may make against federal oversight of the private sector, I firmly believe it is imperative that we have appropriate regulations in place to ensure that corporate goals are not achieved at the expense of the public welfare and our federal interest in promoting diversity, competition, and localism. The combination of a major content provider with our nation's leading cable service provider warranted every level of public and congressional scrutiny it endured over the past year. To that end, I must express my disappointment with the failure of either agency – particularly the FCC – to craft substantive conditions that are in conformity with established precedent and standards on media diversity and localism. "However, given the steady erosion of antitrust enforcement and laws under previous Administrations, I commend the DOJ's Antitrust Division for its efforts to craft a consent decree containing provisions that can work to ease some -- albeit, not all -- of the concerns raised during the course of the review. I am also pleased that the Division incorporated network neutrality conditions into its order. For its part, the FCC was obligated to conduct a more comprehensive public interest analysis under the Communications Act. Unfortunately, despite the amount of public participation and input in the Commission's proceedings, it does not appear that the depth of analysis was reflected in the prescribed final conditions. I strongly suspect that the Commission's slight augmentations to rules and administrative proceedings will not satisfy those who are still waiting for the agency to hear their program carriage or access complaints against Comcast. Accordingly, I do not believe the American public can have much confidence in Comcast-NBCU's commitment to launch 10 new independent channels when current networks have had so many challenges negotiating reasonable carriage terms with the cable giant. And while discount broadband, "limited-time" special offers, and philanthropic endeavors are commendable efforts we strongly encourage the private sector to embrace, they are irrelevant to promoting diversity among broadcast viewpoints and FCC license holders. In the final analysis, the FCC's conditions and the DOJ's consent decree will only last 3 to 7 years, leaving even less protection for the American public once these conditions expire. Since no divestitures, separation of corporate authority, or any other stringent conditions were attached to the acquisition, the FCC's 279-page order approving the Comcast-NBCU merger will be even more meaningless than it is today. "Contrary to my Republican colleagues' claims that the FCC's order is an overreach of regulatory authority, there is nothing in the Commission's order that Comcast-NBC did not agree to or previously offer as their "public interest commitments" early in the review proceedings. In fact, the memoranda of understanding were only slight variations of the same commitments Comcast-NBC submitted to Congress and the FCC in July 2010. Similarly, the network neutrality conditions were taken from the rule the Commission adopted last month – a narrowly tailored compromise with the telecommunications industry that excludes mobile wireless companies. "I understand that there are many independent networks, writers, directors, actors, and programmers who cynically predicted that the government would succumb to pressure, and fail to truly serve the public interest. It was in this vein that I acted early in the Comcast-NBC merger review process – introducing legislation to encourage the FCC to extend the public comment period so they would have the appropriate amount of time to hear from the creative community, especially those who have felt excluded. I strongly believed that broad public engagement and participation would ensure accountability, even if the outcome was pre-determined. During the course of this review, I have had the opportunity to meet many professionals working within the media and telecommunications industry who all expressed a great deal of uncertainty about their future in a post-Comcast-NBCU merger marketplace. While we can only move forward from this point, I am committed to hosting discussions with the media industry, the FCC, and the public interest community so that we can develop ideas and policies that will truly promote and encourage media diversity, localism, and competition. As a Member on the House Judiciary Committee's new Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, Competition, and the Internet, I look forward to working with my colleagues in our ongoing efforts to ensure that our federal policies balance sensible regulation with the realities of a vibrant and ever-evolving industry." ###
01.25.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Capital Markets Subcommittee, delivered the following remarks at a press conference today on funding for the SEC, which under the Republican budget plan would revert to FY 2008 levels. Congresswoman Waters was joined by Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), the Financial Services Committee's Ranking Member, and Rep. Carolyn Maloney (D-N.Y.), the Ranking Member of the Financial Services Financial Institutions Subcommittee: "Thank you, Rep. Frank for inviting me here today to speak on the need for adequate funding levels for the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Like you and Rep. Maloney, I am very concerned about the impact of the Republican resolution to freeze non-military discretionary spending at Fiscal Year 2008 levels. This funding freeze will have negative consequences for a variety of agencies—including those that provide much needed social services at a time when unemployment is at 9.4 percent. However, it will also negatively impact those agencies that are charged with policing our financial markets like the SEC. "It's interesting that the Republicans have chosen 2008 as the year on which to base their funding cut. It's interesting because that was the year in which our financial markets collapsed. It was also about that time when we realized that the resources we had provided to the regulators of those markets had been sadly lacking. This was especially the case at the SEC. For example, from 2005 to 2007 (during the build up to the crisis that imploded in 2008), the SEC lost 10 percent of its staff. In addition, from 2005 to 2009 the SEC's investments in information technology declined 50 percent. "Let's put these numbers into perspective. The SEC's 3,800 employees currently oversee approximately 35,000 entities—including 11,450 investment advisers, 7,600 mutual funds, 5,000 broker-dealers, and more than 10,000 public companies. Furthermore, these staff police companies that trade on average 8.5 billion shares in the listed equity markets alone every day. "The Dodd-Frank Act will prevent the next crisis by authorizing the SEC to regulate derivatives and credit ratings agencies and provide oversight of investment advisors and broker-dealers. In order to do this, the SEC needs additional funding. Unfortunately, House Republicans don't want the SEC to staff up or to even maintain their current staffing levels. If funded at FY 2008 levels, the SEC would have to lay off hundreds of staff and cut its IT budget down to $86 million, a level that would not allow it to implement the new systems it needs to protect the nation's securities markets. "I understand that Republicans are concerned about spending. Democrats are concerned about the deficit too. However, when we have resolutions like the one we are voting on today that blindly take an axe to the budget instead of a scalpel, we are placing our security—the security of our financial markets in this case—at risk." ###
01.20.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) was selected today by her Financial Services Committee colleagues to serve as the Ranking Member of the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee. The Congresswoman, who will be the second-ranking Democrat on the Financial Services Committee, released the following statement: "I would like to thank my colleagues for the honor to serve as Ranking Member of the Capital Markets and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee in the 112th Congress. "In this new role, I look forward to the work of examining and reforming the government's role in the secondary mortgage market, ensuring that mortgages remain accessible and affordable for qualified borrowers, holding regulators accountable, and finding smart and innovative solutions to the challenges facing our capital markets, which are essential to our nation's continued economic recovery. "I look forward to working with the Subcommittee's chairman, Rep. Scott Garrett, to define our priorities and do the work that is in the interest of the American people and economy." In addition to Capital Markets, Congresswoman Waters will also serve on two Subcommittees: Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity, and Oversight and Investigations. All Democratic Committee assignments are finalized by the Steering and Policy Committee and the Democratic Caucus. ###
01.19.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) voted today against H.R. 2, the Patient's Rights Repeal Act, the Republicans' bill to repeal the Affordable Care Act, the landmark health care reform law that was enacted with her support last year. "The Affordable Care Act protects the rights of all Americans to access health care, to receive important screenings and preventive services, to pay competitive and fair prices, and to keep their health insurance when they get sick and need it most. Repeal of this law will impact all Americans, but especially harm the least of these – women, children, people of color, the poor, the homeless – people who often lack a voice and whom I have championed during my four decades in public service," said Congresswoman Waters. People of color are disproportionately impacted by a lack of access to health insurance. According to the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of Minority Health, 20% of African-Americans were uninsured in the United States in 2007, and 32% of the Hispanic population was uninsured. People of color are also disproportionately impacted by pre-existing conditions, such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer and HIV/AIDS. For example, the Office of Minority Health reports that both African-American and Mexican-American men are 30% more likely to die from heart disease than White Americans, and the Kaiser Family Foundation reports that people of color make up an astonishing 65% of new HIV infections. "Quality health care must be available for all Americans regardless of race, level of income, gender, or the existence of a pre-existing condition. That's why the Affordable Care Act specifically addresses these disparities and other pre-existing conditions and makes it illegal to be denied health insurance because of them; and that's why I am so strongly opposed to the Patient's Rights Repeal Act," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
01.19.2011	"I've known for a long time that the mortgage servicing industry is broken and I'm pleased that the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) has finally announced its intent to propose action to fix one of the biggest problems with our servicing system: how servicers are compensated. I've long maintained that until foreclosures cease to be profitable for servicers, foreclosures will continue unabated. FHFA is on the right track by proposing to make changes to how it compensates its servicers. I'm looking forward to seeing their proposal and to working with them on making the mortgage servicing industry work for homeowners." ###
01.19.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) and 7 of her Congressional Black Caucus colleagues on the Financial Services Committee today called on Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to ensure that the Department provide for the inclusion of minorities, women, and minority- and women-owned businesses in its upcoming auction of U.S. Government stock in American International Group (AIG). The text of the letter follows: January 19, 2011 The Honorable Timothy Geithner Secretary U.S. Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner, According to recent news reports, the Treasury Department is in the beginning stages of preparing to auction the government's majority stake in American International Group (AIG), which intends to convert the Treasury's preferred shares into common stock. This stock represents a 92.1% stake in AIG and has an implied value of over $75 billion. In addition, according to these reports, Treasury intends to divide the shares into smaller groupings so it can be sold in several offerings. We hope that you take the steps necessary to ensure that in what might be the biggest stock sale in American history that minorities, women, and minority- and women-owned businesses are fairly and fully included at all stages of this process as it moves forward. A major undertaking of this nature demands the inclusion of a diverse group of investment and banking companies. Unfortunately, minority- and women-owned businesses are frequently excluded from participation in ventures of this size. The lack of inclusion of women and minorities is why we drafted Section 342 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-203), which calls for the establishment of Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at all of the government's financial services agencies, including the Treasury. One of the duties of the Directors of these Offices is to advise the agency administrator on the impacts of agency policies and programs on minority- and women-owned businesses. Furthermore, the law also calls for the Director to develop standards to increase the participation of minority- and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of the agency. While the law requires that the Offices be established by January 21, 2011, we would hope that the Department would not wait until this date to meet its obligations under the law. Given the size of this sale and the opportunity for a large number of banks and investment firms of all sizes to participate, we strongly urge you to comply with the letter and the spirit of Section 342 and provide for the inclusion of minority- and women-owned businesses in any potential offerings of stock for sale. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions. Sincerely, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) Rep. Mel Watt (D-NC) Rep. Gregory Meeks (D-NY) Rep. William Lacy Clay (D-MO) Rep. David Scott (D-GA) Rep. Al Green (D-TX) Rep. Gwen Moore (D-WI) Rep. André Carson (D-IN) ###
01.18.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after Ambassador Sargent Shriver passed away: "I am very saddened to learn of the passing of Ambassador Sargent Shriver, and I extend my condolences to his family and his friends, including his daughter, former California First Lady Maria Shriver. "Ambassador Shriver was well known for his humanitarian and diplomatic work, serving as the first director of the Peace Corps and later as the top U.S. envoy to France. I remember him most fondly, however, for his role as the director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, which designed and implemented the Head Start Program in the mid-1960s. I had the good fortune to become an associate teacher with the program, and I can unequivocally say that Head Start changed my life and turned it in a new direction. "Head Start encouraged me to finish my education; taught me the importance and value of community organizing; made me acutely aware of the many issues facing our young children; and inspired me to get involved in politics to make a difference in the lives of others, particularly the least of these. "So I want to thank Ambassador Shriver for his dedication to our country and his work to promote the educational and economic empowerment of people in the United States and around the world. May he rest in peace. "My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends during this difficult time." ###
01.18.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.) issued the following statement today after a student allegedly brought a gun to Gardena High School and shot two students when the backpack concealing the weapon was dropped: "I am just devastated to learn of the events today at Gardena High School. I am very thankful that the two students who were injured survived the initial shooting, and with limited information at this time I can only be hopeful they will make a full recovery, despite the brave young girl who remains in grave condition at the hospital tonight. I also want to thank the first responders and the faculty, staff, and students at Gardena for their quick response in isolating this incident and bringing it to a close. "Weighing heavy on my heart is a recent wave of violence throughout my district in South Los Angeles that has claimed the lives of many of my constituents like: five-year-old Aaron Shannon Jr., hit by a bullet in his own backyard while showing off his Spiderman Halloween costume to his family; Kashmier James, a young woman killed while visiting friends on Christmas day; 14-year-old Taburi Watson, shot while riding his bike a few days before New Year's; and Mr. Lewis Smith, who sadly was removed from life support last week after surviving the initial shooting, in some sad and tragic twist of fate, in a plaza named for Dr. Martin Luther King. Jr. "The debate over gun control has been brewing since the tragedy in Arizona almost two weeks ago that killed 6 people and left 14 injured, including my colleague, Congresswoman Gabby Giffords. One of the Congress' fiercest gun control advocates, Congresswoman Carolyn McCarthy, introduced simple and sensible legislation to ban the kind of magazine used in the shooting. I am proud to be a cosponsor of her legislation, even as I and my colleagues are being told by people both on and off the Hill that the legislation will go nowhere. "Let's all be clear about one thing though: guns don't belong in the hands of students. And they don't belong on any school property. Period. "I am eager to learn what steps LAUSD, the Cities of Gardena and Los Angeles, LAPD, the community, and all Los Angelinos will take to ensure that we remain united in our efforts to confront violence, keep our streets and our schools safe, and create economic and educational opportunities for all people. "I ask all Americans to keep these young students in their thoughts and prayers during the critical hours and days ahead." ###
01.18.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement today, upon learning that Haiti's former dictator, Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier, returned to Haiti after 25 years of exile in France: "The plot to control Haiti has gone from the absurd to the ridiculous. The return of Jean-Claude "Baby Doc" Duvalier to Haiti in the midst of a flawed election is truly shocking. The Duvalier dictatorship was absolutely brutal, and there is extensive documentation of the human rights violations suffered by the Haitian people during his reign. I was pleased to hear that the authorities had taken him into custody, and I urge that he be tried for his crimes. Nevertheless, Duvalier's return raises serious questions about who in Haiti facilitated his return and what his supporters expect to gain by bringing him back. Duvalier's return comes in the midst of a desperate attempt by President Rene Préval to maintain control of Haiti by ensuring the election of Jude Celestin, his chosen successor. President Préval did this by appointing a Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) that was biased in his favor, which refused to allow candidates from over a dozen political parties to participate in the elections. Among those excluded was Lavalas, Haiti's largest political party and the party most popular among Haiti's poor. The result was a deeply flawed election that generated widespread and sometimes violent protests among the Haitian people. Had the elections truly been inclusive, the most likely result would have been the election of a President who represented the impoverished majority of the Haitian people. This would have been contrary to the interests of the rich and powerful business elites of Haiti, whose main goal has always been the exploitation of the Haitian people as cheap labor. It is these wealthy Haitian elites who benefited under the reign of the Duvalier regime and who would no doubt benefit if he were to return to power. Additional confusion was created by the Organization of American States (OAS), which attempted to salvage these flawed elections by issuing a report based on flawed methodology. The OAS did not conduct a full recount, but instead examined a sample of only 919 of the 11,181 tally sheets from voting booths across Haiti, threw out 234 of these tally sheets, and then concluded that Michel "Sweet Micky" Martelly should advance to a runoff, along with Mirlande Manigat, in place of Jude Celestin. The OAS report concluded that Martelly defeated Celestin by a margin of only 0.3 percent of the votes reported on those tally sheets that the OAS chose to count. This would mean Préval's candidate, the candidate who is most likely to be trusted by the elites, would be eliminated. However, according to an analysis by the Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR), tally sheets were either missing or were discounted for irregularities at 1,326 voting booths or 11.9 percent of the total. The proportion of discounted votes and other irregularities is more than sufficient to cast doubt upon the entire process, especially when the difference between the number of votes counted for Celestin and Martelly is so small. The recommendation of the OAS to change the names of the candidates included in the runoff election is an ill-advised and sloppy attempt to fix an election that should be scrapped entirely. In any case, it is now clear that no runoff can be held this month as previously planned, and no successor will be elected prior to February 7th, the last day of President Préval's term in office under the constitution. Consequently, there is the possibility that Haiti could find itself with no President, thus creating a void and the opportunity for a dictator. I was shocked to learn that OAS officials discussed forcing President Préval to leave the country on board a plane – much the way that former President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was forced to leave the country in a coup d'état in 2004. Ricardo Seitanfus, the former OAS Special Representative to Haiti, recently revealed that at a meeting of United Nations, OAS and donor country officials, some representatives suggested that President Préval should leave the country and an airplane should be provided for that purpose. The OAS and other international agencies have no right to dictate the outcome of the election and no right to plot the exile of the current President of Haiti. Despite President Préval's role in these failed and fraudulent elections, the OAS cannot be a part of a plan to try to determine the outcome of the elections. It is absurd and outrageous that anyone would even think to take advantage of this situation to facilitate Baby Doc Duvalier's return to Haiti. Unfortunately, he has returned, and it is important to ask why. Who assisted Duvalier in his return? Where did he get the money to pay for his return? Were any officials of the U.S. Government aware of his plans to return? Was the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) aware? If so, was any action taken to stop him from returning or to ensure that he would be arrested and prosecuted for his crimes and not allowed to usurp power if he did return? I am deeply concerned that the wealthy elites of Haiti who supported the Duvalier regime in the past, along with the assistance of international agencies, may have encouraged Duvalier to return in the hope that the flawed elections will create a power vacuum that could allow him to take power once again. I am even more concerned that OAS officials may be wittingly or unwittingly helping to create precisely the type of power vacuum that would enable him to do so. It is important that we determine what role U.S. officials played, if any, in facilitating Duvalier's return. It is even more important that we determine what role the U.S. Government will play moving forward. The U.S. Government promised to help Haiti recover from last year's earthquake and develop its economy. I introduced legislation to forgive Haiti its foreign debt, and allow the country to secure additional aid in the form of grants so that it wouldn't incur further debt. I was very pleased that Congress passed the legislation in a bipartisan manner, and that President Obama signed it into law just three months after the earthquake. President Obama also requested and Congress appropriated almost $3 billion in funds for humanitarian assistance and long-term reconstruction and development for Haiti. Meanwhile, donor countries committed more than $9 billion in aid for Haiti's reconstruction at an international donors' conference last March. Haiti's next government will be called upon to make difficult decisions regarding the allocation of these resources. If these decisions are not made by a credible and legitimately-elected government, billions in U.S. taxpayer funds could be wasted and many donors may refuse to distribute the funds that were promised. Meanwhile, Haiti's recovery could be delayed for decades and the Haitian people will continue to suffer. I believe the only recourse is for Haiti to organize new elections that will be free and fair, inclusive of all eligible political parties and candidates, and open to participation by all Haitian voters. The U.S. Government should demand a clear statement to that effect by both the OAS and President Préval, and the U.S. should stand ready to assist Haiti in organizing new elections. Only through free, fair and inclusive elections will the people of Haiti be empowered to create a better future for themselves and their children." ### To view more of the Congresswoman's work on Haiti, click here.
01.14.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement today: "Today, we heard that banks seized a record 1.05 million homes in 2010, topping the prior record from 2009. This is despite a massive slowdown in foreclosures at the end of the year due to several major banks initiating voluntary moratoria as homeowner lawsuits, news reports and Congressional hearings – like the one I chaired on November 18 – created a groundswell of public pressure demanding reform. "Fortunately, the data released today indicates that California is healing faster than the rest of the nation, though our recovery is perilous, as continued unemployment and newly-resetting mortgage interest payments have the potential to create another wave of foreclosures. Low-income and minority communities continue to be the most vulnerable, with recent data from First American CoreLogic suggesting that the home repossession rate in the district I represent, CA-35, is about 50 percent higher than the national average. "During the 112th Congress, I will remain committed to fighting for homeowners, holding our regulators accountable and reforming our nation's mortgage servicing industry, which I believe fails to deliver loan modifications that can benefit homeowners, neighborhoods and mortgage investors alike. And I will continue to scrutinize the foreclosure practices of these major servicers, which increasingly appear to be both socially irresponsible and, perhaps, illegal." ###To read more about the Congresswoman's work on housing issues, click here.
01.12.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement today, marking the one year anniversary of the devastating earthquake in Haiti: "One year after a catastrophic 7.0 earthquake struck Haiti, the country is still devastated. A million displaced Haitians are still living in tent camps, mountains of rubble are piled in the streets, and billions in assistance pledged by the international community has yet to be delivered. Meanwhile, recent elections have been widely discredited and are unlikely to result in a government capable of leading recovery and development efforts. So it's with a heavy heart that I issue this statement today because I am very disappointed about the pace of both humanitarian relief and democratic recovery in Haiti, though I remain in awe of the strength and resiliency of the Haitian people. The massive earthquake that struck Haiti one year ago today killed 230,000 people, displaced an estimated 2 million people from their homes, and affected one third of the country's population. The main port, the presidential palace, the parliament, the majority of ministry buildings, more than 50 hospitals and health centers, 1300 educational institutions, and more than 105,000 homes were left in ruins. The earthquake, which came less than two years after a series of devastating hurricanes, left millions of people in the Western Hemisphere's poorest country living in absolutely horrific conditions. Immediately following the earthquake, there was an outpouring of sympathy from people in the United States and around the world. American families opened their hearts and contributed millions to non-profit organizations that were working around the clock to save lives. The United States Government provided emergency medical care and distributed food, water, and tents to the displaced, and world governments committed more than $9 billion in aid for reconstruction at a donors' conference in March, including more than $1 billion pledged by the United States. I myself got to work right away, visiting the country twice to secure critical supplies for survivors and view recovery and relief operations firsthand. I also introduced legislation to forgive Haiti its foreign debt, and allow the country to secure additional aid in the form of grants so that it wouldn't incur further debt. I was very pleased that Congress passed the legislation in a bipartisan manner, and that President Obama signed it into law just three months after the earthquake. One year later though, little if any of the money that was pledged has reached the people of Haiti. The United States Congress appropriated $2.9 billion for relief and reconstruction efforts, but the money was held up for months because the Obama Administration could not reach an agreement with Congressional appropriators on a plan for its use. According to the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), one million displaced people are still living in tent camps, and the conditions in many of these camps are appalling. There is still a critical need for food, clean water and sanitation facilities. A deadly outbreak of cholera that began along the Artibonite River in October has now spread throughout the country. According to USAID, cholera has already killed more than 3,400 people and infected more than 150,000 people. The international community was slow to respond to the crisis, and the effects of the epidemic have been exacerbated by the lack of sanitation infrastructure and the lack of access to potable water. Recovery efforts have also been hampered by a weak Haitian government. Ideally, the Presidential and parliamentary elections scheduled for November 28th would have resulted in a strong, credible government that would oversee recovery and reconstruction efforts. But these elections, as many of us feared, turned out to be deeply flawed. The credibility of the Haitian elections was in doubt long before they actually occurred. Haiti's Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) was widely viewed as biased in favor of current President Rene Préval. The CEP refused to allow candidates from over a dozen political parties to participate in the elections, including Lavalas, Haiti's largest political party. Meanwhile, thousands of displaced persons were disenfranchised either because they were unable to obtain new voter cards reflecting their new addresses or because there were no accessible polling places at the tent camps where they live. There were numerous reports of ballot-stuffing and other types of fraud on election day. Many voters were turned away from polling places throughout the country because they could not find their names on voter lists. Haitians began to protest the elections before the polls had even closed. During the day, twelve presidential candidates issued a statement urging that the elections be discontinued and the results invalidated because of widespread fraud. Some protests became violent in December when the CEP announced preliminary results, which designated two candidates for a runoff election but which did not match the results reported by official election observers. According to an analysis by the Center for Economic and Policy Research (CEPR), there were major problems with the conduct of the elections and the tallying of the votes. Tally sheets were either missing or were discounted for irregularities at 1,326 voting booths or 11.9 percent of the total. Furthermore, among the tally sheets that were not discounted, more than 5 percent had clerical errors, and 8.4 percent had irregularities that were sufficient to disqualify them. As a result of the missing, discounted and otherwise irregular tally sheets, more than 24 percent of the total votes either were not counted or should not have been counted. Prior to the elections, I advised Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in a letter signed by 44 of my colleagues, that the U.S. should not support elections in Haiti in the absence of assurances that they would be free and fair; open to participation by all eligible political parties; and accessible to voters displaced by the earthquake. It is now clear both inside and outside of Haiti that the November 28th elections did not meet these basic democratic standards. I call upon the Government of Haiti to set aside the flawed November 28th elections and organize new elections that will be free, fair and accessible to all Haitian voters. The fact that the CEP and the Government of Haiti have been unable to carry out the questionable runoff and have postponed it with no date set provides further support for my conviction that the whole election should be set aside. Haiti's next government will be called upon to make difficult decisions that will have a lasting impact on Haitian society, such as the allocation of resources for cholera treatment efforts and earthquake reconstruction projects. If these decisions are made by a government that is not perceived as legitimate, the recovery process could be impeded for years to come. Finally, I call upon the U.S. Government and other donor governments to keep their promises to the Haitian people. It is long past time to rebuild Haiti's infrastructure, remove the rubble from the streets, move people out of tents and into permanent housing, deliver the aid that has been promised, and respond to the cholera outbreak with the urgency it deserves." ### To view more of the Congresswoman's work on Haiti, click here.
01.11.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and several of her colleagues on the House Financial Services Committee – Reps. Brad Miller (D-NC), Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Stephen Lynch (D-MA) – have written to the director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency seeking information regarding FHFA's negotiated settlement with Bank of America and Ally Financial related to loans that did not comply with guidelines set forth by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The text of the letter follows: January 7, 2011 Mr. Edward DeMarco Acting Director Federal Housing Finance Agency 1700 G Street, NW Washington, D.C. 20552 Dear Mr. DeMarco: Over the course of several hearings of the House Committee on Financial Services during the 111th Congress, we were pleased by your testimony indicating that the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) would enforce lenders' representation and warranty obligations to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac (the Enterprises) by vigorously pursuing repurchase demands from institutions whose loans did not comply with the Enterprises' underwriting and eligibility guidelines. In fact, several Members of Congress were so concerned about this issue that they wrote a letter to the Administration asking President Obama to nominate a director for FHFA that would continue your work in pursuing repurchases where applicable. With that in mind, we are writing to request some clarity on whether the agreements announced on January 3, 2011 between the Enterprises and two counterparties – Ally Financial and Bank of America – represent the real liability the Enterprises bear as a result of the misrepresentations and breaches of warranty made by these institutions. Specifically, we request detailed information on how FHFA determined that the combined $3.3 billion settlement represented the best possible recovery of funds available to taxpayers. Additionally, we request clarity on how the subpoenas for Ally Financial were resolved and whether Ally provided loan level or collateral file data to FHFA, and, if so, how this information was used to arrive at the $462 million settlement figure. While we understand that many of the details in this settlement may include proprietary information, we believe that this is a matter of critical importance to the public interest and that transparency is therefore essential. As you know, the Enterprises have been under conservatorship since September 2008, and their ability to recover losses stemming from a lack of lender compliance with their guidelines directly affects taxpayers. Moreover, as other FHFA subpoenas related to potential misrepresentations or breaches of warranty are still outstanding, we believe that the agreements reached between the Enterprises and these counterparties may set an important precedent for other negotiations moving forward. We anticipate a response to this letter no later than January 24, 2010 and we look forward to your prompt response. We would be happy to discuss this request with you in more detail if necessary. ###
01.11.2011	"I was extremely devastated and shocked to learn of the tragic incident in Arizona earlier today that claimed the lives of at least six innocent people, including a United States federal judge, a Congressional staff member and a 9-year-old girl, and injured many others, including my colleague Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords. "We are rightfully proud of America's democracy in which citizens and their representatives can freely communicate and exchange ideas, even opposing opinions. Unfortunately, events like these have a chilling effect on our ability to engage in our civic duties without fear. We must all do whatever is necessary to restore safety and security. "My heart goes out to all who were impacted by this senseless tragedy, and I urge my constituents and all Americans to keep the victims and their families in your thoughts and prayers during this very sad day for our nation." ###
01.07.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) responded to today's ruling of the Massachusetts Supreme Court in the Ibanez case, in which the court ruled that US Bancorp and Wells Fargo did not have standing to foreclose on a borrower because they failed to follow proper legal procedure in the mortgage transfer and securitization process: "Today's ruling by the Massachusetts Supreme Court in the Ibanez case is a victory not only for homeowners, but also for fairness, due process and the rule of law. In its decision, the court upheld a judge's decision that two foreclosures were invalid because US Bancorp and Wells Fargo failed to prove that they followed the appropriate legal process documenting their ownership of the mortgages. As chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity over the past four years, I have consistently championed the rights of homeowners and led efforts to protect them from abusive practices by banks, mortgage servicers and other financial institutions. Most recently, during a November 18th subcommittee hearing, I called attention to the legal issues involved in the Ibanez case and cited the potential threat that improper foreclosures pose to our nation's economy as well as their harmful impact on individual homeowners. "Make no mistake: the failure to properly transfer loans through the appropriate legal "chain of title" is no technicality, but rather part of a long pattern of predatory and negligent behavior by Wall Street. We have long known that borrowers were sold exotic products with tricks and traps, and they were falsely promised that when interest rate spikes hit, they could refinance. The resulting subprime mortgage meltdown precipitated the foreclosure crisis which has devastated America's housing market and indeed our entire economy. Then we learned of the common practice of "robo-signing" foreclosure paperwork, with servicers rubberstamping thousands of foreclosures a week without so much as a cursory examination into the accuracy of the paperwork. Now we are seeing that the banks also neglected to follow the rules of the road when documenting ownership of these borrowers' mortgages and therefore the right to foreclose. This latest failure to follow the law not only creates uncertainty for mortgage investors but also produces some of the horror stories we've seen recently involving wrongful foreclosures. "The ruling today by the highest court in Massachusetts establishes important precedent to protect homeowners from wrongful foreclosures and requires banks to follow the law. I hope the influence of this ruling extends to other states. "During the new Congress, I will continue to advocate for servicing reform and in favor of the due process rights of homeowners. I also look forward to hearing the results of the ongoing interagency federal regulator investigation and the probe launched by all 50 state attorneys general, and will continue to demand that regulators hold banks accountable. ###
01.06.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement after Los Angeles County Sheriff Lee Baca asked for the assistance of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the case of Mitrice Richardson: "I am pleased that L.A. County Sheriff Lee Baca has requested the Federal Bureau of Investigation's (FBI) assistance and will send Mitrice Richardson's remains to the agency for further examination. Although the L.A. County coroner concluded that Mitrice's cause of death could not be determined, an independent review reveals disturbing information and offers chilling new insight into what may have occurred after Mitrice's disappearance. It is my hope that the FBI will help us learn the truth. "Ever since Mitrice disappeared, her mother, Latice Sutton, and a broad network of supporters have remained vigilant in their efforts to uncover the truth. Following the discovery of Mitrice's remains, many questions about the circumstances of her tragic death have not been answered. Over the past year, I have communicated to the Justice Department my concerns about the handling of this case by local authorities and indicated that federal involvement in the investigation was warranted. "While I commend Sheriff Baca for his cooperation, I am disappointed that Mitrice's family and the local community had to expend a great a deal of resources – organizing private searches and requesting an independent review – in order to compel the local authorities to investigate what appears to be a series of clearly negligent missteps in official procedures and protocols. "My thoughts and prayers remain with Mitrice's family and friends, who have all exhibited a remarkable amount of strength and fortitude. This case has exposed an utter failure in our justice system, and I am deeply concerned about the implication for other families who may not have the time or abundance of community support needed to mount an equally formidable public crusade as Mitrice's family was able to achieve. My constituents, and all Americans, deserve the equal protection and due diligence of their law enforcement authorities, and we must continue to hold our public officials accountable to their sworn duty to protect and to serve." ###
01.06.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement after President Obama named former Commerce Secretary William Daley as White House Chief of Staff: "I congratulate William Daley and wish him success in his new job as White House chief of staff. He was regarded as an effective and successful Secretary of Commerce during the Clinton Administration, helping usher in an era of job creation and prosperity for Americans. Most recently, he worked for almost seven years as a senior executive at JP Morgan Chase under CEO James "Jamie" Dimon. Like many leaders in the financial services industry, Mr. Daley opposed the establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which I vigorously supported as part of the historic Wall Street reform legislation Congress passed last year. I hope that in his new role Mr. Daley realizes the value of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and understands that Americans need this Bureau to protect them from unscrupulous lending practices and help keep them in their homes. I stand ready to work with President Obama and all of the Administration to work on behalf of America's homeowners and consumers, particularly those who continue to be impacted by the economic collapse wrought by predatory practices on Wall Street." ###
01.05.2011	Today, the first day of the 112th Congress, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement: "I am proud to represent the people of California's 35th District and honored by their overwhelming support for me as demonstrated by my re-election with almost 80% of the vote. I will continue to work hard on their behalf in the 112th Congress. Despite changes in the new Congress – including almost 100 new members of the House of Representatives and a Republican majority – I will have the same focus and be engaged in the same struggle for justice, equality and fairness for all Americans. Our highest priority must be creating jobs and strengthening the economy. I strongly believe, however, we cannot strengthen the economy until we correct the housing crisis. I will continue to work to assist homeowners faced with foreclosure and work to implement stronger regulations of our banking and financial institutions to avoid the loss of homeownership." ###
01.04.2011	Congresswoman Maxine Waters, a senior Democrat on the House Financial Services Committee, issued the following statement today after Bank of America settled with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for $2.8 billion over the misrepresentation of loans that the bank originally sold to the GSEs: "I'm concerned that the settlement between Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and Bank of America over misrepresentations in the mortgages BofA originated may amount to a backdoor bailout that props up the bank at the expense of taxpayers. Given the strong repurchase rights built into Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac's contracts with banks, and the recent court setback for Bank of America in similar litigation with a private insurer, I'm fearful that this settlement may have been both premature and a giveaway. The fact that Bank of America's stock surged after this deal was announced only serves to fuel my suspicion that this settlement was merely a slap on the wrist that sets a bad example for other negotiations in the future. I understand that the questions raised by fraudulent servicing practices were not addressed in these settlements, and I hope that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, along with their conservator, are more aggressive in pursuing banks for the fraud I documented in my Subcommittee during the last Congress." ###
12.21.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters issued the following statement today after the Federal Communications Commission's ruling on net neutrality regulations: "While I commend the FCC for approving network neutrality rules that prohibit broadband providers from blocking consumer access to legal web content, I am very concerned that the rules do not go far enough to honor the principles of net neutrality as previously articulated by this Administration and FCC. Although the new rules bar fixed broadband internet providers from "unreasonable discrimination" against web traffic, they exempt mobile broadband providers -- leaving millions without critical consumer protections and leading to a fractured Internet. At the beginning of the year, I wrote the FCC, supporting its efforts to establish sensible guidelines to ensure that the Internet remains an open and vibrant platform for creativity and innovation. Unfortunately, in the year since the Commission set an agenda to adopt net neutrality rules, confusion and misinformation have overshadowed the Commission's original intent. I am concerned that the rules adopted today are insufficient and harmful to many American consumers, reflecting immense pressure on the FCC from the telecommunications industry and Congressional Republicans, who by and large oppose any open Internet policies,. According to the Pew Internet and American Life Project's Mobile Access 2010 report, "minority Americans lead the way when it comes to mobile access—especially mobile access using handheld devices", and currently "two-thirds of African-Americans and [English-speaking] Latinos are wireless internet users." Another study from Pew and Nielsen indicates that many low wealth individuals and people of color use their cell phones as their only point of Internet access, including 18% of African Americans, 16% of English-speaking Latinos and 17% of people earning under $30,000 per year. The rules approved by the FCC would not protect these communities if a wireless broadband service provider decides to block any application or service that is not a voice/video communications service. In effect, consumers of color, who are more dependent on wireless broadband to access the Internet, would have less governmental protection than Americans who can afford both wired and wireless connections. Policies and decisions made now will influence significantly the future media landscape of our country. Therefore, I strongly urge the FCC to reconsider all the facts and make the Internet and other media services fair for everyone as it addresses not only net neutrality but also the impending merger of Comcast Corporation and NBC Universal." ###
12.20.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) wrote the following letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski today, which she asked to be included in the public record of the merger along with a congressional transcript and a report prepared by her office. In the letter, Congresswoman Waters urges the FCC to: ensure that Comcast and NBC file their memoranda of understanding as official amendments to their merger application; clearly define diversity and justify the approval of the merger using its own precedent regarding the public interest and diversity; recognize that Comcast and NBC have failed to present diversity commitments in conformity with FCC standards; and impose spectrum subleasing conditions to allow for new market entrants. The text of the letter follows: December 20, 2010 Julius Genachowski Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 Twelfth Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Re: Applications of Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company and NBC Universal, Inc. For Consent to Assign Licenses or Transfer Control of Licensees, MB Docket No. 10-56 Dear Chairman Genachowski, As a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives, I write with further inquiry into the proposed Comcast-NBCU acquisition, and the standards under which the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) determines whether a merger will serve the public interest. According to the Supreme Court and the Commission's precedent, factors considered to be in the public interest include, "a deeply rooted preference for preserving and enhancing competition; promoting a diversity of license holdings, and generally managing the spectrum in the public interest."(1) While Comcast Corporation and NBC Universal (NBCU) have filed a number of memoranda of understanding (MOU) and voluntary diversity commitments they have reached with the African American, Asian American, and Latino communities, many of the proposed conditions appear to be a series of vague goals and nominal gestures – lacking specificity and binding authority on the applicants. I am further alarmed by the fact that Comcast-NBCU has not filed any of these diversity pledges as official amendments to its application. Since the Commission has had difficulty enforcing diversity conditions in previous proceedings (most recently the order requiring Sirius XM channel set asides), I believe it would have been a reasonable good faith gesture for the companies to file these pledges as amendments, signaling their genuine intent that the Commission condition the merger's approval upon the merged entity's fulfillment of these voluntary commitments. Because Comcast-NBC negotiated these diversity pledges as stand-alone agreements, there is no real assurance that the merged entity will honor them. Although the civic organizations and community leaders who helped forge these agreements likely negotiated in good faith, absent further action by the Commission, I am afraid that these commitments will result in yet another set of broken promises between communities of color and large corporations. Even as these groups enter into new MOUs with Comcast-NBCU, earlier this month, the National Latino Media Council proclaimed that all of the networks (including NBC) "pretty well failed Latinos in their progress on diversity practices." It appears that NBC Universal has not made much progress since signing an earlier MOU(2) with the civil rights community in 2000, and we have nothing to indicate that these new MOUs will change what has been a steady decline in diversity among all the major broadcast networks. To that end, I remain very concerned about how the Comcast-NBCU merger will further erode the Commission's capacity to promote diverse, independent, and competing sources of information(2). Therefore, as a matter of guidance for the public and Members of Congress, I urge the Commission to clearly define ‘diversity' and the types of public interest conditions that promote "diversity of license holdings and broadcast viewpoints." If the Commission ultimately approves the Comcast-NBCU merger, it must be conditioned upon substantive and enforceable commitments that are in conformity with the agency's statutory standards and goals(4). Since the Comcast-NBCU merger was announced last year, I have participated in the Commission's public proceeding as well as several congressional committee hearings. I have repeatedly encouraged the companies to use this unprecedented merger as a vehicle to advance credible opportunities for minorities and women in media ownership, programming, management, and advertising. Yet, at every turn, the companies have sought to proceed through the regulatory review process without having to diverge too far from their contemplated post-merger plans. For example, upon being asked by Multichannel News how Comcast and NBCU felt about the public interests commitments and conditions they have presented in efforts to gain federal agency approval, two key executives from within the corporations (speaking under anonymity) replied: "It was easy for us to agree [to the commitments] because it was just a way for us to make them feel better about the transaction without us giving up anything in terms of our contemplated operation of the combined Comcast-NBCU." Indeed, as various stakeholders and civil rights organizations have taken an interest in the merger, Comcast and NBCU have made haphazard attempts to address their diversity concerns through memoranda of understanding and other diversity proposals. However, due to the FCC's lack of clarity on diversity, many participants within this proceeding have conflated media diversity with charitable giving and investments in new Comcast subsidiaries. While charitable gifts serve a critical social utility, they are not a proper gauge for whether a corporation is fulfilling its commitment to the public interest, as is statutorily required of FCC license-holders. In any case, many of the provisions within these proposals are unenforceable, and recent reports of Comcast's alleged anticompetitive business conduct do little to instill confidence in their intent to fulfill these diversity commitments as filed with the Commission. In fact, as Comcast-NBCU continues to laud its commitment to launch ten independent channels over eight years as a landmark concession (without going into detail about carriage and placement), the Commission continues to receive program access and carriage complaints from larger and more established networks and companies. I hardly believe Comcast will abruptly decide to negotiate in good faith with smaller and/or new independent channels, when networks such as the NFL Network, Wealth TV, and the Tennis Channel have had carriage complaints against the company. Moreover, while the companies continue to commit to "improve" diversity in executive management, when incoming NBCU Chief Operating Officer Stephen Burke announced the new executive leadership on November 18th, there were no minorities announced to oversee any of Comcast-NBCU's cable, motion picture, or Internet properties. Notwithstanding the announcement's impropriety, this could have been an opportunity for Comcast to signal to the African American, Asian American, and Latino communities its expressed commitment to promote qualified minorities to high-level executive and management positions. Of the 30 new executives (some pulled from the current NBCU team) announced in the Los Angeles Times article(5), there was only one African American listed (NBCU's current diversity officer will retain her position). Altogether, only four of the new Comcast-NBCU executives listed in the article are minorities. However, none of these individuals are on tap to lead the merged entity's massive cable, content, and programming operations. During the congressional hearings on the merger, many individuals from within the creative arts community have stressed the importance of having diversity in these executive positions as they have the potential to extend opportunities to a diverse pool of writers, directors, actors, producers, and programmers. While the regulatory agencies are not in place to micromanage corporate hiring practices, the FCC is charged with promulgating policies that promote diversity of broadcast viewpoints and responsible spectrum allocation. In this regard, it is within the Commission's jurisdiction to consider whether a company's current practices further or impede those goals in analyzing the potential harm the Comcast-NBCU merger may have on the public interest. It has long been a basic tenet of national communications policy that "the widest possible dissemination of information from diverse and antagonistic sources is essential to the welfare of the public(6). " Therefore, in addition to clarifying its definition of ‘diversity', I strongly urge the Commission and the Department of Justice (DOJ) to consider public interest proposals advanced by the FCC Advisory Committee on Diversity for Communications in the Digital Age as a framework for substantive and enforceable diversity conditions. For example, the S-License Proposal would promote greater media ownership diversity(7), furthering the Commission's goal to ensure efficient spectrum use and diversity in the media. This proposal would allow Comcast-NBCU to sublease or otherwise permit full-time or part-time use of portions of its multiplexed program feeds for the transmission of programming by unaffiliated entities which would be separately licensed by the Commission under its own share-time rule(8). In voluntarily committing to this proposal, Comcast-NBCU could narrowly tailor the program to new market entrants, serving local multicultural and multilingual audiences, or simply limit the program to socially and economically disadvantaged businesses(9). This proposal would afford diverse entrepreneurs the opportunity to enter the market in a way that closely resembles traditional broadcast ownership, and it is more substantive than Comcast-NBCU's current commitments to employ minorities in subordinate positions and create additional Comcast subsidiaries. I commend the Justice Department and the FCC for its extensive review and ask that you take the necessary amount of time to consider the voluminous record of unprecedented public and congressional participation. I also recommend that the Commission encourage the applicants to file the MOUs they have reached with civic and professional organizations as amendments to their application. If the Commission and DOJ approve this merger, the public will heavily rely on your conditioning this acquisition upon substantive conditions that mitigate the potential harm many believe this merger will cause to our nation's media landscape. I look forward to your responses to the questions outlined above and urge you to closely examine the very serious public interest concerns that I and other Members of Congress have raised in previous correspondence. I respectfully request that you include this letter in the record, as well as the attached transcripts from the congressional hearings on the Comcast-NBCU merger and a report prepared by my office on the companies' cable and content properties. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress cc: Commissioner Michael J. Copps Commissioner Robert M. McDowell Commissioner Mignon Clyburn Commissioner Meredith Attwell Baker --- 1. FCC v. RCA Communications, Inc., 346 US 86, 90 (1953) 2. Television Networks Fail Latinos in Diversity, Hispanically Speaking News, December 3, 2010 (https://www.hispanicallyspeakingnews.com/notitas-de-noticias/details/television-network-fail-latinos-in-diversity/3316/). In 1999 - 2000, the Multi-Ethnic Media Coalition, a group comprised of the National Latino Media Council, the National Asian/Pacific American Media Coalition, the NAACP and the American Indians in Film and Television, signed Memoranda of Understanding with the four major television networks, ABC, CBS, FOX and NBC. 3. See In the Matter of Section 257 Proceeding to Identify and Eliminate Market Entry Barriers for Small Business, Report (https://www.fcc.gov/Bureaus/OCBO/fcc00279.html). The FCC has said that it is committed "to implement the spirit and mandate of Section 257 of the Communications Act to promote policies ‘favoring diversity of media voices, vigorous economic competition, technological advancement, and promotion of the public interest, convenience, and necessity." 4. See, e.g., Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U.S. 622, 663 (1994) quoting United States v. Midwest Video Corp., 406 U.S. 649, 668 n.27 (1972). Specifically, under the Public Interest Test, the FCC considers whether the transaction is consistent with the Commission's policies to advance diversity. It has long been a basic tenet of national communications policy that "the widest possible dissemination of information from diverse and antagonistic sources is essential to the welfare of the public." 5. Meg James, Comcast Unveils Management Team for NBC Universal, Los Angeles Times (2010). 6. See, e.g., Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. v. FCC, 512 U.S. 622, 663 (1994) quoting United States v. Midwest Video Corp., 406 U.S. 649, 668 n.27 (1972). 7. Section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934 reflects the directive of Congress that the FCC further opportunities in the auction of licenses to provide spectrum-based services for small businesses and businesses owned by women and minorities. 8. 47 C.F.R. §73.1715 9. Section 257 of the Communications Act of 1934 (added as part of the Telecommunications Act of 1996) mandates that the FCC identify and eliminate market entry barriers for small telecommunications businesses. ###
12.17.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, took to the House floor this morning in support of H.R. 5510, the "Aiding Those Facing Foreclosure Act of 2010," which would allow states to use their Hardest Hit Funds to provide legal assistance for homeowners facing foreclosure. In her impassioned speech, Congresswoman Waters said, "It is unthinkable that we could have used TARP funds for every major corporation, all of the banks, all of the ‘too big to fail', and yet we would deny homeowners in the hardest-hit states some assistance…This whole industry has failed us, and we're allowing homeowners to swim out there, alone, by themselves, with no help. Let's help the American people; it's the least we can do as we close out this 111th Congress. We can not only send this message…we can stand up and demand that they get the kind of help that will keep them and their families in their homes." On November 18, 2010, Chairwoman Waters held a hearing that explored some of the corner-cutting practices of servicers and highlighted the need for borrowers threatened by foreclosure to have legal representation. Watch the 2-minute video of her support for HR 5510 here. ###
12.14.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement upon the passing of Ambassador Richard C. Holbrooke, who died yesterday at age 69: "Ambassador Williams and I are very saddened to learn that of our friend, Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, is no longer with us. We first had the opportunity to meet Ambassador Holbrooke during diplomatic training in 1993. Sidney and Richard had recently been appointed by President Bill Clinton to serve as the Ambassadors to the Bahamas and Germany, respectively. As is required of the spouse of an incoming Ambassador, I also went through training to understand certain diplomatic protocol and procedure. I have fond memories of that time, and I remember Richard as an extremely bright, articulate, and worldly man. He had an imposing presence, a keen intellect and a sharp wit, which had clearly served him well in the decades he trotted the globe making peace, shaping policy, and advancing our interests abroad. Shortly after we met, he was dispatched to serve as the key negotiator to the 1995 Dayton peace accords, which ended the Bosnian War. I remember thinking that they couldn't find someone with more expertise or wherewithal to undertake such a complex and important task. Whether in Vietnam or Afghanistan, the Johnson Administration or the Obama Administration, a dais at the United Nations or the theater of war, Richard served our country and the international community with grace, with strength, and with distinction. Our diplomatic community, indeed, our country, has lost a tried and true public servant. During this difficult time, I take some comfort in knowing that the world is a better place because of Ambassador Richard Holbrooke, and I hope anyone who knew him will do the same. My husband and I extend our deepest sympathies, our thoughts and our prayers to his wife, his children, his family and his many friends and colleagues." ###
12.09.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) delivered the following speech on the House floor today, where she announced that she would not pursue a vote on her privileged resolution at this time, and instead asked the Ethics Committee to publicly address the many concerns that are being raised about the disciplining of two Committee attorneys leading the case against her: "On Tuesday, I introduced a privileged resolution that calls for a bipartisan task force to investigate the disciplinary action taken against two professional staff members of the Ethics Committee. Since then, I have had a chance to speak with dozens of Members regarding concerns about the ethics process and the impact it has on this institution. Regardless of region or political ideology, they all agreed that we must take every opportunity we can to improve the ethics process and, by extension, increase the faith of the American people in our ability to uphold the highest standards of ethical conduct. We now have one such opportunity. There have been press reports of misconduct by the Committee attorneys responsible for handling my case, which has been with the Committee for almost one-and-a-half years. Although we do not know the circumstances surrounding their conduct, nor the disciplinary action taken against them, we can all agree, as Majority Leader Hoyer stated last week, that the developments are "troubling." To be sure, this issue is of great concern to me. However, after talking to Members, I have confirmed that it is also of great concern to you -- my colleagues and friends -- because the issue of transparency and fairness in the ethics process is one that transcends any individual. What is at stake is the integrity of this institution that we all cherish and of which we are privileged to be a part. If information regarding this matter is not made public, we will continue to see press reports and commentators across the political spectrum publicly criticizing the ethics process: --"You have ethics issues in [the] Ethics Committee…These two attorneys are left on the government payroll; we still don't even know why they dismissed them." ("The Willis Report", Fox Business, 12/1/10) --"Can you imagine, in a court of law, if the prosecutor basically got completely taken off of the case, and suddenly the defense lawyer walked in and there was somebody new? It's like, bells and whistles would go off." ("AC 360", CNN, 12/1/10) --"…I am confident some of the folks on the committee are more political than anything else." (Melanie Sloan of CREW, quoted in Talking Points Memo, 12/1/10) --"Rarely has the ethics process looked worse." (Dana Milbank, Washington Post, 12/4/10) Unfortunately, if a resolution like the one I noticed passed, its authority, like the authority of the investigation against me, would expire at the end of this Congress – which could come as early as next week. The investigation and report called for by the resolution would have to be completed immediately, which apparently is not feasible now given the calendar. Many colleagues who share the concerns I have raised about the disciplinary action of the Committee are also concerned that a taskforce established now would have insufficient time to finish its work. I share that concern and have been working with them over the last few days to find an alternative that would allow for the exploration of this important topic without further undermining the process by not allowing for adequate time and resources. Because news about the Committee's activities just came to light last week, the options seem to be limited. We all know how a vote on a privileged resolution plays out. The leadership, for reasons which are both practical and political, would use a parliamentary procedure, either a motion to table or a motion to refer, to essentially kill the bill. This maneuver is not unique to this resolution. It is, as history shows us, seemingly standard practice. Functionally, that would be the end of this particular resolution, and it could have the unintended consequence of suggesting falsely to the public that the House as a whole is not concerned with the integrity of the ethics process. In fact, during those conversations with colleagues, Members have come alive, and the basic concepts of justice and fairness have permeated every conversation. They have suggested that this issue is one that should be explored willingly, not just by the force of a vote by the whole House, and that parliamentary procedure should not thwart transparency. Let me note that while they expressed concern with some of the events that have occurred as related to my case and the implications for the broader institution, Members also indicated they believe that our colleagues who lead the Ethics Committee, Zoe Lofgren and Jo Bonner, fundamentally share our commitment to justice and fairness, despite the circumstances which have led us here today. This is a view that I share as well. Although the Committee is built on secrecy and confidentiality, it should have the ability to be flexible and provide transparency in extraordinary circumstances. This is one such extraordinary circumstance when the House as a whole and the public need the Committee to reveal information so we can have confidence in the process. Those who know me, know I am aggressive by nature and philosophy. I believe that it is important that we be relentless about our constant search for truth and justice. But here, upon the advice of my colleagues whom I trust and admire, I am not pushing for a vote on this resolution today. In doing so, however, I am requesting that the Committee set the record straight, on its own accord, in a bipartisan manner, with a joint statement signed by the Chair and Ranking Member, as provided by its rules – which both protects the confidentiality required by the Committee and respects the public's and this body's right to know circumstances of the events that led to the discipline of the two attorneys leading the case against me. Today, I will again notice the House with my privileged resolution. I'm hopeful that it will not be necessary to take it up because the Ethics Committee will indeed set the record straight. ###
12.07.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) offered the attached privileged resolution in the House today, "Authorizing and directing the Speaker to appoint a bipartisan task force to investigate the circumstances and cause of the decision to place professional staff of the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct (Ethics Committee) on indefinite administrative leave, and for other purposes." The House must take up the Congresswoman's resolution within the next two days. Watch of video of the Congresswoman reading the resolution by clicking here. ###
12.01.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement after learning that the House Ethics Committee has placed Cindy Morgan Kim – the Committee's deputy chief counsel and its lead attorney on the case involving Congresswoman Waters – and Stacy Sovereign, a Committee attorney who assisted on the case, on administrative leave: "On Monday morning, the day my ethics hearing was supposed to take place, I reiterated my disappointment that the Ethics Committee canceled the hearing. Furthermore, I referred to the explanation that the Committee offered for delaying the hearing as ‘nothing more than an excuse', and I called on the Committee to ‘schedule my hearing before the end of the session or tell me, my constituents, and the American public the real reason for this delay'. It appears that we now know the real reason for the delay: Something has gone wrong in the ethics process. Although the Committee itself has neither informed me directly, nor commented publicly, news reports have revealed that the attorneys leading the Committee's efforts to build a case against me have been removed from the case. In fact, they were placed on administrative leave on November 19th, the very same day that the Committee announced the hearing scheduled for November 29th was cancelled. It seems their conduct was so egregious, that the Committee's chief counsel wanted them fired. The Committee should communicate the reasons for this disciplinary action. Important questions must be answered. Did the Committee's attorneys withhold exculpatory evidence? Leak documents or speak to the press without authorization? Engage in partisan activity? Mislead Members of Congress? Was the disciplinary action justified? What impact does this have on my case? We don't know the specifics, but we know that the integrity of the Committee and its investigative process have been compromised. The longer the Committee withholds the details of its actions, the more the public's confidence in the House ethics process is eroded. From the beginning, I have been concerned with the Committee's unsupported conclusions, often contradictory arguments, and unfounded negative inferences. It now seems that these concerns were justified, as the Committee's sanctioning of its own attorneys is an acknowledgement of flaws and failures in the Committee's processes and handling of my case. The Committee must reveal immediately the circumstances that prompted its action. Transparency is of the utmost importance at this critical moment. As I have consistently maintained during the entire course of this investigation, there was no benefit, no improper action, no failure to disclose, no one influenced, and for these reasons, there is no case." ###
12.01.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional leader in the fight to reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS in the United States and around the world through increased education, screening, research, treatment, and funding, released the following statement today in recognition of World AIDS Day: "World AIDS Day is a time to remember the people who have been tragically lost to the disease – over 25 million worldwide since it was first identified almost 30 years ago. But it is also a time to recognize that new infection rates are decreasing while those living with HIV or AIDS – some 33 million people around the world – are living longer, productive lives. I am heartened by some of the news we are hearing from the medical and research communities: a vaginal gel for women decreased the spread of infection by 40 percent in one study; in another study, a pill cocktail for men who engage in sex with other men saw a 44 percent decrease in the spread of the infection – and an even higher 73 percent for men who took the prescribed dosage. Despite our progress and these promising new developments, we know that we have a long way to go both at home and abroad. More than 62,000 people are living with HIV or AIDS in Los Angeles County, 39% of whom are Latino Americans and 22% of whom are African Americans. The HIV/AIDS rate here in our nation's capital rivals that of some African countries, where the disease is most prevalent. Globally, almost 1,000 children a day contract HIV from their mothers during birth; and almost 17 million children around the world are AIDS orphans. I am very encouraged by the resolve with which our nation has tackled the disease head on: the President has asked for a record amount of funding for the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) in FY 2011, and the National AIDS Strategy adopted by the Obama Administration earlier this year is something I have long called for: a comprehensive strategy to deal with this problem at home. As I said upon its release, it must be fully funded to implement its lofty goals. I also look forward to our country hosting the International AIDS Conference in 2012 – made possible by the 2009 lifting of an ill-advised, twenty-year-old policy that prevented people who were HIV positive from traveling to the United States. I pledge to continue my efforts in Congress to help reduce the spread of HIV/AIDS, especially among communities of color. In the waning days of the 111th Congress, I again call on the Senate Judiciary Committee to immediately pass my legislation which would require the Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in federal prisons, and send it to the full Senate for a vote. HR 1429, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, has already passed the House of Representatives. While we continue to focus on prevention, we also must make sure those who are already infected are able to access life-prolonging treatment. I am deeply concerned about the growing numbers of infected Americans who are on waiting lists for the AIDS Drug Assistance Program (ADAP), and I call on my colleagues in Congress to increase funding for this life-saving program. Prevention and treatment go hand-in-hand." ###Congresswoman Waters and 29 of her colleagues wrote to Senate leaders asking for HR 1429 to pass the Committee and head to the floor for a full vote. In addition to HR 1429, Congresswoman Waters has also introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137) to require health insurance companies to cover routine HIV tests, and urged the Appropriations Committee to increase funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was originally developed by the Congresswoman over ten years ago when she served as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus. After initially receiving $156 million in funding, today the Initiative is funded with over $400 million. For FY 2011, Congresswoman Waters and 56 of her colleagues requested $610 million in funding.
11.30.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent the following letter to Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski today, raising more questions about the Comcast-NBC merger after several allegations criticizing Comcast's cable and online operations recently surfaced: November 30, 2010 Julius Genachowski Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 Twelfth Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Genachowski, As a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary, I write to once again convey my ongoing concerns about the impact the Comcast-NBC merger could have on consumers and competition within the already heavily-consolidated media industry. If Cablevision's recent retransmission dispute with News Corporation (News Corp.) over the fees it pays the media conglomerate were not compelling enough, then three recent direct allegations against Comcast Corporation's online and cable operations should warrant the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) close examination. Although the Commission's 180-day merger review deadline passed on November 25th, I urge the FCC to carefully review these new allegations, along with the voluminous record of the current merger proceeding, and ensure that if the Comcast-NBC combination is approved, it is conditioned upon substantive commitments that will promote media diversity, competition, and consumer protections. First, the New York Times reported this week that Comcast Corporation – which has its own on-demand content streaming and pay-per-view movie services – imposed a recurring fee on Level 3 Communications (the backend service provider that streams Netflix movies to online consumers) in exchange for allowing the company to continue streaming Netflix content to consumers without service disruption. Comcast reportedly threatened to cut its customers' access to Netflix unless Level 3 pays a new fee for the transmission. In efforts to justify the action, the company contends that Netflix consumes a significant amount of its online traffic and should be assessed higher fees than a low-bandwidth online site. This was undoubtedly one of the principle reasons behind their decision to block online peer-to-peer file sharing site BitTorrent – an action the company denied before the Commission discovered Comcast had indeed limited Internet users' access to the website. While Comcast's argument has some merit – sites such as Google's YouTube and Netflix consume more network traffic than a "MomAndPop.com" – the implications and dynamics change once the colossal cable operator and Internet Service Provider (ISP) in question stands to gain ownership over all of NBC Universal's online, cable, and motion picture properties. The FCC should also consider this recent development in light of Comcast's launch of "XFinity" this year – the corporation's own movie streaming service. There are currently no regulatory standards in place that could prevent Comcast from driving out competing online services in order to offer its own content streaming site with a new full catalog of Universal Pictures, Focus Features films, NBCU cable shows (NBC, Bravo, SyFy, and Style), and other online content offered through Hulu. Comcast Corporation has 23 million cable customers and provides Internet service to 15 million Americans. In this context, Netflix was compelled to pay the fee so that its customers would avoid service interruptions. Ironically, this illustration parallels the recent dispute between Cablevision and Newscorp. In the same way that cable customers lose service when cable operators are unable to reach an agreement with broadcasters, online customers lose access to broadband service (or the quality of that service) when ISPs and online content providers fail to reach a contractual agreement. In my estimation, each of these disputes hinge on market leverage and dominance. The stakes favor the company that can exert greater pressure, and Comcast stands to gain an unprecedented amount of market power under the proposed merger. In any case, the customer is held hostage, and if Comcast gains control of NBC Universal, we do not fully understand the potential impact the merged entity will have on the market. However, we do know that cable prices will continue to increase and customers will continue to suffer periodic service disruptions (such as the unprecedented Comcast Internet service outage that impacted millions of customers along the eastern United States on November 29th) and blackouts caused by corporate retransmission disputes. Secondly, the Commission must also consider the Tennis Channel's very serious allegations that Comcast provides its own networks and content with preferential treatment. The Tennis Channel claims that Comcast favors its own similarly situated networks, such as Versus Network and the Golf Channel, by placing them on more widely-viewed tiers. The complaint stems from Comcast's decision to keep the Tennis Channel on a premium sports tier rather than a more broadly distributed programming tier. In the same manner that public interest groups have raised concerns that the company could discriminate against competing online services through predatory pricing schemes, competing cable networks may also suffer under similar anticompetitive practices. Since the two companies were unable to reach an agreement in mediation, the claims will now be heard before one of the Commission's judges. Lastly, on November 29th, modem manufacturer Zoom Telephonics filed a complaint at the Commission against Comcast. The complaint outlines a string of facts alleging that the cable operator is restricting consumer access to innovative devices by controlling the approval process for cable modems. Similar to the Tennis Channel complaint, this allegation reflects a pattern and practice of anticompetitive business practices. While the FCC has yet to announce the hearing date for the Tennis Channel's complaint, and we do not know whether Zoom's complaint will be heard before an FCC judge, I do not believe the Comcast-NBC merger should be approved before the facts and details of both allegations are fully disclosed to the public. I do hope you and the Department of Justice (DOJ) will consider the very serious public interest concerns outlined above while conducting your Comcast-NBC merger review. If you have any further questions, please don't hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
11.29.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) delivered the following statement outside the House Administration Committee room today, where her ethics hearing originally scheduled for today was supposed to take place. "Good morning and thank you for being here. As you know, my hearing was scheduled for this morning at 9am, and I am here because I am, as I have always been, eager for my opportunity to have my day before the adjudicatory subcommittee. I am disappointed that the committee has chosen not to hold my hearing. Since it has been canceled, I, like you, am looking for answers. Ten days ago, the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct canceled the hearing that was scheduled for today and has not given me any indication on where or when the hearing will be rescheduled. The reason that was given by the committee, the discovery of so-called new evidence, is unacceptable and defies common logic. In fact, to call it a ‘reason' is being too kind; it was nothing more than an excuse. The truth is, the detailed and continuous analysis of committee rules and precedent, and the plain facts of this case established by me and my legal team, reveal only one thing: no benefit, no improper action, no failure to disclose, no one influenced, no case. I have been denied basic due process. The Office of Congressional Ethics referred their investigation to the Ethics Committee in August 2009 – almost one and a half years ago. In October 2009, the Ethics Committee voted to empanel a subcommittee. The Statement of Alleged Violation adopted by the subcommittee was transmitted to the full committee on June 15, more than five months ago. The committee made the SAV public on August 2nd, 17 weeks ago. The committee announced the hearing on October 7th, 53 days ago. And then suddenly, 10 days ago, with no notice, and no real reason, they canceled it. All of this is to say that the Ethics Committee had ample time to prepare their case against me. As I stated just 10 days ago, I believe this cancelation demonstrates in no uncertain terms the weakness of their case against me. I had consistently called on the committee to schedule the hearing before the November elections and that request went unanswered. Ironically, the Republican Members of the committee shared my view, so much so that they were willing to break their own rules in order to share their frustration. Now they have seemed to reverse their course, and joined with the other members of the committee to delay the hearing. Despite these setbacks, my legal team and I have acted in an open, transparent and accountable manner at every step along the way. We have participated fully in the Committee process, including the timely filing of motions -- some of which went unanswered -- and the exchange of documents. We are fully prepared for this hearing. Despite this, the committee has again denied me my opportunity to be heard. This type of behavior, lack of decency and professional decorum would not be accepted in a court of law, and it should not be accepted in the United States House of Representatives, the body responsible for making the laws. So my message to the committee is simple: schedule my hearing before the end of the session or tell me, my constituents, and the American public the real reason for this delay. There is no legal, rules-based or common sense reason to delay this hearing any longer. I want this issue resolved immediately, and I want my constituents to know that the person they re-elected with 80 percent of the vote on November 2nd is doing exactly what they sent her here to do: fight for them." ###
11.19.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, released the following statement in response to the announcement today by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) issuing a final rule to protect distressed homeowners from mortgage relief scams. "I commend the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) for taking action to protect struggling homeowners from loan modification and foreclosure rescue scammers through the issuance of its final Mortgage Assistance Relief Services (MARS) rule. Throughout America, homeowners continue to struggle with making their monthly mortgage payments. Yet sadly, foreclosure rescue and loan modification scammers are preying on these homeowners, deceiving them into paying thousands of dollars upfront for little or no services. The MARS rule will prohibit foreclosure rescue and loan modification services from collecting fees upfront unless the homeowner receives a written loan modification offer from the lender or servicer that they decide to accept. "Today's rule comes as a victory at the end of a long battle by both federal regulators and Congress to expose these predatory actors and take action to protect homeowners. Last year, I held a hearing in my Subcommittee to look at the emerging issue of foreclosure rescue fraud. As a result of that hearing and my work with defrauded homeowners, I included provisions in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act to give the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau jurisdiction over these scammers and to prohibit lawyers from engaging in deceptive foreclosure fraud rescue scams. This rule will provide much needed protections for homeowners until the CFPB is created. Protecting struggling homeowners has long been a priority for me and I look forward to continuing to work with the FTC and the CFPB to keep American homeowners safe from predatory actors in the real estate market." ###
11.19.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement in response to the announcement today by the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct that it has cancelled the adjudicatory hearing the Committee had scheduled for Monday, November 29th: "I am disappointed that the Committee is once again postponing my hearing and showing a complete disregard for due process and fairness. For over a year, I have cooperated with the investigation and I have consistently asked for a public hearing on this matter. I remain eager to present my case and demonstrate to my constituents and all Americans that I have not violated any House rules. In October, after a lengthy delay, the Committee finally set a date for the hearing and explained that its purpose would be ‘to determine whether any counts in the Statement of Alleged Violation… have been proven by clear and convincing evidence.' The Committee's decision to cancel the hearing and put it off indefinitely demonstrates that the Committee does not have a strong case and would not be able to prove any violation has occurred. The Committee is suggesting it needs more time to review newly discovered evidence that it claims may be material to its case. In fact, the Committee has had this ‘new' document since October 29th, and it does not provide any new significant information. In fact, the document shows that my office was working to ensure that Emergency Economic Stabilization Act assisted small and minority institutions. The document does not reflect any action on behalf of any specific company. Although the Committee continues to insist that the ‘small bank language' was drafted to benefit only one institution, the facts do not support that assertion; in fact, the documentary record directly contradicts it. As the highest ranking African-American and woman on the Financial Services Committee, my staff and I did what we said we did and what we have always done, which is provide a voice in the process for those who lack it. Furthermore, since the fundamental purpose of a hearing is to evaluate evidence, I am puzzled at the Committee's insistence on moving backwards instead of forwards. After beginning its investigation more than a year ago, working to prepare a case for months and realizing it cannot prove wrongdoing, they have resorted to a delay. If this evidence is so damning, the Committee should present its case before the public, as we asked them to do when I first learned of their desire to postpone the hearing. Apparently the Committee now recognizes, as I have maintained, that there was no benefit, no improper action, no failure to disclose, no one influenced, and there is no case. Before the elections, the Republican Members of the Committee felt so strongly about holding the hearing that they were willing to break Committee rules to share their convictions. Their vote to delay this hearing is contradictory to their public pronouncements. Yet now once again, the Committee is dragging this matter on and denying my constituents the opportunity to hear my case. Furthermore, the Committee appears to be once again violating its own rules, namely committee rule 20(a) which indicates that a Statement of Alleged Violation can only be amended BEFORE transmittal to the adjudicatory subcommittee. There is no provision or authority for the Committee to take this action, but the same body which is charged with interpreting the rules now seems to be guilty of making them up as it goes along. Neither the letter sent to me nor the statement on the Committee website cites any rule or clear rationale for this decision. The credibility of the House is reflected not only by Members accused of improper action, but also is reflected by the Members who sit in judgment. The public expects those who judge to hold themselves to their own rules. Today, the Committee has brought discredit upon itself and this institution by denying me, and more importantly my constituents, the right to set the record straight." ###
11.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, issued the following statement today after the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the State of Mississippi and the Mississippi Center for Justice announced a $132 million housing program to assist homeowners and renters in the Mississippi Gulf region who were devastated by Hurricane Katrina. Under the program, the state will direct $92 million in Community Development Block Grant money to low- and moderate-income residents in South Mississippi who are still trying to repair or reconstruct homes damaged during the storm. An additional $40 million will go to unmet Katrina-related housing needs of low-income residents in nine Mississippi counties. The funding will allow applicants to receive up to $75,000 for repairs and reconstruction. Congresswoman Waters had raised concerns and held a hearing after the state attempted to divert federal resources originally designated for housing assistance to expand the Port of Gulfport instead. A lawsuit filed by groups who opposed this misappropriation of HUD money will now be dropped. The Congresswoman's statement follows: "I am pleased with today's announcement of the settlement between the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the State of Mississippi, and local housing advocates to address the unmet housing needs of low-income families struggling to rebuild after Hurricane Katrina. Like many housing advocates I was shocked that the State of Mississippi not only failed to address the housing needs of low-income homeowners and renters after Hurricane Katrina, but also proposed to use unspent housing dollars on the expansion of the Port of Gulfport. I held a hearing on this issue, wrote to HUD and Governor Barbour in opposition, and implored our appropriators to withhold funding for the Port until the State met the housing needs of low-income homeowners and renters. Five years after Katrina, this settlement will finally provide for those unmet housing needs. Only now, after knowing that the housing assistance will be funded and provided, can I support expansion of the Port moving forward. I commend HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan, Assistant Secretary Mercedes Marquez, and Governor Haley Barbour for working to address this injustice. I especially commend Reilly Morse of the Mississippi Center for Justice for his tireless advocacy on this issue." ###
11.12.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters' (D-CA) advocacy on health care issues, and her willingness to challenge the health insurance companies, started over thirty years ago. In 1978, as a young California Assemblywoman – she was first elected in 1976 – Waters fought insurance companies when she introduced AB 3548, legislation requiring insurance companies to cover reconstructive surgery or prosthetic devices for women who have undergone mastectomies. Waters explains, "A mastectomy is a very serious procedure of course. It can be frightening for many women, and even as they cope with fears about surviving cancer, they are left with physical scars from having a breast removed and also frequently suffer emotionally from this change in their body, their appearance, their confidence and even their sense of self. These issues continue to be significant today – although society has made a lot of progress and women and their families now have many more resources and information and support than in the 1970s – but I believe it was even more difficult back then." She was prompted to introduce AB 3548 when she learned from breast cancer patients and survivors, including the wife of a legislator, that some health insurance plans covered mastectomies but wouldn't cover this critical part of post-surgery transition, acceptance, and healing. "The insurance companies classified reconstructive surgery or a prosthetic device following mastectomy as ‘cosmetic' and ‘elective' and therefore they would not pay for it. Remember this was more than thirty years ago, so we had to educate a lot of people, including members of the State Assembly and State Senate, about this issue. Of course most of them were men, and they were not so comfortable discussing it. But we worked hard to gain support and were able to pass the legislation and make the insurance companies do the right thing. I thought if we could change the law, we would help a lot of women in California, and given the state's size and influence probably get the insurance companies to change their policies in other states too. At the very least, I thought it would give women recovering from the mastectomy procedure some peace of mind," she remembers. Waters' legislation passed both chambers of the California Legislature and was signed into law on September 28, 1978. "The governor who signed it into law then was Jerry Brown," Waters notes. "He has always paid attention to women's issues and provided progressive leadership," she says of Brown, who was then the youngest governor in California history and this month has been elected to serve as governor again. Waters has been recognized as a champion for women's health by various groups, most recently at the annual luncheon of the Persian American Cancer Institute (PACI) in Los Angeles last weekend. Hoori Sadler, a PACI leader presented an award at the group's Salute to Life event to Congresswoman Waters in recognition of her work to help cancer survivors. Ms. Sadler is a breast cancer survivor who also serves on the board of the Umma Clinic in South Central Los Angeles, a lifeline for thousands of people from all walks of life. She pointed out that AB 3548 has helped thousands of women over the past thirty years, and she also emphasized that Congresswoman Waters continues to serve as an effective advocate on breast cancer and other women's health issues. For example, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Cancer Testing, Education, Screening and Treatment Act, known as the Cancer TEST Act (H.R. 1030), in the last Congress to promote cancer screening. H.R. 1030 would: • Provide grants for cancer screening, counseling, treatment and prevention programs for minorities and underserved communities; • And would emphasize early detection and provide comprehensive treatment for cancer in its earliest stages, when treatment is most likely to save lives. The bill had 34 cosponsors but did not make it out of committee. However, Congresswoman Waters pledges to continue to be a strong advocate for early detection and treatment of cancer, and increased education and funding. "We need increased activism, lobbying of elected officials, research, education, and of course funding, to continue the work of people in this room and the men and women all over this country looking for a cure," she said at the event. Congresswoman Waters is particularly concerned about health disparities. "According to the Office of Minority Health of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, cancer is the second leading cause of death for most racial and ethnic minorities in the United States. So it is a major killer for all population groups, but we know that different populations are impacted by cancer in different ways. Unfortunately, people of color disproportionately suffer from cancer," she said. In the African American community, for example, although African American women were 10% less likely to have been diagnosed with breast cancer in 2006, they were 40% more likely to die from the disease, compared to non-Hispanic white women. Stomach cancer also affects different groups differently: Asian American and Pacific Islander men are twice as likely to die from stomach cancer as non-Hispanic white men, and Asian American and Pacific Islander women are 2.7 times as likely to die from stomach cancer. "We need research to understand how and why this occurs and in turn how we can prevent and treat people to save lives," said Congresswoman Waters. "In addition, we must be willing to battle the nation's powerful insurance companies for making decisions motivated by profit even at the expense of the wellbeing of their customers. As we saw over the past year, we had to fight the industry to secure protections for patients so their insurer could not drop them from coverage when they get sick or impose caps on the amount of care that would be covered." ###
11.10.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a Congressional advocate for Alzheimer's patients, families and caregivers, participated in the Alzheimer's Association Memory Walk LA event on Sunday, November 7th to highlight the need for increased research, education and funding to fight the disease. She delivered the following remarks: "I am so proud to be here with all of you, and I am so proud to support the Alzheimer's Association's Memory Walk to raise awareness and funds for Alzheimer's treatment, support and research. Alzheimer's disease is a tragic disease that affects more than five million Americans, and it has a devastating impact on families. The Alzheimer's Association reported that almost 11 million Americans provide unpaid care for a person with Alzheimer's disease or another form of dementia. Caregivers include spouses, children, and even grandchildren. Caregiving is extremely stressful. More than 40 percent of caregivers rate the emotional stress as high or very high, and about one-third of caregivers have symptoms of depression. Caregiving also takes a financial toll. Many individuals quit work, reduce their hours or take time off of work in order to provide care. As a Member of Congress, I am working hard to expand federal support for Alzheimer's patients, caregivers, and families, and I've worked closely with the Alzheimer's Association. • Last year, the House of Representatives passed my legislation to expand the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. This program was originally developed by the Alzheimer's Association to help local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away from home or are missing and reunite them with their families. The Senate Judiciary Committee passed the bill in June, and it is now awaiting consideration by the full Senate. • I also introduced the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act, which would provide grants to improve treatment for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. This bill has 79 cosponsors representing both political parties, and it's been endorsed by the Alzheimer's Association and nearly 100 other national, state and local organizations. • In addition, I helped the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association obtain a $190,000 grant for caregiver education, outreach and public awareness right here in Los Angeles. I congratulate all of you for participating in today's Memory Walk, and especially during November, which is National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month, I commend you for your commitment to improving the lives of Alzheimer's patients and their families and expanding research to find a cure for this heartbreaking disease." ###
11.05.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement regarding the murder of Aaron Shannon Jr., who was shot on Sunday afternoon in South Los Angeles while dressed in his Spider-Man costume for Halloween and preparing to go trick-or-treating: "I am devastated by the senseless killing of Aaron Shannon Jr., and I offer my deepest condolences to his family. The joy of this innocent 5 year old boy as he showed his loved ones his Halloween costume was violently interrupted and his life tragically ended by dangerous criminals. I hope that the murderers will be quickly apprehended so they will not continue to pose a threat to the residents of our community. Certainly, we can all agree that anyone who has information about the killing of a young, innocent child should come forward to help authorities apprehend the shooters. My thoughts and prayers are with Aaron's family, friends, and neighbors." ###
10.29.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) expressed her concerns today about the cholera epidemic in Haiti and urged the U.S. government to take immediate action to respond to this health crisis. "I am deeply concerned about the outbreak of cholera in Haiti, and I urge the U.S. government to take immediate action to contain this outbreak," said Congresswoman Waters. "Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, and its infrastructure was depleted by the earthquake. Haiti does not have the capacity to respond to a health crisis of this magnitude on its own, so humanitarian assistance from the U.S. and other international actors is desperately needed." According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), cholera is an intestinal infection that is highly transmissible, typically through contaminated drinking water. Cholera can spread rapidly in the absence of clean water supplies and good sanitation systems. Congresswoman Waters has visited Haiti twice since last January's earthquake. During her trips, she toured camps for the displaced and urged that more be done to improve living conditions in these camps. In a statement on March 11, 2010, following her second trip, she warned, "Malaria, typhoid, scabies and other highly infectious and deadly diseases are going to spread like wildfire unless a comprehensive plan is implemented to acquire thousands of durable shelter units and set them up safely, sustainably, and immediately." According to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, 4,722 cases of cholera in Haiti have been confirmed, and 303 deaths have been reported. The cholera outbreak is concentrated along the Artibonite River near the city of St. Marc. The State Department, the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and the CDC are working with United Nations agencies, non-governmental organizations, and the Government of Haiti to contain the cholera epidemic and provide medical treatment to those who need it. However, containment efforts have been insufficient given the highly transmissible nature of the disease and its tendency to spread rapidly among populations that lack access to clean water and sanitation infrastructure. Congresswoman Waters said, "More than four thousand people have already been infected with cholera, and there is a frightening potential for this disease to spread in Port-au-Prince, where more than a million people are living in tent camps for the displaced and thousands of others live in impoverished communities without access to clean water and basic sanitation. There is an urgent need for widespread distribution of potable water, public health education efforts, and expanded capacity to diagnose and treat the sick." The massive 7.0 earthquake that hit Haiti last January caused tremendous destruction. The earthquake killed approximately 230,000 people and displaced two million. The earthquake destroyed more than 105,000 homes, more than 50 hospitals and health centers, and about 1,300 educational institutions, as well as the main port, the presidential palace, the parliament, and the majority of ministry buildings. The financial costs have been estimated at over eight billion dollars. According to USAID, 1.3 million displaced people are living in settlement camps in Port-au-Prince as a result of the earthquake. Thousands of other displaced people have migrated to more remote areas of Haiti were they are living with friends and relatives in overcrowded and impoverished conditions. USAID estimates that over 162,000 displaced people migrated to the impoverished Artibonite region where the cholera epidemic is concentrated. Congresswoman Waters said, "Humanitarian assistance is essential for Haiti, but it is not enough. The United States and other international donors need to keep their promises to help Haiti develop its infrastructure. If the Artibonite region of Haiti had basic sanitation and clean water distribution systems, this cholera outbreak probably would never have happened." Following the earthquake, international donors pledged $9.9 billion in aid for Haiti's reconstruction and development, including $5.3 billion for the first two years. However, little if any of these funds have actually reached Haiti. This is not the first time that the international community has failed to follow through on its commitments to Haiti. For example, the Inter-American Development Bank approved $146 million in development assistance loans to Haiti in 1998, but the disbursement of these loans was delayed for several years. About $54 million of these loans was for the development of Haiti's water infrastructure. ###
10.27.2010	Citing the inability of millions of Americans to view the baseball playoffs and other popular TV shows on Fox networks due to a dispute between News Corporation and Cablevision, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) has raised additional questions about the pending merger of Comcast and NBC Universal. In a letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski, Congresswoman Waters expresses concern about the potential harm to American consumers if Comcast exerts its considerable leverage of owning NBC content to negotiate higher rates to competing cable companies and internet providers. A similar letter was also sent to the Justice Department, which along with the FCC must review the merger and decide whether it gains approval. The text of Congresswoman Waters' letter follows: Dear Chairman Genachowski, As a Member of the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the Judiciary, I write to express my ongoing concern for the potential impact the Comcast-NBC merger could have on our already heavily-consolidated media industry. Moreover, in light of Cablevision's current dispute with News Corporation (News Corp.) over the fees it pays the media conglomerate to carry Fox programming, I have grown increasingly concerned with the potential harm that could result if such a dispute ever arose between a competing cable company and a combined Comcast-NBC. Absent substantive diversity and other public interest conditions, the Comcast-NBC merger could prove harmful to competition among traditional cable and broadcast companies, as well as the American public's ability to access independent and alternative sources of news and entertainment. I therefore urge the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and Department of Justice (DOJ) to conduct an extensive review, ensuring that if the merger is approved, it contains substantive and enforceable conditions that foster greater diversity, localism, and competition. In the same manner that Fox is withholding its content from Cablevision customers, a similar dispute could have broader implications if Comcast Corporation is allowed to use its ownership of NBC content as leverage in negotiating higher rates for competing cable companies and content providers. While a combined Comcast-NBCU would not have to charge itself a carriage fee, it could charge other companies exorbitant rates, driving competitors out of business, resulting in less consumer choice. The same illustration is true for online content as Comcast could also deny competing ISPs access to its online properties or charge competing Internet programmers higher rates to utilize its broadband platform to launch online media and entertainment content. Today, Comcast Corporation is the nation's largest cable company, owning multiple cable franchises in 39 states. Comcast has 23.9 million customers and 15 million high-speed Internet customers. Under the merger agreement, Comcast stands to gain majority ownership and control of NBC Universal's national television networks, 26 local broadcast television stations, motion picture studio, television production company, and online properties. A combined Comcast-NBCU would have unprecedented economic incentive and leverage in negotiating with competing cable systems, ISPs, and other distribution platforms. Any new channels and networks would be compelled to work with Comcast in order to reach a wide audience. Therefore, the FCC and DOJ should strongly consider the impact the merger could have in areas where Comcast will own both a cable system and an NBC owned-and-operated broadcast station. I also encourage the FCC and Department of Justice (DOJ) to closely examine the substance of Comcast and NBC's proposed diversity commitments. To date, these include commitments to: launch ten independent channels over 8 years, without specifying how those channels will be carried and how many subscribers the channels will reach; launch a $20 million capital fund for minority entrepreneurs, a marginal amount considering the scale of modern media ownership and associated operational costs; and both companies have committed to "improve" diversity in management, recruitment, leadership, and procurement, without outlining in greater specificity how they intend to improve minority representation in these areas. In addition to my ongoing concerns for diversity in media ownership, programming, management, and advertising, the Commission and the Justice Department should look to some of the broader, public interest proposals advanced by the FCC Advisory Committee on Diversity for Communications in the Digital Age. For example, the S-License Proposal would allow full power broadcasters to ‘sublease' a portion of its spectrum to a qualifying entity in exchange for a fee. If properly implemented, the proposal would promote greater media ownership diversity, furthering the FCC's goal to ensure efficient spectrum use. Further, the Advisory Committee has also called on the FCC to complete a comprehensive study on the impact the Commission's policies have had on media ownership opportunities for women and minorities (Adarand Studies). I believe the FCC should comply and fulfill this statutory obligation to determine if its policies are indeed fostering diversity of broadcast viewpoints. I do hope you will consider the very serious public interests concerns outlined above while conducting your Comcast-NBC merger review. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
10.21.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement upon the passing of California State Senator Jenny Oropeza (D-Long Beach): "The South Bay has lost an effective and passionate advocate today with the untimely passing of State Senator Jenny Oropeza. I join Senator Oropeza's family, friends, staff and constituents in mourning her loss. Senator Oropeza used her voice in Sacramento to advocate for the needs of her constituents. On issues ranging from cleaning up LAX to the preservation of the Ballona Wetlands to upgrading transportation infrastructure, among others, she got results for her district. Indeed, with our respective districts overlapping in LAX, Westchester and Marina del Rey, we often advocated for similar issues. And Senator Oropeza was a fighter. She bravely battled liver cancer while carrying out her legislative duties, and never let it deter her. In fact, she met her illness head on, beat it, and went back to the State Capitol to introduce legislation to expand cancer prevention. I admire her tenacity and her dedication to her constituents, and I am very saddened that she is no longer with us. My thoughts and prayers are with her family, friends, staff and constituents during this difficult time." ###
10.20.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced her support for a new $546 million federal loan to support the construction of the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor today at a press conference in Leimert Park. The new loan is the first major federal funding commitment for the 30/10 Initiative. She issued the following statement: "I am proud to join all of you to celebrate the first major federal funding commitment for the 30/10 Initiative. Metro's 30/10 Initiative will expedite the construction of 12 key Metro projects, including two that will serve my congressional district: the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor and the Green Line Extension to LAX. Metro developed the 30/10 Initiative to complete these vital transit projects in 10 years instead of 30 by using the long-term revenue from the Measure R sales tax to leverage federal loans and long-term bonds. The 30/10 Initiative will create jobs now when our economy really needs them and give our region the benefits of an enhanced public transportation system two decades before it would have been possible without federal support. Taken together, the 30/10 projects will create over one hundred thousand new jobs and improve transit infrastructure throughout Los Angeles County. I am especially proud that the first major federal funding for the 30/10 Initiative will be used for the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor. This new light rail project will extend from Exposition Boulevard in the north to LAX and the Green Line in the south. I have long been an advocate for connecting LAX to the regional transit system, and I am excited to see this project moving forward. The 30/10 Initiative will allow the Crenshaw/LAX Transit Corridor to be completed by 2016, two years earlier than originally scheduled. When it's completed, this project will improve air quality and relieve traffic congestion in my district, and it will allow travelers from all across the region to come to LAX without the hassle of driving and without looking for a parking space. The Corridor will provide my constituents easier access to work, school, shopping, entertainment, and everything else Los Angeles has to offer. This new federal support will create thousands of new jobs, stimulate our local economy, and help Metro build a more sustainable, environmentally friendly way for all of us to get around." ###
10.19.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) held a press conference today with community leaders to announce $6.64 million in funding for 12 projects in her district and the Los Angeles area. Funding for the projects was included in the Fiscal Year 2010 appropriations legislation passed by Congress and signed by the President last year. A list of the recipients and the funding amounts is below. Congresswoman Waters released the following statement: "I have always believed that the appropriations process is a critical tool meant to support organizations who work to improve the quality of life for the American people. Each year, I carefully review the funding requests that I receive, and I work to be a strong advocate for these requests during the lengthy, complicated, and sometimes contentious appropriations process. It's important to note that earmarks do not cost the federal government ‘additional' money. Members of Congress direct portions of money from an existing fund to organizations that submit concrete proposals on the work they're doing to better their community and their country. That's why I am pleased to congratulate the recipients of a combined $6.64 million in my district. These groups and their projects are as diverse as my congressional district, doing important work ranging from preventing homelessness; to increasing public safety; to improving water purity and delivery; to mitigating youth violence; to upgrading aging or outdated infrastructure. I thank them for the work they do, and I look forward to continuing my advocacy in Congress on behalf of the cities, organizations and institutions that serve my constituents and improve their quality of life." ### • City of Gardena - Public Safety Surveillance Initiative: $350,000 • City of Inglewood - Water System Reliability Program Improvement Project: $100,000 • City of Lawndale - New Community Center: $300,000 • City of Hawthorne - Rosencrans Avenue/405 Freeway Ramp Widening Project: $499,915 • Beyond Shelter - Early Intervention Demonstration Project: $400,000 • TELACU - TELACU Neighborhood Stabilization Corporation: $500,000 • Centinela Youth Services- Parent Efficacy Program: $200,000 • First Community Development Corporation - Computer Lab Resource Center: $150,000 • Loyola Marymount University - Frank R. Seaver Science and Engineering Initiative: $1.76 million • Los Angeles Southwest College - Health Careers Regional Academy: $297,000 • Flyer Defense LLC - Light Mobility Internally Transported Vehicle: $1.6 million • West Basin Municipal Water District - Harbor/South Bay Water Recycling Project: $484,000 Total: $6,640,915
10.19.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), who chairs the House Financial Services Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, criticized the Bank of America following its announcement that it would resume foreclosures on more than 100,000 mortgages by next week in the 23 states where court approval for foreclosures is required. She also expressed concern about lender and servicer GMAC Mortgage, which also announced an end to its freeze on foreclosures. "I am disappointed by Bank of America's rush to resume foreclosures after such a short review that calls into question how it could examine more than 100,000 mortgages so quickly. I am also concerned that GMAC is moving ahead with foreclosures despite an employee's admission that he ‘robosigned' 10,000 foreclosure affidavits a month without verifying the accuracy of the documents. At a time of so much uncertainty among homeowners, prospective buyers, lenders and servicers as to who has title to properties, I have called on Bank of America, GMAC and their peers to engage in a temporary suspension of foreclosures to allow for a thorough, thoughtful evaluation of the facts in each and every case. There is ample evidence that homeowners have been harmed by wrongful foreclosures. Regulators need to initiate a full review of Bank of America, GMAC and other servicers because we cannot leave it to the banks to review and police themselves. In America, every family at risk of losing its home deserves fair consideration of the facts as well as an opportunity for alternative action. Foreclosure should only be the last resort. That's why I have introduced the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act (H.R. 3451) which prohibits a bank from initiating foreclosure proceedings without offering the homeowner loss mitigation." ###
10.18.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), who chairs the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, announced that the subcommittee will hold a hearing on the foreclosure crisis as soon as the House of Representatives reconvenes in November. The hearing, scheduled for Thursday, November 18th at 10:00 a.m., will investigate the problems that have recently surfaced in the mortgage servicing industry, including improper and illegal foreclosures. Media reports and the nation's major banks themselves have revealed that improper and potentially fraudulent foreclosures have been widespread, not merely isolated incidents, and several of the leading mortgage servicers have voluntarily suspended at least some of their foreclosure proceedings to investigate their procedures. In addition to hearing testimony from industry representatives, government regulators, and outside watchdogs, Chairwoman Waters wants to examine various proposed solutions to address the nation's foreclosure crisis. "The foreclosure process is a patchwork of different state rules, timeframes and procedures so there is no single national standard," noted Congresswoman Waters, "but some states are providing innovative, effective responses that might be informative for Congress and federal policymakers." Congresswoman Waters has introduced the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act (H.R. 3451) to keep homeowners in their homes, and ensure that foreclosure remains a last resort only after loan modifications have been explored. ###
10.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) announced her support for legislation to provide Social Security recipients with a one-time, $250 payment after the Social Security Administration said today that there will not be an automatic Cost-of-Living-Adjustment (COLA) for 2011. Next year will be the second consecutive year that seniors and other recipients will see no increase in their monthly Social Security, SSI, VA Pension and Compensation, and Railroad Retirement benefits. This unprecedented situation is a result of economic conditions, not the result of Congressional or Presidential action or inaction. The COLA is automatically calculated using data on inflation published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). In 2009, Social Security recipients saw a 5.8% increase in their benefits, the largest since 1982, as a result of rising costs; but in 2010, they saw no COLA at all. "Americans who rely on Social Security to survive will need additional help next year," said Congresswoman Waters. "As soon as Congress reconvenes in November, my colleagues and I will act quickly to pass H.R. 5987, the Seniors Protection Act. The Act will provide a one-time, $250 payment to about 54 million American seniors, veterans, and those with disabilities to help them make ends meet during this tough time when housing values are down, other retirement income is volatile, and many are facing rising expenses." Social Security benefit levels are modest – only $14,000 a year for the average retiree. The median income for senior households is just $24,000, reflecting just how much Social Security means to most elderly Americans. Six in ten seniors rely on Social Security for more than half of their income, and about a third of retirees have little other than Social Security on which to live. "The Administration has already budgeted for this, meaning we can do this in a fiscally responsible way," Congresswoman Waters said. "I will vote for this legislation in November and will continue to stand up for seniors and other vulnerable Americans." Gains for SeniorsThe 111th Congress has worked to strengthen the economic security of America's seniors. In the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, Congress provided seniors and other beneficiaries a $250 economic recovery payment to boost the economy and help them weather an anticipated upcoming COLA cutback. In fact, a recent study by the Economic Policy Institute showed that similar payments to seniors in 2009 strengthened the economy, increasing the nation's GDP by 0.5% in the second quarter of the year, and creating or saving 125,000 American jobs. Under health reform, millions of seniors will save thousands of dollars on their prescription drug costs by phasing out the Medicare prescription drug "donut hole" coverage gap and Medicare will be strengthened. In 2010, 4 million seniors who hit the donut hole are receiving a $250 rebate check. Beginning in 2011, seniors who hit the donut hole will receive a 50 percent discount on brand name drugs, and the donut hole will be completely closed by 2020. In addition, beginning on January 1, 2011, the Affordable Care Act provides that seniors will receive, under Medicare, free preventive services such as mammograms and certain colon cancer tests and a free annual physical. The Affordable Care Act also strengthens Medicare by extending the solvency of the trust fund by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029. Both of these plans to bring greater security to America's seniors were opposed by Republicans in Congress who created the donut hole and would stop donut hole checks to seniors, and who favor turning over Medicare to the insurance companies, forcing seniors to hunt for their own coverage with vouchers that would decrease in value over time. Internet MythsThere are several false rumors circulating among seniors on the internet about Social Security and the reasons for the lack of a COLA. You may find useful the debunking information at the following links: • "Is it true that the Democratic Congress will not allow an increase in the Social Security COLA?"https://www.factcheck.org/2009/09/social-security-cola/ • Is SSA spending COLA money on electronic medical records, instead of a COLA?https://www.factcheck.org/2009/12/electronic-medical-records-for-congress/ • Debunking myths about the history of Social Securityhttps://www.ssa.gov/history/InternetMyths.html/ ###
10.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading proponent of legislation to help families affected by Alzheimer's disease, congratulated the Alzheimer's Association for completing a new report on the effects of Alzheimer's disease on women. "I congratulate the Alzheimer's Association for producing a groundbreaking new report on women and Alzheimer's disease," said Congresswoman Waters. "This report shows that Alzheimer's is taking a tremendous toll not only on women who suffer from the disease but also on women who provide care to suffering family members." According to the report released yesterday, 65% of persons with Alzheimer's disease are women, and 60% of caregivers for persons with Alzheimer's disease are women. A third of women caregivers report that they spend all day, every day caring for their loved one, and nearly 40% said they had no choice in becoming a caregiver. Almost two-thirds of all caregivers who work report having to go to work late, leave early or take time off to provide care. However, they also report receiving less support for elder care than for child care. Almost half of all women caregivers report high levels of physical and emotional stress. "We learn from this report that ten million women are directly affected by this devastating disease: 3.3 million women who suffer from Alzheimer's disease and 6.7 million women who are providing care to a friend or loved one," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am working in Congress to support all of the patients, caregivers and families who have to live with this disease every day." Congresswoman Waters introduced H.R. 908, a bill to expand the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, a Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away from home or are missing and reunite them with their families. The House of Representatives passed the bill last year, and the Senate Judiciary Committee passed it in June. It is now awaiting consideration by the full Senate. Congresswoman Waters also introduced H.R. 4123, the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act. This bill would authorize grants to improve treatment for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. This bill has 79 bipartisan cosponsors and is supported by nearly 100 national, state and local organizations. To read more about Congresswoman Waters' work on Alzheimer's disease, click here. ###
10.13.2010	In a national TV interview today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), who chairs the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, reiterated her call for a suspension of foreclosures in all 50 states and also discussed legislation she has proposed to help solve the nationwide foreclosure problem. During the interview on CNBC's "Squawk on the Street" program, Congresswoman Waters said that a foreclosure moratorium, along with an investigation into reported fraud at the hands of the major mortgage servicers, is necessary to "hit the pause button" and stop unwarranted foreclosures and other systemic problems in the mortgage servicing industry. While strongly supporting a nationwide moratorium, Congresswoman Waters emphasized this is a necessary step but not enough to solve the foreclosure problem. Congresswoman Waters pointed to additional steps that should be taken, including mandatory loan modifications, to keep homeowners in their homes, and ensure that foreclosure remains a last resort only after these steps have been explored. She has introduced the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act (H.R. 3451) which prohibits the initiation of foreclosure proceedings without offering the homeowner loss mitigation. Loss mitigation includes a variety of options: mortgage modification, a repayment plan, waiver of interest or fees, forbearance, short refinancing, short sale, deed-in-lieu of foreclosure, or cancellation or postponement of a foreclosure sale to allow the borrower additional time to sell the property. The Congresswoman steadfastly defended her assertion that millions of Americans could have avoided foreclosure if loss mitigation were required. She also noted that many families have wrongly lost their homes because some servicers engaged in fraud and collusion by processing foreclosures without properly reviewing each homeowner's case. During and after the interview, the Congresswoman's office received dozens and dozens of calls from Americans all over the country who expressed appreciation that someone was standing up for them. Many shared stories of their own experiences being tricked by bankers and brokers pushing exotic financial products and offering low-interest loans, only to watch their mortgages reset, their interest rates skyrocket, and their banks and servicers give them the runaround. Congresswoman Waters announced that the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee will hold a hearing on the foreclosure crisis as soon as the House reconvenes in November. ###
10.08.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today reiterated her call for a moratorium on foreclosures while the appropriate federal regulators investigate fully the illegal and improper actions by mortgage servicers and the servicers themselves review their procedures. "With concerns about tens of thousands of foreclosures occurring in violation of standard procedures and possibly even illegally, and many American families wrongly losing their homes as a result, a nationwide suspension of all foreclosures is now urgently needed," said Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee. Three of the nation's largest mortgage servicers – GMAC, JP Morgan Chase and Bank of America – had previously suspended foreclosures in 23 states where courts have jurisdiction over foreclosures amid revelations that their employees had signed and filed thousands of affidavits in order to foreclose on properties without giving them appropriate review. Congresswoman Waters wrote letters to the CEOs of major financial institutions including Citigroup, HSBC, PNC, U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo asking their mortgage units to suspend foreclosures until they can thoroughly review their procedures. Subsequently, Bank of America has announced it is suspending foreclosures in all 50 states in order to further review and assess its practices and decisions related to foreclosures, and PNC has announced it will suspend most foreclosures and evictions in those 23 states for 30 days so it can review whether it has complied with state laws with the documents submitted to state courts. Congresswoman Waters said, "While I am pleased that Bank of America has suspended all foreclosures, it is clear to me that until all mortgage servicers suspend all foreclosures – in both judicial and non-judicial states – America's homeowners and our housing market will continue to be at risk. A foreclosure suspension is not enough, but it is an important and necessary step at this time. I will continue to seek solutions to our nation's foreclosure crisis so we can protect homeowners." Congresswoman Waters also sent letters to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward DeMarco and Federal Housing Administration Commissioner David Stevens asking each of them to ensure that their agencies fully use their authority to implement a suspension of all foreclosures, investigate the mortgage servicing companies, enforce regulations and take steps to monitor compliance. The text of those letters and additional information about the Congresswoman's leadership on foreclosure prevention can be found by clicking here. ###
10.07.2010	Following today's announcement by the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct that it has scheduled an adjudicatory hearing for Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) beginning on November 29th, Congresswoman Waters said, "After an investigation that has lasted over a year, I am eager to have the opportunity to clear my name. I would have liked for this matter to be resolved before the election in November and have repeatedly called for a hearing to be scheduled as soon as possible." Bolstered by support from her constituents and people around the country, Congresswoman Waters has steadfastly defended herself against accusations by critics and the committee's Statement of Alleged Violations related to her efforts to assist minority banks and the communities they serve. This summer she held a press conference regarding the matter to lay out the facts, to answer any questions posed by the media and to point out the weakness of the case against her. Congresswoman Waters today reiterated her confidence. "I will defend myself vigorously because I have not violated any House rules, and I will not allow anyone to suggest my life's work has been motivated by anything other than the public interest. The facts and the evidence are on my side: No benefit, no improper action, no failure to disclose, no one influenced: no case." ###
10.07.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading proponent for democracy, human rights and economic empowerment in Haiti, and 44 other Members of Congress are urging Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to support free, fair and inclusive elections in Haiti this November. The Congresswoman and her colleagues are concerned that the exclusion of over a dozen political parties – including the country's largest party, Fanmi Lavalas – from the November ballot is undemocratic and unconstitutional. They also raise concerns about Haitian voters having access to voting cards and polling stations, particularly those voters displaced by the devastating earthquake earlier this year. The signers of the letter believe that if the Haitian government does not implement basic democratic reforms, the election will not be viewed as legitimate by the Haitian people or the international community, the next government will lack the ability to govern, and the ongoing recovery process could be impeded. They conclude by stating, "The United States government should also state unequivocally that it will not provide funding for elections that do not meet these minimum, basic democratic requirements." The text of the letter appears below: Dear Secretary Clinton: We are writing to express our concerns about the November 28 presidential and parliamentary elections in Haiti. We believe it is imperative that these elections be free, fair, and inclusive, and result in a government that is legitimate and perceived as legitimate. The November 28 elections are particularly important to re-establish an effective legislature, establish political accountability for the expenditure of large amounts of money, and resolve Haiti's current societal disputes in a peaceful and democratic manner. As it currently stands, Haiti's Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) has decided to exclude candidates from over a dozen political parties from participating in the elections, including Fanmi Lavalas, Haiti's largest political party. The exclusion will undermine both Haitians' right to vote and the resulting government's ability to govern. Last November, the CEP, which was appointed through a process not recognized in Haiti's Constitution, excluded 14 parties from parliamentary elections then scheduled for February 2010, without providing a written, comprehensive explanation. Although those elections were postponed and rescheduled for this November 28, the CEP refused to revisit the disqualifications, which have been widely condemned by civil society and parties across Haiti's political spectrum. A previous CEP, with many of the same members, also excluded Fanmi Lavalas and other parties from Senatorial elections in April 2009. Haitian voters boycotted, and most observers estimated a 3-6% voter turnout. Although some may argue that Haiti has more pressing problems, allowing flawed elections now will come back to haunt the international community later. Haiti's next government will be called upon to make difficult decisions in the reconstruction process that will have a lasting impact on Haitian society, such as land reform and allocation of reconstruction projects among urban and rural areas. Conferring these decisions on a government perceived as illegitimate is a recipe for disaster. Haiti's next government will also have to ask its citizens to make sacrifices, such as losing land through eminent domain, or take risks, such as relocating to a new displacement camp. Citizens are unlikely to sacrifice for or trust a government that obtained power through dishonest means. President John Kennedy famously remarked, "Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable." Running transparently unfair, exclusive elections, with the support of the international community, will leave many Haitians to conclude that they have no choice but to protest the elections and the consequent government through social disruption. That disruption threatens to severely limit such a government's ability to govern, and imperils the United States' past and future investments in Haiti's reconstruction. The CEP and international community must also ensure that all Haitians entitled to vote are afforded the opportunity to do so. This includes all those who have lost their voting cards and other identity documents in the earthquake this year, as well as those who have turned 18 since the last elections in 2006. We are particularly concerned that the 1.5 million people who have been internally displaced have access to identity cards and polling stations close to the camps where they live so that they can vote. This is also essential to holding legitimate elections. We call on you to make a clear statement that elections must include all eligible political parties and ready access to voting for all Haitians, including the displaced. The United States government should also state unequivocally that it will not provide funding for elections that do not meet these minimum, basic democratic requirements. Sincerely, Maxine Waters; Donald Payne; William Delahunt; Barbara Lee; Debbie Wasserman Schultz; Alcee L. Hastings; Charles B. Rangel; Jan Schakowsky; Dennis Kucinich; Hank Johnson; Jim McDermott; Yvette D. Clarke; John W. Olver; Keith Ellison; Sam Farr; Donna M. Christensen; Raúl Grijalva; Michael Honda; Betty McCollum; Laura Richardson; Alan Grayson; Chellie Pingree; Eleanor Holmes Norton; Danny K. Davis; Sheila Jackson Lee; Elijah Cummings; Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick; Lynn Woolsey; Chaka Fattah; Fortney "Pete" Stark; Al Green; Stephen Lynch; Donna F. Edwards; John Lewis; Bob Filner; Diane Watson; Bennie G. Thompson; Tammy Baldwin; John Garamendi; Bobby L. Rush; Jesse L. Jackson Jr.; Bart Gordon; Melvin L. Watt; Corrine Brown; Lucille Roybal-Allard Members of Congress
10.07.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, welcomed the announcement today that $1 billion in funding will be distributed to help unemployed homeowners by providing emergency interest-free home loans. Congresswoman Waters secured funding for the Emergency Homeowners Loan Program (EHLP) during negotiations on the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. "Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own should not have to lose their homes as well. I fought for funding for this program to help homeowners and communities across the country most impacted by foreclosures and housing market declines," said Congresswoman Waters. EHLP will provide loans of up to $50,000 to eligible borrowers for up to two years to keep their homes out of foreclosure. The program, which is being administered by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), will assist homeowners in 32 states that did not receive funding from the Treasury Department's Innovation Fund for Hardest Hit Housing Markets program. Congresswoman Waters had negotiated with Treasury to secure $2 billion in funding for the "Hardest Hit" program. Based on the severity of the housing market decline and high unemployment in California, the state already received funding through Treasury's program to rehabilitate foreclosed properties and place them back on the market for low- and moderate-income homeowners. In fact, California has been the biggest recipient of "Hardest Hit" funding, receiving a total of $1.176 billion. "Since the recession started a couple of years ago, I have emphasized the need for Congress, the Administration and other policymakers to take steps to help homeowners, prevent foreclosures and assist neighborhoods that have been most severely impacted by the nation's housing crisis," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader in efforts to assist homeowners and prevent foreclosures. She was responsible for creating the Neighborhood Stabilization Program – despite opposition by the Bush Administration -- which enables local governments and non-profits to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned properties and sell those homes to low- and moderate-income buyers. In addition, she has introduced a number of bills addressing various aspects of the foreclosure crisis, including the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act of 2009 (H.R. 3451), which would prohibit servicers from foreclosing without first offering loan modifications to borrowers. ###
10.06.2010	Concerned about reports of misconduct at some of the nation's largest mortgage servicing companies, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) called for a moratorium on foreclosures while the appropriate federal regulators investigate fully the illegal and improper actions by mortgage servicers. Recently Ally Financial's GMAC mortgage unit and JP Morgan Chase's mortgage unit both revealed that employees had signed and filed thousands of affidavits in order to foreclose on properties without giving them appropriate review. Bank of America has also suspended thousands of foreclosure proceedings amid questions about its activities. "It appears that some major mortgage servicers processed tens of thousands of documents a month to rush to foreclose on properties, and it is likely that many families wrongly lost their homes as a result," said Congresswoman Waters. "This should not happen, and we must not tolerate such actions." Congresswoman Waters wrote letters to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, Federal Housing Finance Agency Acting Director Edward DeMarco and Federal Housing Administration Commissioner David Stevens asking each of them to ensure that their agencies fully use their authority to investigate the mortgage servicing companies, enforce regulations and take steps to monitor compliance. In addition, Congresswoman Waters wrote letters to the CEOs of major financial institutions including Citigroup, HSBC, PNC, U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo asking their mortgage units to suspend foreclosures until they can thoroughly review their procedures. The failure of mortgage servicers to follow the rules not only affects the homeowners who have mortgages with those companies but also American taxpayers in general. For example, Congresswoman Waters noted that the government's Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), a taxpayer-funded program designed to stop foreclosures, is being undermined in part by servicers moving too quickly to foreclose. Link to letter to FHA Link to letter to FHFA Link to letter to Treasury Link to letter to leading mortgage servicers Congresswoman Waters also was among 31 Democratic Representatives from California who sent letters to the Justice Department, the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency urging them to "investigate possible violations of law or regulations by financial institutions in their handling of delinquent mortgages, mortgage modifications and foreclosures". "Democrats in Congress passed legislation to reform Wall Street and protect consumers, and we will hold mortgage servicers and other financial institutions accountable. As the chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, I will continue to hold hearings and advance legislation that helps homeowners," said Congresswoman Waters. One such bill that Congresswoman Waters has introduced is the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act of 2009 (H.R. 3451), which would prohibit servicers from foreclosing without first offering loan modifications to borrowers. ###
10.04.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) was honored today with the 2010 Social Justice and Equality Award by the National Association of Minority and Women Owned Law Firms (NAMWOLF) during its annual meeting and law firm expo. The award recognizes members of Congress who have worked to promote greater equality and opportunity for minority and women-owned businesses by building relationships with government agencies or public sector groups. Congresswoman Waters was lauded by NAMWOLF for her work to author and pass legislation creating Offices of Women and Minority Inclusion at the federal government's financial agencies as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Erinn DePorre, a NAMWOLF law firm member and the moderator of today's event, introduced the Congresswoman and said, "Congresswoman Maxine Waters has earned a reputation as a fearless and outspoken advocate for people of color and women, most recently exemplified through her championing of legislation that requires federal financial agencies and departments to boost diversity in their organizations and in the companies they contract with and regulate." After the Congresswoman delivered remarks and gave a presentation on the Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion, NAMWOLF Managing Director Yolanda Coly presented her with the 2010 Social Justice and Equality Award, stating that the Congresswoman's consistent focus on the inclusion of minorities and women was the driving force behind her receiving the award. Congresswoman Waters thanked NAMWOLF for this honor and said, "The systemic exclusion of minorities and women in federal financial services contracting is well-known and well-documented. The Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion will make great inroads toward reversing this alarming trend and open up opportunities for the many experienced, capable and intelligent minority and women asset managers, financial analysts, and lawyers who deserve a seat at the table. She concluded by saying, "I encourage you and your colleagues to arm yourselves with the facts so we can stand up to the voices that seek to distort and lie about what these Offices will do, and to also submit your resumes so the government can harness our nation's top talent to ensure that opportunities are available and accessible to all." Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) was also honored by NAMWOLF for conducting a survey of Fortune 500 companies which revealed that minority and women owned businesses are still under-represented as suppliers for large corporations, as well as in corporate board rooms and on executive teams. ###
09.29.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement in remembrance of her friend and Seattle community and civil rights leader Roberto Maestas: "Roberto Maestas was one of the most remarkable human beings I have ever met in my lifetime. He is often described as "loving people unconditionally." While that description of Roberto is certainly evidenced by his life's work, it still does not adequately define him and his extraordinary support and love for people. I recall when I first met Roberto and visited the old school that he had led the takeover of some 8 years earlier. Taking over that school building was the act of a determined activist leader. I was thrilled to learn about the school becoming the home for El Centro de la Raza. The Head Start Program and the other programs he organized occupied the school building and became a great asset to the Seattle community. Roberto had a great sense of humor, he loved basketball, and he loved art and culture. His many trips to Central America and the art and artifacts prominently displayed at El Centro were all a part of who he was. Roberto was a well-known, admired, and respected leader. He was embraced by the powerful political establishment as well as the poorest on the street seeking help. I'll never forget his support for me and my family. Roberto was there for me when I needed him to counsel and support my grandson Mikael. Roberto took Mikael under his wing and helped to guide him at a most important time in Mikael's life. Roberto will be missed by his beloved wife Estela and his children, family, and friends. I will certainly never forget him and I will dedicate myself to supporting his family and El Centro de la Raza in any and every way I can." ###
09.23.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading proponent of legislation to increase funding and research to combat Alzheimer's disease and help those affected by the disease, issued the following statement in recognition of World Alzheimer's Day: "I join the millions of patients, family members and caregivers worldwide who are impacted by Alzheimer's disease in recognizing today as World Alzheimer's Day. I would especially like to recognize the Alzheimer's Association's delivery of a petition with over 100,000 signatures to Capitol Hill today, urging lawmakers to make the disease a national priority. I join them in asking my colleagues to do more, especially given the recent news that health care costs associated with Alzheimer's and dementia will top $600 billion worldwide this year. "Last year, the House passed my bill, H.R. 908, which reauthorizes, updates and expands the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, a Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away or are missing and reunite them with their families. The Senate Judiciary Committee passed the bill this summer, and I urge the full Senate to take up and pass H.R. 908 immediately. "I also authored H.R. 4123, the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act. This bill would authorize grants to improve treatment for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. This bill has 79 bipartisan cosponsors and is supported by nearly 100 national, state and local organizations. "Alzheimer's already impacts over 5 million Americans. Clearly, it is a widespread and serious health concern for our nation and especially among minority communities. African Americans and Hispanic Americans are 2 times as likely and 1.5 times as likely, respectively, compared to Whites, to develop the disease. We must combat Alzheimer's with a strong approach combining increased funding, education, treatment, support for caregivers and research for an eventual cure." ### To read more about Congresswoman Waters' work on Alzheimer's disease, click here.
09.15.2010	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement in celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 through October 15 every year: "I join with Latinos and Latinas in California's 35th Congressional District and all across the United States in celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month, which starts today. This month is a great opportunity to learn about and to recognize the history of Latinos in our state and our country, their significant accomplishments and their important ongoing contributions. "The Latino community in America, which now numbers almost 50 million, is diverse. The largest group is Mexican-Americans, many of whom tomorrow will be celebrating 200 years of Mexico's independence from Spain and later this year will commemorate the centennial of the Mexican Revolution, when the people of Mexico rose up against an oppressive dictatorship to establish a democratic government that promoted equality and human rights. I join the Mexican-American community in Los Angeles who will proudly begin celebrating the bicentennial tonight with "El Grito" events throughout the area. "Despite the diversity among Latinos, members of the community share common values with one another and with all other Americans: faith, family, and love of country. The Latino dream – the hope of a better, more prosperous future – is the American Dream. "Economically, culturally, and politically, Latinos are a vital part of our district, our state and our nation. American life has been enriched by Latino contributions in business, education, government, and the arts for more than 200 years. "As we celebrate the progress, success and achievements of the Latino community, we must also recognize the considerable challenges the community faces. Many Latino families and businesses have not fared well economically over the last several years as the failed economic policies of the Bush Administration led to the worst recession since the Great Depression. "Latinos, like African Americans and other minorities, have been particularly impacted by the economic downturn, with higher rates of unemployment and predatory subprime mortgages. "Over the last year and a half, the Democratic-led Congress has been working hard to improve the lives and meet the needs of America's Latino families – from the economy, to small businesses, to making college more affordable, to health care, to veterans. We must do all we can to better ensure that all Latinos, like all Americans, have a meaningful opportunity to improve their lives and pursue the American Dream. I will continue to be a strong advocate for Latinos and all of my constituents." ###
09.14.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, delivered the following remarks today to the Council of Federal Home Loan Banks at an event in the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center: "Good afternoon, ladies and gentleman. Thank you for inviting me here to speak to you today on the future of housing finance reform. First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the very important role of the Council of Federal Home Loan Banks in general and the Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco, in particular, in sustaining our local economies and community banks nationwide. More than 8,000 community banks in the U.S. belong to the Federal Home Loan Bank System and each member relies on its Federal Home Loan Bank as a stable source of lower-cost funding through all economic cycles. The funds provided from the twelve Federal Home Loan Banks help to finance homes, jobs, small businesses, local infrastructure and affordable housing throughout the country. It is evident that the Federal Home Loan Banks play a crucial role in supporting lending within local communities. Unfortunately, as we are all aware, the state of the other government sponsored entities, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, are under extreme scrutiny. Prior to the current financial crisis, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac operated successfully for many years. It was only within the past few years that they veered off-track in an effort to regain market share, and purchased poorly underwritten, and in some cases abusive, subprime loans and securities containing such loans. As a stockholder-owned entity with an implicit government guarantee, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were able to set their own underwriting standards. With the growth of private label mortgage backed securities, they lowered their underwriting standards and entered the subprime and Alt-A markets, driven by short-term, quarterly profits in order to stay competitive in the housing market. Since their conservatorships began over a year ago, they have received substantial infusions of government assistance, including Treasury's purchase of $64.1 billion in Freddie Mac preferred stock and $86.1 billion in Fannie Mae preferred stock. As part of the preferred stock purchase agreement, Treasury also received warrants to buy up to 79.9 percent of each enterprise's common stock. In addition to Treasury's assistance, the Federal Reserve purchased $1.36 trillion in mortgage backed securities held by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, according to a June 30, 2010 FHFA report. Given the enterprises past earnings history -- for example, Freddie Mac earned no more than $5 billion a year -- it may be a long time before these GSEs will be able to repay Treasury. That is why urgent consideration of new structures for these GSEs is critically important. This is not the first time housing GSEs have had trouble. In 1989, during the Savings and Loan (S&L) Crisis, the Home Loan Bank System was at the eye of the storm. At that time, the bank system was both the regulator of its customers, the Savings and Loans Associations, and the source of cash through its advances to S&L's. This conflict of interest helped propel the S&L Crisis. Congress was wise and did not get rid of the Home Loan Bank System; instead, it reformed it. The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) expanded the membership of the FHLBs, eliminated the regulatory role of the FHLBs, created the Affordable Housing Program (AHP), and charged the banks for the cleanup of the S&L Crisis through Resolution Funding Corporation (REFCORP) bonds. As the current crisis has proven, the reforms of 1989 have worked. That is because the FHLBs were part of the solution in this crisis, not the problem. So when I look at the Fannie and Freddie crisis, I look at how we can structurally change them to meet their important mission and to remove conflicts. I am studying various proposals for housing finance reform, including making them entirely publicly- or privately-owned. I don't believe elimination altogether is a viable option. Currently, no legislation has been considered yet to address how we will reform Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. However, one option worthy of study is a cooperative structure, similar to that of the Federal Home Loan Banks. In my role as Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, I requested that the Government Accounting Office (GAO) conduct a study of the cooperative structure as it would apply to the GSEs. Under the cooperative structure, the GSEs would be privately owned by lenders and conduct secondary mortgage market operations with explicit financial support from the federal government. However, the cooperative structure is just one model being proposed. We are still in the information-gathering phase as we examine and assess the different types of structures and role that would work best for the future of housing finance. As we continue to consider alternative models, I would also like to highlight the importance of ensuring affordable housing goals in whatever system we decide to implement. This government has a responsibility to assist Americans with affordable housing. In the last Congress, we passed legislation to create the first affordable housing production program with a dedicated source of funding, as provided in the National Housing Trust Fund. Unfortunately, funding for that Trust Fund never materialized once Fannie and Freddie went into conservatorship. It is critically important, moving forward, that we find a workable way to finance affordable rental housing construction, as well as ways to encourage sustainable homeownership. I am committed to ensuring that the new housing finance system will include affordable housing goals as a top priority. During this time where credit is tight and obtaining a home loan is harder than ever, the role of the FHL Banks in providing their member banks with access to low-cost funding is essential to the recovery of the national housing market. Although the conversation on the future of housing finance is just now beginning, it is clear that we must preserve the stability of the financial markets and create a new system with as little disruption to the markets as possible. I commend the role of the FHL Banks in supporting lending to our community banks nation wide and to assisting in the recovery of the housing market. Thank you for inviting me to speak today and I look forward to working together toward an expedient and effective recovery of our financial system." ###
09.14.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, delivered the following remarks today to the Public Housing Authorities Directors Association Legislative Forum at the L'Enfant Plaza Hotel: "Thank you so much for inviting me to address you today at your Legislative Forum. It is so important that you all came to Washington to send a strong message to Congress about the work you are doing, and the continued need for public and assisted housing in our communities. Visits like the one you are on this week remind policymakers, particularly those that aren't on the Financial Services Committee or who might not otherwise give much thought to public housing, of the struggles both your agencies and your residents are going through. I'm also happy you're in Washington D.C. because I believe there are a lot of misperceptions about public housing right now, and I'm glad you're here to help correct them. For example, because of the foreclosure crisis, there is the false impression that rental housing must be easier to afford than ever. But the data doesn't suggest that's the case. In fact, housing has become increasingly unaffordable for low-income renters since the start of the recession. Housing Affordability Crisis According to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, in 2009, 5.6 million households — or about 60 percent of all poor renter families — paid at least half of their income for rent and basic utilities. That's a 17 percent increase since HUD's last survey in 2007 and a devastating 45 percent increase since 2003. Keep in mind that for a typical family, housing costs consume only about a quarter of income and the federal government considers housing unaffordable if it costs more than 30 percent of a household's income. And in 2009, roughly 325,000 children lived at least part of the year in a homeless shelter, according to HUD data, an increase of 12 percent since 2007. Two to three times as many children were homeless if you count those living temporarily in hotels, doubled-up with other families, or on the street, according to separate data from the Department of Education. There are two real causes of this problem – and I'm sure you all see this play out, firsthand, in your communities. First, many poor households' incomes have fallen due to the unemployment crisis, making housing that much more unaffordable. Second, the houses that have been foreclosed upon are not returning to the housing stock as rental housing, so prices aren't being driven down. Though I secured $7 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program to address this challenge, we need more funds to keep pace with the scale of the problem. Fighting for Funding for Public and Assisted Housing So to me, the need to fund our public and assisted housing programs has always been clear. That's why I circulated a letter to the Appropriations Committee calling for $5 billion for the public housing capital and operating funds in fiscal year 2011. Unfortunately, the budget we received from the Administration was not as good for public housing as it could have been. Though the Administration called for $4.8 billion for the public housing operating account, only about $2 billion was proposed for the public housing capital fund. Now, we in the House pushed back against this, and the bill the House passed before our August recess ended up funding the capital fund at $2.5 billion, and the operating fund at $4.8 billion. But make no mistake, fighting for this funding was a difficult process, and I had to push back against many Members – even those in my own caucus. For example, as many of you may have heard, I had to work hard to defeat an amendment to the House appropriations bill that would have eliminated the $50 million Resident Opportunity and Supportive Services (ROSS) program, 10,000 new vouchers for homeless veterans and $200 million for HOPE VI, among other things. When I heard that this amendment was going to be offered, I quickly met with Chairman Frank and we mobilized Members to demonstrate just how devastating this amendment would be. Fortunately, the Members who drafted the amendment withdrew it when we fully explained the real-world consequences of what they were proposing. Unfortunately, attempts to cut these important programs are indicative of a mindset of many of my colleagues in Congress – a mindset that goes after our fragile social safety net during the greatest crisis since the Great Depression simply to look "tough" when it comes to the budget. Preserving and Transforming Rental Assistance (PETRA) And I'm afraid that this mindset is becoming more and more prevalent. For example, take the Preserving and Transforming Rental Assistance (PETRA) program proposed by HUD this year. While I am pleased that this Administration is actually thinking about the future of public housing, I'm afraid that this entire concept of leveraging and mortgaging is based on the premise that we've given up on trying to adequately fund the public housing capital account. This is distressing, particularly given the solid track record for the vast majority of public housing authorities in spending the $4 billion in capital funds I fought for and secured under the stimulus bill (American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009). It seems that under PETRA, they have simply given up on trying to preserve our commitment as a nation to provide adequate appropriations to house our most vulnerable citizens. Moreover, I am very concerned about what would happen to public housing under PETRA in the event of a bankruptcy or foreclosure. Right now we are in the middle of the worst foreclosure crisis this country has ever experienced. Many lenders made loans that simply weren't sustainable and homeowners subsequently defaulted on those loans. While the foreclosure of one home may be a tragedy, it is an event that only affects one family. The foreclosure of a public housing development would have a devastating impact for dozens—and in some cases—hundreds of families. Finally, I think it is important to maintain that there is value in public housing, particularly in the fact that it is "public" in the sense that its owners—housing authorities—are not profit driven. And public housing is very effective at serving the "hard to house" population—people who for one reason or another, can't navigate the private rental market. Allowing the private sector to enter may provide housing authorities with more capital, but for-profit actors will be looking for a profit. Neither this Congress nor this Administration should allow anyone to profit at the expense of public housing residents. So put simply, I believe PETRA is just too much, too soon. I think many questions remain unanswered, and I have yet to see precisely what the benefits or cost savings would be of combining the 12 or 13 separate rental assistance programs, when many were designed to serve distinct populations. As I said during the May hearing of the Financial Services Committee, I believe we need to take the next few years to map out the best course of action. While our Committee will continue to think about public housing financing proposals, we have acted on the Administration's proposal for Choice Neighborhoods, passing out my bill, H.R. 5814, in July. The first Title of this bill establishes the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative, which would be the successor program to HOPE VI. Though I know we have disagreements about some of the provisions in Choice Neighborhoods, I think that the bill we passed out of Committee represents a good compromise and mirrors many of the changes we made in my HOPE VI reauthorization bill from the last Congress. In addition to increasing appropriations to $575 million, my bill would also preserve the original intent of HOPE VI – to preserve and revitalize public housing – by setting aside two-thirds of funds for public housing developments. My Choice Neighborhoods bill would also allow public housing authorities to spend a greater percentage of their grants on supportive services, and would allow some spending on non-housing activities that build communities, without diluting the core function of HUD – to provide safe, decent and affordable housing. Conclusion So between our authorizing legislation, and trying to beat back the calls to cut our most important housing programs, we have had an ambitious housing agenda so far this Congress. Now that Congress has returned from recess, I will continue to call attention to these problems and to offer solutions, even when it is unpopular, and even in the face of an opposition who questions the wisdom of our nation's commitment to the preservation of public housing. Thank you so much for inviting me here today, and enjoy the rest of your conference." ###
09.10.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) joined Los Angeles-area religious and elected leaders at a press conference today at the First AME Church, where together they called on Pastor Terry Jones to keep his pledge to not burn the Quran – the Islamic holy book – tomorrow on the 9th anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks. Below are the Congresswoman's remarks as prepared for delivery: "I am here this morning with local elected and religious leaders to speak up and speak out not only about Dove World Outreach Center Pastor Terry Jones and his offensive plan to burn copies of the holy book of a major world religion, but also about the need for greater interfaith understanding, dialogue and tolerance here at home and around the world. I was absolutely shocked to learn about this pastor of a small, extremist congregation in Florida and his plan to destroy copies of the Quran tomorrow, the 9th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania that killed 3,000 Americans, international citizens, and people of many faiths and backgrounds. What is worse – the excessive media coverage gave Pastor Jones the soap box he craved, and helped make this an international crisis surrounding a day meant for personal and national remembrance and solidarity. His recent misleading statements about the planned burning, the conversations with government and religious representatives, the trip to New York, and the alleged deal to move the Islamic community center, only serve to confuse the public and further promote the desecration of Islam, and quite frankly, all world religions. American citizens – particularly our brave men and women deployed and working overseas – have no doubt been put in an unsafe position because of the fallout from Pastor Jones. We have already seen images of American flags being burned in direct correlation to these events out of Florida. Some international protestors have even been killed. The whole thing is divisive, it is confrontational, and it has no place in decent society. I urge Pastor Jones, who just today said he is "seriously, seriously, seriously considering not burning the Quran" to immediately and indefinitely cancel any plan to destroy copies of the Quran. But this is not just about Pastor Jones, or the Islamic community center in New York, or the Quran – this is fundamentally about who we are as a people. In human history, freedom has not been something easily earned, or easily maintained. But from the penning of the Constitution well over 200 years ago, religious freedom and tolerance were etched into the psyche of the American people. Billions of people around the world are watching us – the freest, most democratic and diverse country on the face of the planet. As members of the media, I hope you will take the hundreds of thousands of messages of diversity, hope, peace, tolerance, understanding, and freedom emanating from all corners of our great country and share them with the world. Let them know that our government, military and religious leaders – people like President Barack Obama, Secretaries Robert Gates and Hillary Clinton, General David Petraeus – and the larger American citizenry – Blacks and Whites, Young and Old, Republicans and Democrats, Jews, Christians, Buddhists, Muslims and others – are coming together and unequivocally denouncing not just Pastor Jones' actions, but any attacks on or acts of violence against peaceful, historic, world religions and the millions, if not billions, of people who identify with them. I want to thank you for being here today, and to now turn over the microphone to some of our other guests so we can continue to say ‘no' to bigotry, intolerance, and ignorance and ‘yes' to interfaith understanding, multiculturalism, and the values that bind us as a nation. Thank you." ###
09.08.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today celebrated the awarding of nearly $10 million in Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) grants to both the City and County of Los Angeles to purchase, rehabilitate and resell foreclosed homes in neighborhoods that have been devastated by the economic crisis. Congresswoman Waters, who serves as Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, authored the legislation that created NSP and has led efforts in the U.S. Congress to combat foreclosures and neighborhood decline. Congresswoman Waters has advocated continuously for robust funding of NSP, which to date totals $7 billion, including the $1 billion in awards announced today by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). The funds awarded today were provided under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act of 2010 via a formula developed by HUD. Congresswoman Waters, a member of the conference committee responsible for drafting that legislation, championed both the $1 billion NSP provision, as well as an additional $2 billion for a program provide loans to help unemployed homeowners stay in their homes. Today's awards mark the third infusion of funds to NSP; $4 billion in formula funds were previously provided under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, and an additional $2 billion in competitive funding was provided under the stimulus package in February 2009. Under those previous rounds of funding, the City and County of Los Angeles received a combined $210 million, and the State of California received $145 million. "The large awards made today to the City and County of Los Angeles reflect the seriousness of the foreclosure crisis in the Los Angeles area," said Congresswoman Waters. "While foreclosures are certainly a problem throughout California, they represent a true crisis in the 35th District. The rate at which banks reclaimed ownership of homes in foreclosure was 50 percent higher in the 35th District than the rate in California, and almost double the rate nationally." Since the recession took hold in December 2007, about 2.3 million homes nationally have been repossessed by banks. The foreclosure crisis continues to plague communities, with banks taking control over nearly 93,000 homes across the country in July, a nearly 40 percent increase over this time last year. "While I'm pleased that I was able to secure this third round of NSP funding, we still need additional resources given the scale of the foreclosure crisis. With nearly one in ten American households at risk for foreclosure, our communities will continue to be vulnerable without additional action," said the Congresswoman. Neighborhood stabilization funds are managed by three organizations in the City and County of Los Angeles. The City of L.A., in partnership with non-profit organizations, created Restore Neighorhoods L.A., a community based development organization, to run NSP in Central, East and South L.A., and the North and South San Fernando Valley. The L.A. Community Development Commission administers their neighborhood stabilization program in the areas of L.A. County that are outside of the City of L.A. Additionally, L.A. Neighborhood Housing Services, a non-profit lender and community developer, is leading a consortium of organizations in NSP work across Los Angeles, including areas in the 35th District. "I commend all the local advocates and officials who have been putting the funds we provide in Congress to good use on the ground," said Congresswoman Waters.
09.08.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement upon learning of the death of Jefferson Thomas, one of the Little Rock Nine – the nine African-American students who desegregated Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas in 1957: "My thoughts and prayers are with the family and friends of Jefferson Thomas. As we mourn his death, we also remember his life and his accomplishments. His courage and perseverance helped create opportunities for generations of African Americans and moved America closer to fulfilling its democratic ideals of equality, fairness and justice for all." "Jefferson Thomas was one of the Little Rock Nine, a group of nine African-American students who enrolled at Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas in 1957. Central was the largest high school in Little Rock, and like many schools at that time throughout the United States, especially in the South, it had no Black students. Although the Supreme Court decision in the Brown v. Board of Education case was issued in 1954, many communities took no action to implement the changes and open their schools to all students." "There was such fierce opposition to the desegregation of Central that President Eisenhower had to send soldiers to the school to ensure the Little Rock Nine would have access and be safe. Jefferson Thomas and his peers encountered much hostility, prejudice, bigotry and hatred when they enrolled at Central. They endured insults and faced threats of violence. However, Jefferson Thomas maintained his poise and kept his sense of humor." "I am proud that my colleagues and I in the House of Representatives voted in 1998 to award the Congressional Medal of Honor to Jefferson Thomas and all of the Little Rock Nine." "I hope that all Americans – and students and young people especially – who might not be familiar with the name Jefferson Thomas or remember the era in which he lived and the struggles he faced will take a moment to learn about him and reflect on the significance of what he accomplished." ###
09.03.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) visited Junipero Serra High School in Gardena yesterday and praised students and teachers for Serra's outstanding academic and athletic accomplishments. At a spirited "Welcome Back to School" assembly, Congresswoman Waters presented the school with a framed copy of a statement she filed in the Congressional Record that saluted Serra for having 100% of its graduates for the past four years accepted into college and for the success of its sports teams, most notably its state champion football and basketball teams. Congresswoman Waters said, "I congratulate President Erick Rubalcava, Principal Michael Wagner, Athletic Director Ted Dunlap, Head Football Coach Scott Altenberg, Head Basketball Coach Dwan Hurt, their assistant coaches, the entire school staff and all of the amazing faculty and students at Serra for their excellence both in academics and athletics. You all make me so proud!" In December, the Cavaliers won the California Interscholastic Federation's Division III state championship in football, and in March the Cavaliers won the Division III state championship in basketball, making Serra High School the first school in California history to win championships in both sports in the same school year. The school's boys track team came close to winning the state championship, and the girls basketball and track teams also won their divisions. At the end of the 2009-10 school year, Serra's athletic program was rated by ESPN as the fourth best all-around high school athletic program in the USA and the number one program in California. Junipero Serra High School is operated by the Department of Catholic Schools of the Archdiocese of Los Angeles. The school was founded in 1950 and has graduated more than six thousand students since its first graduating class in 1953. Over the years, the school has played a very important role in the life of the South Bay area. ###
08.26.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement in memory of Dr. Mario Obledo, a leader in the Latino community who tirelessly advocated for civil and human rights, led LULAC and served as California Secretary of Health and Welfare: "I was very saddened to learn of the passing of Dr. Mario Obledo, a true champion for human and civil rights. I feel honored to have had the opportunity to work with Mario in many ways. Not only did I work with him while he served as the California Secretary of Health and Welfare during my tenure in the California State Assembly, but I worked closely with him during Jesse Jackson's presidential campaign. He was a supporter of Rev. Jackson and helped form the National Rainbow Coalition where he also served as chairman of the organization and was instrumental in helping Blacks and Latinos obtain distributorships with the Southland Corporation. A few years ago, Mario demonstrated his tireless passion for civil rights when he headed to the California-Arizona border to tear down a racist sign that offended his people. Mario was considered the "Godfather of the Latino Movement." But he was also a trailblazer, opening up doors for Latinos and other minorities. He was a man of quiet strength and determination. He did not shout or scream- he simply executed. He was a true spokesperson for Latinos, children, and the forgotten. Mario led many organizations including LULAC, and helped found others such as MALDEF. As a result of his commitment and many contributions, these organizations have become institutions that protect the rights of Latinos and represent and defend their concerns and issues. Mario's receipt of the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1998 – the highest civilian honor in the United States – reflected his commitment to the betterment of the American people. Although we will miss Mario, let us continue his fight for justice and honor the strong legacy he leaves behind. I know his spirit will live on through his work and he is resting in peace. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Keda, his family and his friends." ###
08.26.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) was honored last night by NeighborWorks America at ‘A Celebration of Visionary Leaders', held at the Federal Reserve Bank in Los Angeles. Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, has long been a champion of affordable housing and homeownership, community revitalization and economic opportunity for all Americans. As a key member of the House-Senate conference committee that negotiated the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Congresswoman Waters secured significant assistance for unemployed homeowners and communities suffering from foreclosures. The bill contains a provision the Congresswoman authored to provide $1 billion in low-interest loans to help unemployed homeowners stay in their homes. This funding is in addition to $2 billion that the Treasury Department is providing—at the Congresswoman's insistence—to 17 states through its ‘Hardest Hit Fund'. Congresswoman Waters also secured an additional $1 billion for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), which provides grants to states and localities to buy and rehabilitate abandoned and foreclosed properties. NSP, which the Congresswoman created, has already received $6 billion in funding. During her speech thanking NeighborWorks America for this honor, Congresswoman Waters said, "Because of my efforts, and the efforts of advocates such as yourselves, we have additional resources to deal with this foreclosure crisis – but not nearly enough given the scale of the problem. California alone is at the epicenter of this crisis: of the total nationwide foreclosure activity that took place July, 21 percent occurred in our state alone." The Congresswoman continued, "Though the Administration's Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP) was well-intentioned, the number of families being offered modifications has decreased 86 percent since last year. In addition, about half of the homeowners who enter the program have been kicked out. These results have made it clear to me that we need a better solution to this crisis that involves empowering homeowners by requiring servicers to provide loan modifications. I have introduced legislation – HR 3451, the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act of 2009 – to do just that." Lori Gay of Neighborhood Housing Services of Los Angeles was also recognized by NeighborWorks of America. ###
08.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) hailed today's ruling by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that grants shareholders more power to determine how corporations are governed. Congresswoman Waters' amendment to give the SEC the authority to issue rules on proxy access was included in the recently enacted Wall Street reform legislation. "Americans are justifiably concerned about reports of excessive salaries and bonuses for executives and angered by corporate scandals that have taken place in an environment where boards are dominated by cronies who look out for one another at the expense of shareholders and taxpayers," said Congresswoman Waters, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. "To make corporate America more accountable, I successfully fought to break down the barriers that limit the ability of shareholders to nominate their own candidates or to submit their own proposals to the board of directors. I am pleased that now shareholders have an easier way to nominate directors and thus have a greater say in corporate governance and decision-making." The effort to open up the nominating process has the support of pension funds such as the California State Teachers' Retirement System (CalSTRS). ###
08.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) is concerned that none of the financial institutions selected to facilitate the sale of Treasury's common stock in General Motors - approximately 61 percent of GM's common stock - were minority- or women-owned businesses. The Congresswoman authored legislation to create Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at the government's financial services agencies, legislation that was included in the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act signed into law by the President. Congresswoman Waters sent the following letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner and Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman Mary Schapiro today: Dear Secretary Geithner and Chairman Schapiro, As you are aware, the Treasury Department recently announced its plans to begin to sell its share of common stock in General Motors. These holdings comprise 61 percent of GM's total common stock and the initial filing could be worth up to $100 million. Unfortunately, I am troubled by reports that of the 10 financial institutions that have been selected to put together this transaction, none of them are minority- or women-owned businesses. A major undertaking of this nature demands the inclusion of a diverse group of investment and banking companies. I am disappointed that the Treasury has failed to include any of the qualified minority- and women-owned businesses that applied to be a part of this historic effort. In addition, given the fact that these are taxpayer funds, I would expect an effort to have been made to ensure that a diverse group of firms were given the opportunity to participate. Nevertheless, according to an August 19, 2010 article in the Wall Street Journal, it appears that the same financial institutions—Morgan Stanley, J.P. Morgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Citigroup, and Goldman Sachs—have been chosen to structure this offering, leaving minority- and women-owned businesses out in the cold.(1) The exclusion of minority- and women-owned firms is even more troubling in light of the fact that non-U.S. institutions—Barclays Capital, Credit Suisse Group, Deutsche Bank, RBC Capital Markets, and UBS—have also been given underwriting responsibilities.(2) Reconcentrating assets in these same financial institutions contradicts the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-203), which included provisions to address financial institutions that are "too big to fail." This lack of inclusion of women and minorities is why I drafted Section 342 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which calls for the establishment of Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at all of the government's financial services agencies, including the Treasury and the SEC. One of the duties of the Directors of these Offices is to advise the agency administrator on the impacts of agency policies and programs on minority- and women-owned businesses. Furthermore, the law also calls for the Director to develop standards to increase the participation of minority- and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of the agency. While I am aware that neither of your agencies has yet to establish Offices, I know that had a Director been in place he or she would have advised you that by limiting the playing field to a handful of large banks that minority- and women-owned businesses would be harmed. In this sense the exclusion of minority- and women-owned firms from this transaction is contrary to the spirit of Section 342. The Treasury should have the ability to influence this transaction at all levels and should demand diversity and diversification of and among participating institutions. Therefore, given the number of financial institutions involved in this deal and the fact that these institutions have agreed to a reduced fee in order to participate in the transaction, I see no reason why the number of participating institutions cannot be expanded to include minority- and women-owned businesses. I hope that you will take immediate steps to correct this oversight. Please contact me or Charla Ouertatani of my staff at 202-225-2201 with any questions about this letter. Sincerely, /s/ Maxine Waters Member of Congress (1) Basar, Shanny, "And Now, Here Is the Starting Lineup of Banks Handling the GM IPO," Deal Journal, Wall Street Journal, August 19, 2010. https://blogs.wsj.com/deals/2010/08/19/and-now-here-is-the-starting-lineup-of-banks-handling-the-gm-ipo/ (2) Ibid. ###
08.19.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), founder of the Out of Iraq Caucus, issued the following statement: "As founder of the Out of Iraq Caucus of the United States Congress, I salute President Obama and the Administration for living up to the commitment to wind down the war in Iraq. When I joined with Reps. Barbara Lee (D-CA) and Lynn Woolsey (D-CA) and other members of Congress to organize the Out of Iraq Caucus, we were concerned that the reasons for the U.S. to engage in war in Iraq were not sound and further that the war would place many young American men and women in our armed forces at great risk while also depleting resources needed for our nation's domestic agenda. I salute our troops and military families for the sacrifices they have made honoring our country's call to serve in this war. I am pleased that American soldiers have been transitioned out of Iraq and hope that they return home soon. However, I am still concerned about the remaining 50,000 troops left behind in Iraq. Although their mission has changed to focus on training Iraqi security forces, American troops will still be in a combat zone and in harm's way, especially in light of the ongoing insurgent violence and flawed political processes that continue to impede the country's democratic transition. So this action to begin removing our troops from Iraq is welcome, but it is only a first step. As the war continues to wind down, we must reexamine our approach to national security and how we view our nation's role in promoting international peace. If we are to be leaders in the world, we must always use our best judgment to determine when and how we engage other nations and other actors – particularly if we are considering actions that go beyond diplomacy. I know I speak for many of my colleagues and fellow Americans when I say we look forward to a total end to war in Iraq and Afghanistan, and while we are always prepared to meet the challenges of keeping our nation safe and secure, we value the lives of our young men and women in uniform who bear the brunt of the responsibility for our decisions. My thoughts and prayers remain with the families of the more than 4,415 brave men and women who lost their lives in the seven years we occupied Iraq. I believe their legacy and heroism will live on in history and with the servicemembers who fought alongside them." ###
08.17.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement after T-Mobile ended its plans to build a cellular tower on El Manor Avenue in Westchester, a community in her district: "I am proud to have worked with residents of the neighborhood off of El Manor Avenue, area businesses and UWFACT (United Westchester Families Against Cellular Tower) to achieve this victory. I thank all in the community who have written, called and emailed my office and T-Mobile regarding this issue, and I especially must acknowledge the Yip family for raising awareness of this issue. We succeeded in demonstrating to T-Mobile the extent of neighborhood opposition to a cell phone tower in this residential neighborhood, and it got the message loud and clear." ###
08.17.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, responded to the crisis in East Point, Georgia, where 62 individuals were injured as 30,000 people gathered to apply for subsidized housing last week. According to news reports, crowds began gathering in East Point, a city on the outskirts of Atlanta, as early as Monday for the applications. Initially, only a third of the individuals that ultimately waited in line to apply for the Section 8 voucher program were expected. Remarkably, the 30,000 individuals in line represented nearly three-fourths of the population of East Point. Desperate for housing assistance, individuals began panicking and pushing the overcrowded application line. "As I understand it, individuals – including children and the elderly – waited outside in the Georgia heat for two days, in some cases, in order to secure crucial assistance to help keep their families from becoming homeless," Congresswoman Waters said. "I think this incident goes to show just how harmful this economic crisis has been on families in need of affordable housing," the Congresswoman added. There is tremendous unmet need for affordable housing, particularly during this recession. Most waiting lists for public housing and Section 8 voucher assistance include the names of thousands of individuals and are closed to new applicants. At the time that East Point opened its list, it had been closed since 2002. "The City of Atlanta, which borders East Point, recently demolished all of its public housing under the Hope VI program and Section 18. When they started to rebuild under Hope VI, they significantly reduced the number of hard units for low-income people. This extremely destructive public policy has led to a shortage of affordable housing in the area and highlights the need for one-for-one replacement, something I've long championed," said Congresswoman Waters. Moreover, the housing crisis for families nationwide appears to be worsening, with a report released by the Department of Housing and Urban Development in June showing that family homelessness had increased by 7 percent over the last year, on top of a 9 percent increase from the previous year. Congresswoman Waters has dedicated her career to addressing the need for affordable housing. Recently, the Financial Services Committee passed the Congresswoman's bill, the Public Housing Reinvestment and Tenant Protection Act (H.R. 5814), to provide for the revitalization of distressed public housing and respond to the loss of nearly 200,000 public housing units since 1995. Among other provisions, H.R. 5814 provides that any demolished or disposed public housing units would need to be replaced on a one-for-one basis, while also providing that qualified residents are allowed to return to rebuilt units. The bill also provides housing authorities with the financial tools they need to rehabilitate and rebuild public housing. Additionally, last year, the Committee passed the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (H.R. 3045), authored by Congresswoman Waters, which would stabilize and simplify the Section 8 voucher program and authorize 150,000 new vouchers for low-income individuals and families. "Finding affordable housing shouldn't be like winning the lottery. We need enough vouchers and public housing units, through effective public policy, to help all of our nation's most vulnerable households," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
08.17.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) visited Plaquemines Parish last week to speak with some of the black oystermen who operate out of Pointe a la Hache, LA. Along with the president of the local black oystermen, Mr. Byron Encalade, Congresswoman Waters held a listening session with some oystermen who have been economically harmed by the oil spill. Congresswoman Waters assured them that they had her ear, encouraged them to seek economic justice and equality through the claims process, and promised that she would take their stories back to Washington and fight for their rights. "There are no other employment opportunities for the fishermen of Pointe a la Hache, and their children and families will not have a good shot at economic survival unless they are treated fairly by BP and their contractors, who are responsible for the destruction of their environment and their livelihood," said Congresswoman Waters. "Some of the stories I have heard today – like local fishermen with able boats being passed over for cleanup work by BP, and people whose economic way of life has been completely altered not of their own doing – are heartbreaking. I look forward to following up with Kenneth Feinberg, who is overseeing the claims process, and some of my colleagues working on these issues so that economic justice is swift and fair for the hard-working people of the Gulf Coast." Congresswoman Waters continued, "I have long been an advocate for the people of the Gulf Coast, on issues ranging from affordability and availability of housing to clean up after Hurricane Katrina to the ongoing fallout for the fishermen, oystermen, small business owners and residents from the recently-capped oil spill. I look forward to continuing my advocacy and my visits to the Gulf region." ###
08.17.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) received a standing ovation at the National Bar Association's 85th Annual Convention and Exhibits in New Orleans last week, where she took the podium to explain her legislation creating Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion in the federal government's financial services agencies. She gave a detailed explanation of her legislation – now law as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act – and instructed all of the lawyers in attendance on how they should actively submit their resumes and seek out opportunities to lead in this historic accomplishment. Congresswoman Waters, a long-time champion of opening up opportunities for small businesses and women- and minority-owned businesses, succeeded in setting up the offices in agencies such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Treasury Department, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve, and the newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, among others. These offices, at each agency and each with a director and staff, will: • Advise the agency administrator of the impact of policies and regulations of the agency on minority- and women-owned businesses; and • Be responsible for all matters of the agency relating to diversity in management, employment and business activities, including the coordination of technical assistance. This successful legislation is one part of a strategic plan adopted by the ten Congressional Black Caucus Members of the Financial Services Committee to deal with the lack of diversity, capital, and opportunity in the national minority and women's business community. "Only 2.4 percent of all minority- and women-owned firms are in the financial services industry. These firms are routinely excluded from federal contracts. This is why I made opening up opportunities for women and minorities at our federal financial services agencies a priority," said Congresswoman Waters during her speech. After her speech, Congresswoman Waters said, "It's always a pleasure to join some of my long-time friends in the National Bar Association, and an added plus when I get to be in the great city of New Orleans." ###
08.17.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement announcing her support for the 30/10 Initiative. On Friday, members of the Congresswoman's staff attended a rally at City Hall where thousands of Angelenos turned out to support the measure and the jobs it would create in the area: "Today I formally announce my support for the 30/10 Initiative and look forward to enhanced public transportation access for the constituents of the 35th District, which I represent in Congress, and for all Angelenos. 30/10 will bring much needed, good paying jobs to L.A. while augmenting the necessary infrastructure to get Angelenos to work, school, the airport and the wide variety of entertainment attractions that are found throughout the region. 30/10 will stimulate our local economy while providing a more sustainable, environmentally friendly way for all of us to get around. Specifically, I am pleased to know that 30/10 will expedite the construction and completion of the Green Line extension in my district. 30/10 would enable the LAX Green line extension to be completed in 2016 instead of 2018. I would have liked to have seen this day come sooner as we have always supported public transportation that takes travelers all the way into LAX, but I am nonetheless excited by this new timeline. You can count on my support of this initiative and future improvements of the much needed public transportation system for our region." ### About 30/10 Initiative: The concept of the 30/10 Initiative is to use the long-term revenue from the Measure R sales tax as collateral for long-term bonds and a federal loan which will allow Metro to build 12 key mass transit projects in 10 years, rather than 30. Accelerating construction of these 12 key Metro projects will result in substantial cost savings. Successful implementation of the 30/10 Initiative will also deliver immediate benefits like hundreds of thousands of jobs to improve the local economy, reduce greenhouse emissions and ease traffic congestion. The 30/10 Initiative is both an unprecedented step forward for LA County and a model of progress for the entire nation. Source: Metro.
08.13.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to President Obama today, urging him to include debt cancellation for the world's poorest countries as part of his plan to achieve the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The Congresswoman's letter was signed by 48 Members of Congress, including Rep. Barney Frank, the Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and Rep. Michael Castle, a senior Republican member of the Financial Services Committee. Many of those who signed the letter are also cosponsors of the Jubilee Act (H.R. 4405), which Congresswoman Waters introduced last year to expand debt cancellation for poor countries. The MDGs were adopted by world leaders in the year 2000 and set to be achieved by 2015. These goals include the eradication of extreme poverty, universal primary education, the empowerment of women, reductions in maternal and child mortality, efforts to combat HIV/AIDS and other diseases, environmental sustainability, and a Global Partnership for Development. The President announced his intention to develop a plan to achieve the MDGs and present it at a United Nations Summit on the MDGs next month. Many of the world's poorest countries cannot afford to invest in programs to achieve the MDGs because they are burdened with international debts. The Congresswoman's letter urges the President to expand debt cancellation programs to include additional needy and deserving low-income countries, thus allowing these countries to invest more of their resources in programs to eradicate poverty. The text of the letter follows: Dear President Obama: As you know, the global economic crisis has devastated low-income countries. The World Bank has reported that 64 million additional people have been pushed into extreme poverty, and 1.2 million children under five may die between 2009 and 2015 because of the crisis. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has reported that 27 low-income countries are in debt distress or face a high risk of debt distress. As we work to achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), we share your desire to mitigate the impact of the crisis on low-income countries. We support your efforts to exercise leadership on global poverty issues and applaud your commitment to create a plan to achieve the MDGs by the 2015 deadline. As you prepare to bring your MDG plan before the United Nations Summit on the Millennium Development Goals in September, we hope you will consider the following policy approaches. 1) Expand the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) to make eligible all of the countries that qualify for International Development Association-only (IDA-only) support from the World Bank. Debt relief is an effective means of fighting poverty in low-income countries. Resources from the MDRI helped reduce Ghana's poverty rate from 40% to 29% in less than a decade and are saving Burundi up to $50 million a year for investment in health, education, and agriculture. Therefore, expanded debt relief is an essential piece of an overall MDG plan. Over 20 of the poorest countries in the world have been left out of past debt relief initiatives – such as Lesotho, Bangladesh and Kenya. Debt relief would allow them to achieve progress towards meeting the MDGs despite the challenges posed by the economic crisis. Congressional support for debt relief was demonstrated most recently by the overwhelming bipartisan support for the cancellation of Haiti's debts following the devastating earthquake in January. As a result, your administration and Congress worked together to achieve complete cancellation of $828 million of Haiti's remaining debts. Congress is on record in support of expanding debt relief to all IDA-only countries. In the 110th Congress, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation, which expanded eligibility for debt relief to all IDA-only countries, passed the House of Representatives with a two-thirds majority. The same year, the Jubilee Act passed the Senate Foreign Relations Committee with cosponsorship from 26 Senators, including then-Senators Joseph Biden and Hillary Clinton as well as yourself. The Jubilee Act has been reintroduced in the current Congress with a strong bipartisan group of original cosponsors, and continues to gain support. We urge your administration to seek an international agreement for expanded debt cancellation, and we stand ready to work with you to implement expanded debt cancellation once such an international agreement is reached. 2) Use the voice, vote and influence of the United States at the World Bank, the IMF, and other international financial institutions to end the imposition of harmful and counterproductive conditionalities and policies. Under sustained pressure from civil society and some governments, these institutions have relaxed many of the rigid conditionalities of the past. However, counter-cyclical conditionalities that reduce spending on social services continue to be attached to loans and included in debt relief programs even during the economic crisis, and countries are being pushed to reduce stimulus spending too quickly. It is especially critical in a time of economic crisis that the United States works to ensure that conditionalities on loans and debt relief focus on transparent policy-making procedures, good governance, and effective anticorruption measures and do not require governments to implement economic policies that harm the poor. 3) Promote responsible international lending and borrowing. In the past, many countries accumulated unsustainable debt through irresponsible lending and borrowing. Changing this pattern of irresponsible lending and borrowing will promote improved local governance and ensure greater transparency and attention to human rights. Specifically, we urge your administration to support the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)'s efforts to establish a set of guidelines for responsible lending and borrowing. We also urge your administration to support efforts to curb the irresponsible actions of so-called "vulture funds" that seek to profiteer from poor country debt by buying defaulted debt at a steep discount and then litigating aggressively to collect the full amount of the debt plus interest. The upcoming Summit on the Millennium Development Goals is an important opportunity for the United States to exercise global leadership to help impoverished countries alleviate the impact of the global economic crisis and ensure that the MDGs are achieved by 2015. Debt relief for poor countries has been an excellent example of international cooperation, which has achieved impressive results over the past ten years and which should be expanded. An end to harmful conditionalities and responsible international lending and borrowing will be essential to ensuring development and preventing the emergence of debt crises in the future. We look forward to working with your administration as you work to make development assistance more effective and achieve our shared vision of prosperity for all. ###
08.13.2010	Yesterday, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to Senate leaders urging them to pass the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429) before the 111th Congress adjourns. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act was introduced by Congresswoman Waters last year and passed the House of Representatives by a voice vote under suspension of the rules. The bill is now awaiting consideration in the Senate Judiciary Committee. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act is one of several initiatives Congresswoman Waters is pursuing in the 111th Congress to expand HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. The Congresswoman also introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137) to require health insurance companies to cover routine HIV tests; urged the Appropriations Committee to increase funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was originally developed by the Congresswoman over ten years ago; and urged robust funding of President Obama's National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS), which was released by the President last month. The Congresswoman's letter was signed by 30 Members of Congress, including Rep. John Conyers, the Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Robert C. Scott, the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Crime of the House Judiciary Committee; and several other House Judiciary Committee members. The letter was addressed to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid; Senate Majority Whip Richard Durbin; and Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy. The text of the letter follows: We urge you to pass H.R. 1429, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, before the 111th Congress adjourns. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act passed the House of Representatives last year by voice vote under suspension of the rules. The bill was then referred to the Senate where it is pending in the Judiciary Committee. In January of this year, the Department of Justice reported that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons is 2.5 times the rate in the general population. The Department of Justice also reported that 1,538 federal prisoners were known to be living with HIV/AIDS at the end of 2008, and 0.8% of federal prison inmates were known to be living with HIV/AIDS in 2008. However, the actual rate of HIV/AIDS infection in federal prisons is unknown because the federal Bureau of Prisons (BOP) does not consistently test prisoners for HIV. This has to change. Last month, President Barack Obama released the National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) and an accompanying NHAS Federal Implementation Plan. The strategy focuses on the three primary goals of reducing the number of new HIV infections, increasing access to care for people living with HIV/AIDS, and reducing HIV-related health disparities. The Implementation Plan specifically calls for the BOP to expand access to HIV screening to prisoners upon entry. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the BOP to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in federal prisons. This bill requires the BOP to test all federal prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to release from prison, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. A summary of the bill is enclosed. We appreciate your willingness to consider the Stop AIDS in Prison Act in the United States Senate, and we look forward to working with you to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment and prevention throughout our society. Sincerely, Maxine Waters John Conyers Robert C. Scott Melvin L. Watt Donna Christensen Barbara Lee Jackie Speier Donna Edwards Steve Cohen Jim McDermott Sam Farr Hank Johnson Pedro Pierluisi Linda Sanchez Raúl M. Grijalva Alan Grayson Laura Richardson Danny K. Davis Sheila Jackson Lee José E. Serrano Edolphus Towns Elijah E. Cummings Lucille Roybal-Allard Jan Schakowsky Gregory W. Meeks Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. Bob Filner Carolyn Cheeks Kilpatrick Charles Rangel Dennis Kucinich ###
08.13.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) addressed the media on Friday, August 13, 2010, during a press conference regarding the ethics matter pending before the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. Congresswoman Waters delivered an opening speech, her Chief of Staff presented some key facts and concerns, and she took questions from the media. The Congresswoman's opening remarks as prepared for delivery are below: "Good morning. Thank you all for being here today, especially on a Friday during recess. The press and the public have now had an opportunity to read the Statement of Alleged Violation, and have shown a lot of interest in the ethics matter that is now pending before the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. I am indeed eager to be able to have an opportunity to present my case, and that is why I have requested that the Standards Committee schedule a hearing as soon as possible. Unfortunately, the Committee has not yet specified a date for a hearing on this matter, and given the Congressional schedule it is possible that no hearing would be held for months, even after the November elections. Such a delay is unacceptable, considering that the investigation has dragged out for almost one year. It does not provide due process, it prevents my constituents and the American public from getting answers, and it delays me from being able to respond to charges spelled out in the SAV. I am pleased that the Committee released the SAV and related documents earlier this week, as I had insisted after waving my right to have the SAV remain private until the adjudicatory hearing. I have arranged this press conference to present my facts in the case and clear up ambiguities and misinformation. I recognize the transparency that I am providing may not eliminate an adjudicatory hearing. To reiterate, I am in fact anxious to share these facts with you and the public because I have not violated any House rules. I fully disclosed all my financial information as required by House rules – and in fact went above and beyond what was required by repeatedly disclosing my and my husband's financial interests during Financial Services Committee hearings. Neither my staff nor I engaged in any improper behavior; we did not influence anyone; and we did not gain any benefit. We are here today because I believe my actions and the allegations against me are not easily understood. Today I want to be absolutely clear about one thing: This case is not just about me. This case is also about access. It's about access for those who are not heard by decision makers, whether it's having their questions answered or their concerns addressed. For the past 34 years I have served in elected office both at the state and national level, and I have made one of my top priorities opening doors and providing access for small, minority and women businesses. In fact, my advocacy and assistance in providing access for the National Bankers Association is why we're here today. The National Bankers Association consists of 103 minority banks, and I have worked with this association and the concerns of their banks for many years: • I have spoken at their conventions on many occasions; • I have participated in hearings about their issues; and • I have worked with our federal agencies on their behalf, including the Treasury Department, FDIC, and Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. My telephone call to then-Secretary of the Treasury Hank Paulson during the worst economic crisis this nation faced in 80 years was to provide access to the National Bankers Association, which was concerned about the fact that Treasury had placed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac into conservatorship. It was represented to me that many minority banks had overleveraged their capital in Fannie and Freddie, and the association wished to know whether or not their members' capital was lost or if the government was responsible for protecting the capital that they had invested in preferred stock. They had attempted to get a meeting with the Treasury Department, but had received no response. And so, they sought me out to assist them in setting up a meeting. The question, at this point, should not be why I called Secretary Paulson, but why I had to. The question, at this point, should be why a trade association representing over 100 minority banks could not get a meeting at the height of the crisis. Access. When I contacted the Treasury Secretary: • I did not suggest any solution to the problem of the National Banker's Association; • I did not ask for any favors for the National Bankers Association; • I did not ask for a meeting for any individual bank, including OneUnited Bank; • I did not suggest who would be participants in that meeting; • I did not attend that meeting; and • There was no such thing as the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) at that time. There has been a great deal of confusion over a conversation I had with Financial Services Chairman Barney Frank. The conversation I had with Chairman Frank was a conversation several weeks after this meeting had taken place and after the TARP program had been announced. OneUnited Bank was now raising questions about assistance from TARP. Because my office's assistance to the National Bankers Association was strictly to provide access for a discussion about the impact of the financial crisis on small and minority banks broadly, and because there was no TARP program at the time of the meeting, I did not wish to get involved with OneUnited Bank about any individual assistance or about the new TARP program. Because my husband had once served on the board of OneUnited Bank and still held investments there, I felt they should seek assistance from Chairman Frank, a Representative from the state where the bank was headquartered, and someone with a record of commitment to the health of minority banks. It's also important to note that no government agency or their representatives have said that I requested any special assistance or compensation for anyone or any institution, or that I influenced the TARP process in any way. There has also been a question about whether or not I instructed my staff not to get involved with OneUnited Bank and their interest in accessing TARP funds. My staff had only been involved in understanding the impact of the financial crisis on small and minority banks broadly, and assisting in setting up the meeting with the Treasury Department for, again, the National Bankers Association. I told my Chief of Staff that: • I had informed Chairman Frank about OneUnited Bank's interest; • That we were only concerned about small and minority banks broadly; • That Chairman Frank would evaluate OneUnited's issue and make a decision on how to proceed; and • Given the emails that the committee has offered as evidence, we communicated with each other clearly. So it's not just about us. It's about all those who lack access. I was honored to serve on the conference committee of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. I'm happy to say that much of the legislation I authored – access for women and minorities; rights for shareholders; a more accountable Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; and assistance for struggling and unemployed homeowners – were included in the final legislation that was signed by President Obama. I am particularly proud of the Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion that will be set up at the federal government's financial institutions such as the FDIC, the Treasury Department, the Federal Reserve, among others, to deal with the historic lack of access that minority and women individuals and institutions have had in hiring, decision-making, contracting and procurement opportunities. And over the past year, I and the nine other Congressional Black Caucus Members of the Financial Services Committee have been meeting with the National Banker's Association, the National Newspaper Publishers Association, the National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters, the National Association of Minority Auto Dealers, the National Association of Securities Professionals, and the National Bar Association, among others, discussing the plight of minority businesses, their lack of access to capital, and the lack of support from their government in banking, advertising, and consulting contracts. Access is key to understanding the scope of this case. This case is not just about them. This case is also about fairness. The fact that the investigative subcommittee ignored or disregarded key pieces of exculpatory evidence crucial to my case is extremely troubling. A truly robust investigatory process would have taken all the available evidence into consideration. I believe that if that had been done, we would not be here today. Fairness is also key to understanding the scope of this case. This case is not just about that. This case is also about my constituents and the American people. I have truly been touched by the outpouring of support from my constituents in Los Angeles and from friends in places like Louisiana, Texas, Missouri, New York, Illinois, Florida – even abroad. I know the way that the American people view Congress. They hear the talk of partisanship, of power, of money, of influence. For congressional critics, it's easy to see a report of an ethics case and completely wash your hands of it all. But my constituents and supporters have seen the many inaccurate, accusatory portrayals of my work, and they know me better than that. And they've encouraged me to fight. I admit: there are some who do not believe in my philosophy or my methods. But no one should question my devotion to public service. Therefore, I am asking us all to pause for a moment, set aside our cynicism, and consider two things: • the facts of the case; and • my life's work in trying to provide access to those who have been denied. These two things will provide context for my constituents' and your judgment. My constituents demand that I stand up for the values they elected me to represent. In sum: No benefit, no improper action, no failure to disclose, no one influenced: no case. I thank you again for coming today. Now my Chief of Staff, Mikael Moore, will present to you some of the key facts in the case, and address some of our concerns with the SAV. After the presentation, I will be happy to take your questions on the SAV and answer them to the best of my ability. I will ask you to keep your questions to the SAV and my experiences with the ethics investigation and process. I will not be entertaining questions about the supposed issue of race in this matter, or recent media reports that have nothing to do with my case pending before the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct. Thank you. ### Watch video of the press conference Read Congresswoman Waters' reaction to the investigation Read Congresswoman Waters' call for the allegations to be announced, and for a date to be set for a public hearing.
08.13.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) offered the following statement today upon the discovery and identification of Mitrice Richardson: "I am deeply saddened to learn that the remains recovered in Malibu Canyon belonged to Mitrice Richardson, a young woman who had been missing for nearly a year. My heartfelt thoughts and prayers are with her mother Latice Sutton, remaining family, and friends, as they finally have the opportunity to grieve the loss of their beloved Mitrice. I also want to commend the numerous volunteers who remained steadfast and committed to learning the facts surrounding Mitrice's disappearance on September 17, 2009. While this grim discovery concludes one chapter, lingering questions remain regarding the manner in which Mitrice was released from the Malibu/Lost Hills Sheriff's Station, and the quality of the investigation that took place following her disappearance. Despite the number of searches that occurred over the past year, Mitrice's remains were discovered this week mere miles from where one eye-witness reportedly last saw her the night she mysteriously vanished. Notwithstanding today's announcement, the family will not have absolute closure until they know all the facts concerning Mitrice's detention and release. While I am pleased with the level of attention this case has garnered from the national press, I do hope they remain equally as engaged in now helping us uncover how Mitrice spent her final moments. I remain committed to ensuring that the local authorities followed proper procedures, and that no federal statutes were violated during the course of this tragic case." ###
08.13.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, welcomed the announcement today by the Obama administration that they are funding her legislation to assist struggling homeowners with $3 billion. One of the programs, the "Hardest Hit Fund", will receive $2 billion to rehabilitate foreclosed properties and place them back on the market for low- and moderate-income homeowners. California has been the biggest recipient of "Hardest Hit" funding based on the severity of the housing market decline and high unemployment. The state received $700 million in the initial round of funding and will receive another $476 million in the next round of funding. Additionally, $1 billion will fund a new program to provide emergency interest-free loans to unemployed homeowners. Eligible borrowers can qualify for loans of up to $50,000 for up to two years to keep their homes out of foreclosure. The program is based on a successful program that has helped many Pennsylvania homeowners avoid losing their homes. "Since the recession started a couple of years ago, I have emphasized the need for Congress, the Administration and other policymakers to take steps to help homeowners, prevent foreclosures and assist neighborhoods that have been most severely impacted by the nation's housing crisis," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters continued, "Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own should not have to lose their homes as well. I am encouraged that the additional funding I fought for will help homeowners and communities across the country most impacted by foreclosures and housing market declines." Congresswoman Waters secured $1 billion to fund these programs during negotiations on the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, and she received an additional $2 billion pledge from the Department of Treasury. The Wall Street reform bill also includes an additional $1 billion in funding that Congresswoman Waters sought for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program – a program she worked to create two years ago, overcoming Bush Administration opposition to do so – which enables local governments and non-profits to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned properties and sell those homes to low- and moderate-income buyers.
08.11.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) hosted a briefing this past weekend to provide an update on relief efforts in Haiti. A panel of experts discussed past progress, current needs and future plans in the country. She issued the following statement after the meeting: "I was extremely pleased to convene a briefing for an update on recovery efforts in Haiti along with hosts Pastor John J. Hunter and First Lady Denise Hunter of FAME Church in Los Angeles this past weekend, and I am encouraged that there continues to be very high interest among American citizens in the future of Haiti, demonstrated by the large turnout of people anxious to see the struggling nation succeed. Seven months after the earthquake in Haiti, over one million Haitians are living in unacceptable and deplorable conditions in tent cities in and around Port-au-Prince. The ongoing misery of the people of Haiti is partly a result of weak governance in Haiti, and partly a result of ineffective foreign aid policy by the U.S. government. American citizens who care about Haiti must work to improve oversight over the distribution of U.S. foreign aid and insist on strong democratic governance in Haiti. I led a discussion and presentation that included updates from key stakeholders who have been on the ground in Haiti and who are working to provide humanitarian assistance, support recovery efforts, and protect human rights for the Haitian people. Battalion Chief Larry Collins, who spoke on behalf of the Los Angeles County Fire Department Urban Search and Rescue Taskforce, received tremendous applause for the Taskforce's work in Haiti to save lives. I had the privilege to work with the Taskforce on the ground in Haiti during my visits, and I appreciate and honor their work. Caitlin Klevorick, speaking for the U.S. State Department, and two representatives of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) gave a limited presentation on the role that USAID is playing in the recovery efforts, and passed out literature outlining some of the agency's work in Haiti. I informed USAID's representatives that I have serious concerns about their work in Haiti. USAID could be doing a much better job distributing food to people in need, improving sanitation, ensuring security for residents of tent cities, reducing turnover among USAID personnel, increasing procurement opportunities for small businesses in Haiti, and monitoring preparations for the upcoming Haitian elections. I recently had the opportunity to meet with and question Dr. Rajiv Shah, USAID Administrator, in Washington, DC, about some of my concerns. Nicole Phillips, Staff Attorney for the Institute for Justice and Democracy in Haiti, offered a critical analysis of the weak governance plaguing the country, and made a call for on-time, democratic elections in November for the Presidency and the National Assembly. We also received a report from TransAfrica Forum, a leading US-based organization committed to the pursuit of human rights and democracy in Haiti. I have long spoken about the important role that Haiti's unique history has played in its current affairs, and I was very grateful to hear Dr. Maulana Karenga, founder of US Organization and the Kwanzaa holiday, give a passionate description of the country's history. The Haitian slaves' successful rebellion against the French – over two hundred years ago – resulted in the first republic in world history to be ruled by people of African descent. There were many Haitians in the audience who participated in the program and shared their vision for the country's future. First Lady Hunter offered church assistance to Mickelson Civil, Founder and President of Vie Water, who works on clean water projects in Haiti. Jimmy Jean-Louis, Haitian actor, activist and founder of Hollywood Unites for Haiti, made an impassioned presentation based on his recent visit to Haiti, describing the deplorable conditions in the camps and asking for continued help and support for his country. The panelists and I entertained questions from the audience, and there was a consensus that we must continue the struggle to relieve the misery in Haiti and support a new Haiti through the construction of homes, schools, businesses, health clinics and hospitals, and new and improved roads, water systems, and other infrastructure. I shall continue my advocacy on behalf of Haiti." ###
08.04.2010	Eager to present her case in response to allegations against her, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today called on the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct to schedule an adjudicatory hearing and to release to the public all documents related to her. Although the Committee recently announced it would schedule a hearing as Congresswoman Waters requested, the Committee did not determine a date for the hearing. Congresswoman Waters seeks a hearing at the earliest possible date and certainly prior to the election in November. In a letter to the Committee, she wrote, "I feel strongly that further delay in the scheduling of the hearing violates the fundamental principles of due process, denies my constituents the opportunity to evaluate this case, and harms my ability to defend my integrity." In addition, the Committee has not released the allegations against Congresswoman Waters, resulting in media reports and speculation based only on a report prepared by the controversial Office of Congressional Ethics. Congresswoman Waters has waived her right to keep the Committee's findings, known as the Statement of Alleged Violation (SAV), and related documents confidential because she wants the public to be fully informed about this matter. "In combination with the scheduling of the hearing, the release of the SAV will enable this process to take place in a timely manner and provide the transparency that the American public deserves," she wrote. "I am confident that once the Subcommittee report is released and I am able to present my case, my constituents and all Americans will understand that I have not violated any House rules." The full text of the letter Congresswoman Waters sent today to the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct follows: Dear Chairwoman Lofgren and Ranking Member Bonner: I am writing to ask that the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct schedule my adjudicatory hearing prior to the November election. I am deeply concerned by the Committee's failure to announce a date for a public hearing in its most recent press release. I feel strongly that further delay in the scheduling of the hearing violates the fundamental principles of due process, denies my constituents the opportunity to evaluate this case, and harms my ability to defend my integrity. Also, I would like to waive my procedural right and grant permission for the Committee to release the Statement of Alleged Violation (SAV) and all accompanying documents pursuant to Clause 26 (b) of the Committee's rules. In combination with the scheduling of the hearing, the release of the SAV will enable this process to take place in a timely manner and provide the transparency that the American public deserves. I am confident that once the Subcommittee report is released and I am able to present my case, my constituents and all Americans will understand that I have not violated any House rules. ###
08.03.2010	Congresswoman Waters issued the following statement in regards to the passing of Dwight Radcliff: "I am deeply saddened by the loss of my dear friend and a superb, beloved community leader, Dwight Radcliff. Everyone who knew Dwight could attest to his reputation for honesty, integrity, and his commitment to others. Dwight was well known for his leadership and advocacy on behalf of veterans, and served as the president and chief executive of the United States Veterans Initiative, commonly known as U.S. VETS. He was responsible for developing a strong support program for veterans at U.S. VETS. In addition to housing the homeless, the organization offers job training, psychological services, residential care and additional social services for veterans. Dwight and his staff were known to go down to Skid Row to identify veterans, many of whom were suffering from emotional and drug problems, and enroll them in U.S. VETS programs. And he connected veterans with other organizations in the community in ways that few people could or would. Because of Dwight's involvement, many veterans found they could use their skills and talents to assist and support programs for young people and the elderly. Originally begun in Inglewood, today U.S. VETS provides housing, meal and employment services to over 2,000 veterans each day in five states and the District of Columbia. Dwight and I worked together for many years, forming a professional and personal friendship. He came to Washington last year to testify before my Subcommittee, sharing his expertise on housing for veterans. I attended every U.S. VETS program that I could, whether on Veterans or Memorial Day or at other events. In fact, just last week I joined him at a groundbreaking ceremony in Inglewood for a new residence hall that, in conjunction with the current facility, will house over 700 homeless veterans. In order to assist organizations like U.S. VETS and my constituents who have served their country in uniform, I dedicated one of my staffers, Ms. Marti Moore, to work extensively on veterans' issues. Members of U.S. VETS always attend my town hall meetings, updating themselves on public policy and finding out how they can be a part of strengthening our nation's democracy. And I am always eager to hear from them about their ongoing activities in the community. They have always been helpful assisting my work to stem gang involvement and violence and provide services in public housing facilities like Jordan Downs. I have complete confidence that the work of U.S. VETS will go on, working in Dwight's name to fulfill their mission of ‘serving those who served.' I considered Dwight a close friend and ally. I loved him very much, and I'm going to miss him. His family and his community will miss him too, and I know that we are all going to have a difficult time coming to the realization that he is no longer with us. My thoughts and prayers are with Dwight's friends and family during this difficult time." ###
08.02.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement today: "I have not violated any House rules. Therefore, I simply will not be forced to admit to something I did not do and instead have chosen to respond to charges made by the House Committee on Standards of Official Conduct in a public hearing. Starting with the Office of Congressional Ethics (OCE) report released today, the record will clearly show that in advocating on behalf of minority banks neither my office nor I benefited in any way, engaged in improper action or influenced anyone. Additionally, the OCE acknowledges that I have fully disclosed my assets as required by House rules, even going above and beyond the requirements by disclosing my assets at several Financial Services Committee hearings. In sum, the case against me has no merit. The accusations against me stem from work I have done throughout my decades of public service as an advocate for minority communities and businesses in California and nationally. As the financial crisis was unfolding, jeopardizing the health of banks large and small, the National Bankers Association (NBA), a trade organization which represents the interests of more than 100 minority-owned banks, requested a meeting with Treasury Department officials. It is important to clarify that this meeting was requested and scheduled on behalf of the NBA, not on behalf of OneUnited Bank as has been suggested. A letter from NBA to Treasury, included in the OCE report (see page 39), dated September 6th, 2008, requesting the meeting indicates the intent of the meeting and the dire concern expressed by the association on behalf of its members. The NBA contacted Treasury directly, just as other trade associations did, to request a meeting so that its members could discuss their concerns regarding the crisis facing minority banks. I followed up on the association's request by asking then-Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson to schedule such a meeting, as did other members of Congress. Secretary Paulson recognized that the NBA's concerns about the future of minority banks were valid and arranged for a meeting. I did not attend the meeting and thus did not participate in the conversation. The OCE focuses on concerns expressed during the meeting between NBA and Treasury on behalf of a single bank. However, NBA's follow up letter, dated September 10, 2008 and also included in the OCE's report (see page 59), to Treasury reiterates the organization's concerns about the fiscal health of its members generally. Despite this evidence, the committee is arguing that I was not acting to help minority institutions and the constituents they serve but instead that I was trying to help OneUnited (in which my husband held investments) -- and that doing so violated House rules related to personally benefiting from official actions and conflict of interest. However, the suggestion that I could gain personally from one phone call made to assist the National Bankers Association in getting a meeting with the Treasury Department is not credible. Even the OCE acknowledges that the meeting resulted in no action. Although it leveled the accusation, the OCE also failed to show that I received any benefit or engaged in any "improper exercise of official influence." The OCE has drawn negative inferences where there are none and twisted facts to fit its faulty conclusions. After a lengthy investigation, the report released today only shows: No benefit, no improper action, no failure to disclose, no one influenced: no case. Although I am not convinced that the process for investigating and examining House ethics cases is fair, I welcome the opportunity to show my constituents and the American public that the accusations against me are frivolous and unfounded." ###
07.27.2010	The House Financial Services Committee today passed the Public Housing Reinvestment and Tenant Protection Act (H.R. 5814), legislation introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to preserve and revitalize the nation's public housing. "This bill preserves public housing, strengthens neighborhoods and creates jobs," said Congresswoman Waters. "The legislation would reverse decades of neglect of America's public housing units, which are home to our nation's most vulnerable populations." The public housing program provides affordable rental housing for approximately 3 million Americans in 1.2 million households. Most residents are elderly or disabled, and most are extremely low-income. Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, drafted the legislation with the help of Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA) and Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez (D-NY) following a series of hearings on public housing issues over the past two years. H.R. 5814 consists of four sections or "titles". Title I establishes the Choice Neighborhoods Initiative. Based on an Obama administration proposal, this initiative would help local governments, public housing authorities (PHAs), non-profit groups and other qualified entities revitalize neighborhoods and preserve affordable housing. "Choice Neighborhoods builds on and improves the HOPE VI program, which frankly did not give public housing residents much hope," said Congresswoman Waters. "HOPE VI does not require the one-for-one replacement of units that are demolished or removed from public housing, and the result was a loss of units. Also, many displaced residents who wanted to return to a development after it was rebuilt were screened out and denied a unit. This bill solves these problems." America has lost 200,000 public housing units since 1995. Title II would end the loss of public housing units by requiring one-for-one replacement for any demolished or disposed units. The bill addresses concerns of housing authorities by providing a limited waiver of the one-for-one requirement and providing flexibility on the types of units that can be used to replace public housing. The bill also strengthens protections for residents, including prohibiting the use of rescreening criteria to keep otherwise qualified residents from returning to public housing units. Title III provides housing authorities with the financial tools they need to rehabilitate and rebuild public housing. The bill establishes a program to provide loan guarantees for the capital fund, injecting much needed capital into the nation's deteriorating housing stock. The bill also includes provisions to allow PHAs to finance energy efficient improvements to public housing. Title IV would create job opportunities for public housing residents by establishing a training program for public housing residents to become in-home health care aides to elderly and disabled public housing residents. Congresswoman Waters said, "More than 500,000 households in public housing now include elderly or disabled residents, and this number will rise as the nation's senior population doubles in the next twenty years. According to AARP, 92 percent of people between the ages of 65 and 74 want to continue living in their homes as they age, and certainly many elderly public housing residents would prefer to stay in their homes if they can get the health care they services they need. This bill is a win-win as it would provide important health care resources as well as provide jobs for public housing residents." This proposal is based on the Together We Care Act, which was drafted by Congresswoman Velazquez and examined during a field hearing that the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee held in New York City. ###
07.22.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), an outspoken advocate for Gulf Coast residents, fishermen and businesses harmed by the oil spill, today participated in a House Judiciary Committee hearing entitled "Ensuring Justice for Victims of the Gulf Coast Oil Disaster". Congresswoman Waters is especially concerned about the plight of small communities of minority fishermen and oyster farmers who depend on the Gulf Coast's natural resources. Many of them have been unable to work since the spill. "We must ensure that these communities are considered and their interests are protected in the claims process. For generations, people like those whom I met recently on the Louisiana Gulf Coast – many of them African-American – have made a living and supported their families from shrimp and oysters, and now their wellbeing is in great jeopardy," she said. During the hearing, Congresswoman Waters asked Kenneth Feinberg, the Administrator of the Gulf Coast Claims Facility, who is responsible for processing the claims of oil spill victims and overseeing the $20 billion Gulf Coast Escrow Fund, a series of questions about the procedures for submitting and resolving claims. In response, Mr. Feinberg complimented Congresswoman Waters, saying, "As you usually do, Congresswoman, you've anticipated a question I haven't thought of yet, and I will look into it." Click here to see video of the exchange between Congresswoman Waters and Kenneth Feinberg. Congresswoman Waters also praised Mr. Feinberg, telling him, "It gives me a level of comfort that you are in a position to construct and implement this claims process. I appreciate the work that you did after 9/11 with New York, and I am looking forward to your creating the kind of protocol that will provide for a fair claims process and will compensate appropriately all those who have been harmed as a result of the oil spill." She added, "Detailed protocols must be developed and information about the claims process must be widely circulated so that the oyster farmers and fishermen understand clearly what forms of documentation will be acceptable to prove their economic losses. It is essential that Kenneth Feinberg partner with local community groups, non-profit organizations, legal aid services and law schools in the region to ensure that minority fishermen also fully understand the claims process and are able to make informed decisions." The House of Representatives today passed two bills in response to the BP oil spill that will prevent future spills and improve cleanup efforts. The Safer Oil and Natural Gas Drilling Technology Research and Development Program (H.R. 5716) will promote R & D related to technologies for accident prevention, worker safety and environmental protection. The Oil Pollution Research and Development Program Reauthorization (H.R. 2693) will spur innovation to develop new methods and technologies for oil spill cleanup. "Unfortunately, emergency responders working to clean up the BP spill have to rely on the same technologies used for the Exxon Valdez more than 20 years ago. Certainly, American innovation is capable of producing newer and better methods," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.21.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today celebrated National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day and encouraged the nation's health care workers to be tested for HIV. "Doctors, nurses, and other clinicians play a critical role in furthering the goals of the National HIV/AIDS Strategy to reduce the number of new HIV infections, increase access to care, and reduce health disparities. I urge all clinicians to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS services in their communities, and I urge all clinicians to take an HIV test and set a good example for their patients to follow," said Congresswoman Waters, who has been tested for HIV herself in order to demonstrate the ease and importance of HIV testing. Congresswoman Waters has introduced a resolution, H.Res. 1547, in honor of the third annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. A total of 24 Members of Congress cosponsored this resolution. The resolution urges physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services, and it also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. The National HIV/AIDS Strategy was released by President Barack Obama last week. Congresswoman Waters commended the President for releasing the strategy and urged that sufficient funding be provided for its implementation. "I am pleased that the President has responded to the national HIV/AIDS community's call for a national strategy to deal with this growing epidemic in our country," said Congresswoman Waters. "The continuing spread of HIV/AIDS, particularly in minority communities, requires a strong commitment to adequate funding. Hopefully, the funding issue will be addressed during follow-up efforts to implement the National HIV/AIDS Strategy." Congresswoman Waters has sponsored several other initiatives in the 111th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. Encouraging HIV screening: Congresswoman Waters introduced H.R. 2137, the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV. This bill has 46 cosponsors representing both political parties. 2. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998 to expand HIV awareness, testing, and treatment among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. The Initiative received $402.9 million in Fiscal Year 2010, and Congresswoman Waters and 56 of her colleagues have requested a record $610 million for Fiscal Year 2011 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. 3. Preventing the spread of AIDS: She introduced H.R. 1429, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. ###
07.21.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) celebrated the enactment of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, praising it as historic legislation that will protect the financial security of Americans. Congresswoman Waters was among a select group of Congressional leaders who joined President Obama today at the ceremony where he signed the bill into law. As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and a key member of the conference committee that reconciled differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation, Congresswoman Waters worked to ensure that the legislation includes a number of important provisions that she introduced and advocated for to help homeowners; empower shareholders; increase access and opportunity for minorities; and strengthen consumer protection. Congresswoman Waters said, "This historic legislation has been designed to prevent another financial crisis, to reform how Wall Street and the nation's major financial institutions operate, and to protect American consumers from predatory loans, excessive bank charges and credit card fees. Families and small businesses on Main Street in cities and towns across the country will benefit from our efforts to hold Wall Street accountable." Details about the provisions Congresswoman Waters championed can be found by clicking here. Click here to watch Congresswoman Waters speak in support of the bill and her provisions Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, argued that this comprehensive restructuring of the nation's financial system must address the housing crisis. She worked to include provisions that help homeowners through increasing funds for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, creating a program to help unemployed homeowners keep up with their mortgage payments, and reigning in attorneys engaged in loan modification scams. "Economic recovery requires solving the housing crisis and helping homeowners who have underwater mortgages and are at risk of foreclosure. Hard-working Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own should not have to lose their homes as well," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am proud that this legislation includes my provisions to protect homeowners from fraud and foreclosure so they can stay in their homes and to stabilize neighborhoods." Congresswomen Waters has introduced a national program to assist unemployed homeowners by providing them low-interest loans to help them pay their mortgages. The program is based on a successful program that has helped many Pennsylvania homeowners avoid losing their homes. The financial regulatory reform bill provides $1 billion for this purpose; the Treasury Department has committed to providing an additional $2 billion for the program. The financial regulatory reform bill also includes an additional $1 billion in funding for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program – created 2 years ago through Congresswoman Waters' efforts – which enables local governments and non-profits to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned properties and sell those homes to low- and moderate-income buyers. Congresswoman Waters authored an amendment, adopted by the House-Senate conference, to create an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion at each of the federal regulatory agencies – including the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Depository Insurance Company, among others – in order to ensure the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the work force and senior management. The offices would also increase the participation of minority-owned and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of each agency. Congresswoman Waters also drafted an amendment that was included in the final financial regulatory reform bill to give the SEC the authority to issue rules on proxy access, which will result in greater shareholder participation in Board nominations and proposals. Currently, shareholders are severely limited in their ability to nominate their own candidates or to submit their own proposals to the Board of Directors. In addition, Congresswoman Waters worked to make sure the new Consumer Financial Protection Board fully represents and protects consumers. "This legislation shows we are on the side of working families by protecting them from the greed, excessive risk and fraud perpetrated by some unscrupulous businesses," she said.
07.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) celebrated the Senate's passage today of the conference report of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The House of Representatives had passed this legislation (on June 30th) so it will now go to President Obama to be signed into law. As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and a key member of the conference committee that reconciled differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation, Congresswoman Waters worked to ensure that the legislation includes a number of important provisions that she introduced and advocated for to help homeowners; empower shareholders; increase access and opportunity for minorities; and strengthen consumer protection. Congresswoman Waters said, "This historic legislation has been designed to prevent another financial crisis, to reform how Wall Street and the nation's major financial institutions operate, and to protect American consumers from predatory loans, excessive bank charges and credit card fees. Families and small businesses on Main Street in cities and towns across the country will benefit from our efforts to hold Wall Street accountable." Details about the provisions Congresswoman Waters championed can be found here. Click here to watch Congresswoman Waters speak in support of the bill and her provisions. Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, argued that this comprehensive restructuring of the nation's financial system must address the housing crisis. She worked to include provisions that help homeowners through increasing funds for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and creating a program to help unemployed homeowners keep up with their mortgage payments; and reign in attorneys engaged in loan modification scams. "Economic recovery requires solving the housing crisis and helping homeowners who have underwater mortgages and are at risk of foreclosure. Hard-working Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own should not have to lose their homes as well," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am proud that this legislation includes my provisions to protect homeowners from fraud and foreclosure so they can stay in their homes and to stabilize neighborhoods." Congresswomen Waters has introduced a national program to assist unemployed homeowners by providing them low-interest loans to help them pay their mortgages. The program is based on a successful program that has helped many Pennsylvania homeowners avoid losing their homes. The financial regulatory reform bill provides $1 billion for this purpose; the Treasury Department has committed to providing an additional $2 billion for the program. The financial regulatory reform bill also includes an additional $1 billion in funding for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program – created 2 years ago through Congresswoman Waters' efforts – which enables local governments and non-profits to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned properties and sell those homes to low- and moderate-income buyers. Congresswoman Waters authored an amendment, adopted by the House-Senate conference, to create an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion at each of the federal regulatory agencies – including the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Depository Insurance Company, among others – in order to ensure the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the work force and senior management. The offices would also increase the participation of minority-owned and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of each agency. Congresswoman Waters also drafted an amendment that was included in the final financial regulatory reform bill to give the SEC the authority to issue rules on proxy access, which will result in greater shareholder participation in Board nominations and proposals. Currently, shareholders are severely limited in their ability to nominate their own candidates or to submit their own proposals to the Board of Directors. In addition, Congresswoman Waters worked to make sure the new Consumer Financial Protection Board fully represents and protects consumers. "This legislation shows we are on the side of working families by protecting them from the greed, excessive risk and fraud perpetrated by some unscrupulous businesses," she said.
07.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) criticized Senate Republicans today for holding up important legislation that would put Californians back to work and propel America's recovery from the worst economic recession since the Great Depression. For several months, the House of Representatives has passed a host of bills that would create jobs and stimulate the economy – all of which have been stymied in the U.S. Senate. Some of these bills include the Americans Jobs and Closing Tax Loopholes Act, the Small Business Jobs and Credit Act, the Jobs for Main Street Act, and the Disaster Relief and Summer Jobs Act. "At a time when so many Californians and Americans are either out of work or struggling to stay in their homes, pay their bills and put food on the table, Senate Republicans are stonewalling on unemployment benefits, flagrantly abandoning families who are feeling the pinch during these tough economic times," said Congresswoman Waters. "For years when Republicans were in the majority, they chipped away at important social services, launched two unfunded wars, and issued tax cuts that were never paid for, but now Republicans seem to have all of a sudden discovered fiscal discipline. Their shortsightedness and willingness to return to the failed policies of the past only help special interests. Congressional Democrats are working for the American people, acting to balance our budget and reduce our deficit while helping those hardest hit during the economic recession." While the national economy has shown slight signs of improvement recently, the current pace of job creation demonstrates that government action is needed to further stimulate our economy. Although the national unemployment rate currently stands at 9.5 percent, in California unemployment hovers at 12.4 percent. Senate Republicans have blocked legislation that would extend unemployment benefits for 260,000 Californians – 160,000 who have already exhausted their benefits and 100,000 more who have just received their last unemployment payment. Additionally, they are holding up funding for 350,000 youth jobs program and emergency assistance for needy families working in public and private sector jobs. Senate Republicans are also impeding funding for the National Housing Trust Fund, which will provide communities with funds to build, preserve and rehabilitate rental homes that are affordable for low-income families. "As Chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, I find Senate Republican opposition to properly housing low-income families particularly troubling and very offensive," said Congresswoman Waters. Other provisions being blocked by Senate Republicans would: • Provide important tax cuts to put money back in the pockets of working families; • Help restore the flow of credit to enable small businesses to expand and hire new workers by extending small business loan programs; • Expand career training programs for Americans who are looking for work; • Extend eligibility for unemployment insurance benefits for workers who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own; • Ensure that seniors, military service members and Americans with disabilities continue to have access to doctors they know and trust; and • Close tax loopholes for wealthy investment fund managers and foreign operations of multi-national companies. ###
07.15.2010	The House of Representatives today passed H.R. 5114, legislation introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) and reauthorize the program for 5 years. NFIP is the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for more than five million American homes and businesses. "Reauthorizing and improving the flood insurance program helps homeowners, businesses and communities throughout the country," said Congresswoman Waters. "This legislation restores stability to NFIP which it lacked while subject to lapses and only temporary extensions. During lapses in the flood insurance program over the past year, FEMA was not able to write new policies, renew expiring ones or increase coverage limits." H.R. 5114 makes additional improvements to the flood insurance program by phasing in actuarial rates for pre-FIRM properties – those built before the effective date of the first Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for a community. It also raises maximum coverage limits, provides notice to renters about contents insurance and establishes a Flood Insurance Advocate, similar to the Taxpayer Advocate at the Internal Revenue Service. Last month both the House and Senate passed legislation (H.R. 5569) introduced by Congresswoman Waters to extend NFIP until September 30th. This was the most recent of several short-term extensions and followed a one month lapse during which new policies were not issued. Approximately 1200 homebuyers a day were unable to close on their homes while NFIP had expired according to the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies. Flood insurance helps American families rebuild their lives after a devastating flood. The importance of flood insurance is underscored by a number of major floods which have occurred this year in various regions of the country, including in Rhode Island, Tennessee, Arkansas and Oklahoma. Currently, hurricane season has officially started in the U.S., and Texas is still recovering from Hurricane Alex. In addition, the U.S. has in recent years experienced increased flooding in areas not designated as special flood hazard areas so FEMA has been revising and updating flood insurance maps to better reflect the risk of flooding in additional areas. Many homeowners now find themselves in flood zones and required to purchase insurance. H.R. 5114 delays the implementation of new rate maps so homeowners in a neighborhood newly classified as a flood zone will not be immediately burdened with insurance costs. Congresswoman Waters said, "This legislation addresses the challenges posed to communities nationwide by the imposition of new flood maps. I saw these challenges in my home city of Los Angeles, and earlier this year, I was able to assist homeowners in the Park Mesa Heights area of Los Angeles who had been mistakenly placed in a flood zone. In this case, FEMA acted quickly to respond to new data and correct the mistake. However, there are thousands of homeowners nationwide who now find themselves in flood zones and subject to mandatory purchase requirements. H.R. 5114 will protect them." Organizations including the National Association of REALTORS, the National Association of Homebuilders, the American Insurance Association, the Property Casualty Insurers Association, and the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America support Congresswoman Waters' legislation. The House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, which Congresswoman Waters chairs, passed H.R. 5514 in April. Congresswoman Waters also presided over a subcommittee hearing in April which featured testimony from several Members of Congress with an interest in flood insurance issues. Officials from the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) – which administers the flood insurance program -- and the Government Accountability Office, real estate professionals, representatives of insurance companies, flood plain managers, and environmentalists were among the other witnesses who testified. Click here to watch the Congresswoman speak in support of her bill.Click here to watch the Congresswoman speak in opposition to Republican attempts to recommit the bill. ###
07.14.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) commended the President for his release of a national AIDS strategy and urged that sufficient funding be provided to implement the strategy. The White House released the National HIV/AIDS Strategy (NHAS) and an accompanying NHAS Federal Implementation Plan yesterday. "I am pleased that the President has responded to the national HIV/AIDS community's call for a national strategy to deal with this growing epidemic in our country, and I am encouraged that the strategy focuses on the three primary goals of reducing the number of new infections, increasing access to care for people living with HIV, and reducing HIV-related health disparities," said Congresswoman Waters. "The continuing spread of HIV/AIDS, particularly in minority communities, requires a strong commitment to adequate funding. Hopefully, the funding issue will be addressed during follow-up efforts to implement the National HIV/AIDS Strategy." Congresswoman Waters has made combating HIV/AIDS one of her top priorities in Congress and is a leading supporter of funding for HIV/AIDS programs. She works with national, state, and local community organizations and health groups to expand testing, prevention, outreach, research, treatment and care for people with HIV/AIDS. "I am well aware that many national and community groups and organizations had a hand in shaping this policy, and I am grateful to them for their hard work. I trust they will continue to stress the need for sustained and increased federal funding for this strategy. I look forward to reviewing the full details of the plan," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters introduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429), which the House of Representatives passed last year. The bill requires the Bureau of Prisons to test all inmates for HIV upon entering prison and then test them again prior to release, unless the inmate opts-out of taking the test, and requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. "My legislation, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, passed the House last year and currently awaits consideration in the Senate. I am hopeful that the President's strategy, which in part seeks to address the effects of HIV/AIDS within the prison population, will encourage the Senate to pass this legislation without delay," said Congresswoman Waters. As Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus in 1998, Congresswoman Waters created the Minority AIDS Initiative, which provides grants to community-based organizations and health care providers for HIV/AIDS testing, treatment and prevention programs serving racial and ethnic minority communities. The Initiative received $402.9 million last year, and Congresswoman Waters and 56 of her colleagues have requested a record $610 million for Fiscal Year 2011 to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. Congresswoman Waters also introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137) last year, which would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. This bill has 46 cosponsors. ###
07.08.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) continued to ask tough questions about the impact of the merger of Comcast and NBC Universal while participating in a Congressional field hearing today. The hearing, entitled "Comcast and NBC Universal: Who Benefits?", was held by the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications, Technology, and the Internet at the Everett Dirksen Federal Building in Chicago. Congresswoman Waters was named an honorary member of the Subcommittee for the field hearing, joining Chairman Rick Boucher (D-VA) and Subcommittee members Reps. Bobby Rush (D-IL) and Steve Buyer (R-IN). After the hearing Congresswoman Waters said, "I want to thank Chairman Boucher for allowing me to participate in today's hearing, which continues Congress' efforts to thoroughly and publicly discuss what amounts to the largest media merger in U.S. history. This sort of discussion is essential so everyone can understand what is at stake." "From the beginning of this process, I have made clear my concerns about the track records of both Comcast and NBC when it comes to diversity in front of and behind the camera. Although the diversity plans recently put forth by these companies were good first steps, I sincerely believe that without the concerns raised by myself, some of my colleagues and consumer and media rights groups, they would not exist. We must ensure that Comcast and NBC mean what they say and follow up on their words with action to ensure that minorities and women have a substantial role in programming, management, ownership and advertising. Frankly, we have to be vigilant in our efforts moving forward because these companies' diversity records are totally unacceptable. One only needs to look at the numbers to ascertain that African Americans and other minorities are practically nonexistent in leadership and decision-making roles at Comcast and NBC Universal." Congresswoman Waters continued, "I have also been concerned with the regulatory process this merger has faced and have called for the Federal Communications Commission to enable great public participation. The FCC has scheduled a public meeting on the merger for next week in Chicago, and I would like the FCC to hold more public hearings around the country so that the American people get a better idea of the size, scope and implications of this merger. Additional Congressional hearings might also be helpful for increasing understanding of the merger's many facets and for preserving competition, creating opportunities, and ensuring consumers will have access to alternative sources of news and entertainment." Congresswoman Waters has led Congressional efforts to promote public accountability in the Comcast-NBC merger and access to information. She successfully pressured the FCC to extend the public comment period on the merger by 45 days and was joined by 68 of her colleagues in pressing the FCC to conduct public hearings; two FCC Commissioners have since signaled their support for such hearings. Congresswoman Waters also recently hosted the Judiciary Committee, of which she is a senior member, in Los Angeles for the first field hearing to analyze the merger. Witnesses who participated in today's field hearing included Samuel R. DeSimone, Jr., general counsel, EarthLink, Inc.; Shirley Franklin, executive senior adviser, Alliance for Digital Equality; Will Griffin, president and CEO, Hip Hop On Demand; Paula Madison, executive vice president and chief diversity officer, NBC Universal; and Joseph W. Waz, Jr., senior vice president for external affairs and public policy counsel, Comcast Corporation. Rev. Jesse Jackson, founder and president, Rainbow PUSH Coalition, Inc. submitted testimony but was unable to testify. Comcast chose not to participate in the previous field hearing on the merger held in Los Angeles. Congresswoman Waters' opening statement can be read here. Testimony from today's witnesses can be read here. ###
07.01.2010	The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection legislation passed by the House today includes a number of provisions introduced and championed by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to empower shareholders. "Shareholders deserve greater representation on the boards of companies they have investments in – and more of a voice in how the businesses are run – so proxy access is of great importance," said Congresswoman Waters. "In addition, investors should have an opportunity to pursue restitution from entities that engage in or facilitate fraud. I hope that the GAO study is not a way to delay dealing with this problem, but rather to clearly document it further and to outline decisive action that shareholders can take against aiders and abettors of fraud." Empowering Shareholders and Preventing Conflict of Interest Empowering Shareholders by Allowing Proxy Access: Recent corporate scandals – coupled with skyrocketing executive compensation packages – highlight the need for shareholders to have more of a say in how the companies in which they have invested are run and by whom. Currently, shareholders are severely limited in their ability to nominate their own candidates or to submit their own proposals to the Board of Directors. Congresswoman Waters helped draft an amendment that was included in the final financial regulatory reform bill to give the SEC the authority to issue rules on proxy access, which will result in greater shareholder participation in Board nominations and proposals. Preventing Conflict of Interest: Credit rating agencies are supposed to provide objective, independent assessments of the creditworthiness of financial instruments. However, during the housing boom, the top credit rating agencies – Standard & Poor, Moody's, and Fitch – caved to pressure from bond and securities issuers and provided overinflated, triple-A ratings to $855 billion worth of subprime mortgage-backed securities, while pulling in enormous profits for these ratings. Congresswoman Waters introduced an amendment that was included in the final financial regulatory reform bill to prohibit the compensation of the Board of Directors of credit rating agencies from being linked to the business performance of the firm, ensuring that the Board will act independently of the company's business interests and will provide objective reporting to the SEC. Empowering Shareholders Who Have Been Victimized by Securities Fraud: Corporations and individuals who carry out large fraudulent schemes often rely on assistance from others; however, a Supreme Court ruling in 2008 in the Stoneridge case effectively allows secondary actors who aid and abet in securities fraud cases to escape liability. Congresswoman Waters introduced an amendment to hold those who cheat investors accountable. It would restore the right of shareholders who have been victimized to pursue restitution from secondary actors who aid and abet in securities fraud cases. The House conferees approved her amendment but the Senate conferees made a counteroffer, which is included in the final regulatory reform bill, to have the Government Accountability Office study the merits of the proposal. "This legislation has been designed to prevent another financial crisis, to reform how Wall Street and the nation's major financial institutions operate, and to protect American consumers from predatory loans, excessive bank charges and credit card fees. Families and small businesses on Main Street in cities and towns across the country will benefit from our efforts to hold Wall Street accountable," the Congresswoman said. Congresswoman Waters served on the House-Senate conference committee that crafted the conference report by reconciling differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. She negotiated with her colleagues in the House and Senate, among both Democrats and Republicans, to include these provisions and others in support of the following priorities: • Helping Homeowners • Strengthening Consumer Financial Protection • Increasing Access and Opportunity for Minorities The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act protects savings and investments of American families and small businesses by making the financial system more transparent and accountable, closing loopholes that big banks have exploited, and ending taxpayer-funded bailouts of Wall Street firms who made reckless decisions. To learn more about this legislation, click here. ###
07.01.2010	The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection legislation passed by the House includes a number of provisions introduced and championed by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to increase access and opportunities for minorities and women. "Many industries lack the inclusion and participation of people of color and women, perhaps none more egregiously than the financial services sector," said Congresswoman Waters. "I wrote this legislation to make sure that federal financial regulatory agencies ensure diversity in their hiring and promotion, as well as in their contracting, so that competent and qualified minorities and women and minority-, women- and small-businesses have a seat at the table. Congresswoman Waters continued, "Since minorities were preyed upon by unscrupulous lenders and other financial actors and are at higher risk when the economy takes a down turn, I am pleased that my legislation to ensure access to affordable, safe insurance products and to study the impact of wind down on underserved communities is included in the legislation that passed the House today." Increasing Access and Opportunity for Minorities The historic lack of racial, ethnic and gender diversity in the federal financial services agencies is well known and documented. Expanding opportunities for female and minority professionals is the right thing to do, not only out of fairness but also to best serve the needs of our diverse population. Additionally, predatory lenders deliberately and systematically preyed upon minority and low-income individuals and helped cause this economic crisis. Implementing safeguards to ensure fair access, treatment and regulations for all is important to stabilize America's financial system and economy. Office of Minority and Women Inclusion: Women- and minority-owned firms were largely overlooked for the contracting opportunities made available by the government's historic intervention at banks and other financial institutions. Congresswoman Waters authored an amendment, adopted by the House-Senate conference, to create Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at each of the federal regulatory agencies – including the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Depository Insurance Company, among others – in order to ensure the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the work force and senior management. The offices would also increase the participation of minority-owned and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of each agency. Protecting Minority Communities when a Financial Institution Fails: The final conference committee report includes a provision to wind down failing financial institutions that pose a risk to the economy. Congresswoman Waters wrote legislation that would require the appropriate federal regulatory agency to consider the economic impact of the default of the failing institution on minority and low-income communities, and to take steps to avoid or mitigate the potential adverse effects on these communities prior to winding down the financial institution. Ensuring Minority Access to Affordable Insurance Products: Minority and low-income communities were targeted by predatory lenders and have felt the impact of the recession severely – particularly during the meltdown of the subprime mortgage industry and the subsequent burst of the housing bubble. The House-Senate conference created a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) at the Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry, including practices that create systemic risk. Congresswoman Waters wrote legislation to task the FIO with monitoring the extent to which underserved communities, and minority and low-income persons, have access to affordable insurance products. "This legislation has been designed to prevent another financial crisis, to reform how Wall Street and the nation's major financial institutions operate, and to protect American consumers from predatory loans, excessive bank charges and credit card fees. Families and small businesses on Main Street in cities and towns across the country will benefit from our efforts to hold Wall Street accountable," the Congresswoman said. Congresswoman Waters served on the House-Senate conference committee that crafted the conference report by reconciling differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. She negotiated with her colleagues, among both Democrats and Republicans, to include these provisions and others in support of the following priorities: • Helping Homeowners • Empowering Shareholders and Preventing Conflict of Interest • Strengthening Consumer Financial Protection The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act protects savings and investments of American families and small businesses by making the financial system more transparent and accountable, closing loopholes that big banks have exploited, and ending taxpayer-funded bailouts of Wall Street firms who made reckless decisions. To learn more about this legislation, click here. ###
07.01.2010	The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection legislation passed by the House includes a number of provisions introduced and championed by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to help homeowners. "Economic recovery requires solving the housing crisis and helping homeowners who have underwater mortgages and are at risk of foreclosure. Hard-working Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own should not have to lose their homes as well," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am proud that this legislation includes my provisions to protect homeowners from fraud and foreclosure so they can stay in their homes and to stabilize neighborhoods." Helping Homeowners Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, argued that this comprehensive restructuring of the nation's financial system must address the housing crisis. She worked to include provisions that help homeowners through increasing funds for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and creating a program to help unemployed homeowners keep up with their mortgage payments; make loan modifications mandatory; and reign in attorneys engaged in loan modification scams. Help for Unemployed Homeowners: While the first wave of foreclosures was driven by subprime and predatory loans, current foreclosures are increasingly being driven by unemployment. Congresswomen Waters has introduced a national program to assist unemployed homeowners by providing them low-interest loans to help them pay their mortgages. The program is based on a successful program that has helped many Pennsylvania homeowners avoid losing their homes. The financial regulatory reform bill will provide $1 billion for this purpose; an additional $1 billion for the program will be made available from unused TARP funds. Neighborhood Stabilization Program: This program – created 2 years ago through Congresswoman Waters' efforts – enables local governments and non-profits to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned properties and sell those homes to low- and moderate-income buyers. NSP has made significant investments into communities nationwide, and the need for NSP funding is growing. The financial regulatory reform bill includes an additional $1 billion in funding for NSP. Protect Homeowners from Scams: Congresswoman Waters worked with Americans for Financial Reform and the American Bar Association to include language in the final financial regulatory reform bill that would regulate attorneys providing financial services or products, such as loan modification and debt settlement services, to be regulated under the newly-created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Unscrupulous private loan modification companies are partnering with so-called "foreclosure consultants" to prey upon vulnerable homeowners promising to help save their homes from foreclosure. They either charge an excessive fee for services that can be obtained for free from a qualified nonprofit counseling agency, or they deliver little or nothing for the money received from a desperate homeowner. These businesses are able to charge steep upfront fees because certain attorneys lend their names to the businesses. Congresswoman Waters' efforts will help bring an end to these types of deceptive practices, by requiring all attorneys providing a financial service or product to be subject to the same CFPB registration and reporting standards as other non-depository financial service providers. "This legislation has been designed to prevent another financial crisis, to reform how Wall Street and the nation's major financial institutions operate, and to protect American consumers from predatory loans, excessive bank charges and credit card fees. Families and small businesses on Main Street in cities and towns across the country will benefit from our efforts to hold Wall Street accountable," the Congresswoman said. Congresswoman Waters served on the House-Senate conference committee that crafted the conference report by reconciling differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. She negotiated with her colleagues in the House and Senate, among both Democrats and Republicans, to include these provisions and others in support of the following priorities: • Empowering Shareholders and Preventing Conflict of Interest • Strengthening Consumer Financial Protection • Increasing Access and Opportunity for Minorities The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act protects savings and investments of American families and small businesses by making the financial system more transparent and accountable, closing loopholes that big banks have exploited, and ending taxpayer-funded bailouts of Wall Street firms who made reckless decisions. To learn more about this legislation, click here. ###
07.01.2010	The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection legislation passed by the House includes a number of provisions introduced and championed by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to strengthen consumer protection. "This legislation shows we are on the side of working families by protecting them from the greed, excessive risk and fraud," said Congresswoman Waters. "I believe that this legislation, with my amendments that advocate for consumers and students, will make financial information accessible and understandable so that all consumers can make informed decisions, knowing that regulations are in place – and will be enforced – to look out for their best interests." Strengthening Consumer Financial Protection The legislation creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Board (CPFB) that will have the power to regulate the activities of banks, credit card companies, payday lenders and other institutions that provide financial services to consumers. Congresswoman Waters worked to make sure the CPFB fully represents and protects consumers. Representing the Interests of Consumers: Congresswoman Waters strengthened the CFPB by adding an expert in consumer protection to its Advisory Board. Having someone who has specific experience representing the interests of consumers serve on the Advisory Board provides an important check to the interests of big banks and financial institutions. Protecting Students from Unscrupulous Lenders: Far too many proprietary schools have been ripping off students across the country. Many of these schools are highly profitable because they receive significant amounts of federal student loan money; schools can qualify to receive as much as 90 percent of what students pay from Pell grants if 10 percent of their loan funding comes from private sources. The private loans these schools make to their students have extremely high interest rates, kickbacks and fraudulent signatures. In fact, 23 percent of students default on these loans compared to the default rates of 6.5 percent at private non-profit schools and 9.5 percent at public universities. To help protect young students from unscrupulous lenders, Congresswoman Waters worked to include a provision in the final financial regulatory reform bill that would allow the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to regulate all proprietary institutions and other private student lenders. "This legislation has been designed to prevent another financial crisis, to reform how Wall Street and the nation's major financial institutions operate, and to protect American consumers from predatory loans, excessive bank charges and credit card fees. Families and small businesses on Main Street in cities and towns across the country will benefit from our efforts to hold Wall Street accountable," the Congresswoman said. Congresswoman Waters served on the House-Senate conference committee that reconciled differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. She negotiated with her colleagues, among both Democrats and Republicans, to include these provisions and others in support of the following priorities: • Helping Homeowners • Empowering Shareholders and Preventing Conflict of Interest • Increasing Access and Opportunity for Minorities The Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act protects savings and investments of American families and small businesses by making the financial system more transparent and accountable, closing loopholes that big banks have exploited, and ending taxpayer-funded bailouts of Wall Street firms who made reckless decisions. To learn more about this legislation, click here. ###
07.01.2010	Before leaving Washington for the July 4th holiday, the Senate passed legislation (H.R. 5569) introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) until September 30th. The House of Representatives had already passed H.R. 5569 last week so it can be enacted now, having been passed by both the House and Senate, once signed by the President. NFIP is the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. Congress has passed several short-term extensions of NFIP this year, but it lapsed on June 1st. However, H.R. 5569 would be retroactive to May 31st. "I am pleased that both the House and Senate have passed my legislation to extend the flood insurance program. This extension is important because no new flood insurance policies could be issued while the program expired, which left homeowners and prospective homebuyers in flood areas unable to buy insurance," said Congresswoman Waters. Approximately 1200 homebuyers a day were unable to close on their homes during the lapse in the NFIP according to the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies. Congresswoman Waters, chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, drafted a legislative reform package (H.R. 5114) that reauthorizes NFIP for 5 years. The Financial Services Committee passed her bill in April, and it currently awaits consideration by the full House. ###
06.30.2010	After the House of Representatives passed the conference report of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act tonight, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) commented on the significance of this comprehensive legislation and highlighted key provisions that she introduced and advocated for as a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and a key member of the conference committee that reconciled differences between House and Senate versions of the legislation. The legislation passed by the House tonight includes a number of provisions introduced and championed by Congresswoman Waters. She negotiated with her colleagues in the House and Senate, among both Democrats and Republicans, to include provisions in support of the following priorities: • Helping Homeowners • Empowering Shareholders and Preventing Conflict of Interest • Increasing Access and Opportunity for Minorities • Strengthening Consumer Financial Protection Click here to watch Congresswoman Waters speak in support of the bill and her provisions Helping Homeowners Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, argued that this comprehensive restructuring of the nation's financial system must address the housing crisis. She worked to include provisions that help homeowners through increasing funds for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and creating a program to help unemployed homeowners keep up with their mortgage payments; and reign in attorneys engaged in loan modification scams. "Economic recovery requires solving the housing crisis and helping homeowners who have underwater mortgages and are at risk of foreclosure. Hard-working Americans who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own should not have to lose their homes as well," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am proud that this legislation includes my provisions to protect homeowners from fraud and foreclosure so they can stay in their homes and to stabilize neighborhoods." Help for Unemployed Homeowners: While the first wave of foreclosures was driven by subprime and predatory loans, current foreclosures are increasingly being driven by unemployment. Congresswomen Waters has introduced a national program to assist unemployed homeowners by providing them low-interest loans to help them pay their mortgages. The program is based on a successful program that has helped many Pennsylvania homeowners avoid losing their homes. The financial regulatory reform bill will provide $1 billion for this purpose; the Treasury Department has committed to providing an additional $2 billion for the program. Neighborhood Stabilization Program: This program – created 2 years ago through Congresswoman Waters' efforts – enables local governments and non-profits to purchase and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned properties and sell those homes to low- and moderate-income buyers. NSP has made significant investments into communities nationwide, and the need for NSP funding is growing. The financial regulatory reform bill includes an additional $1 billion in funding for NSP. Protect Homeowners from Scams: Congresswoman Waters worked with Americans for Financial Reform and the American Bar Association to include language in the final financial regulatory reform bill that would regulate attorneys providing financial services or products, such as loan modification and debt settlement services, to be regulated under the newly-created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Unscrupulous private loan modification companies are partnering with so-called "foreclosure consultants" to prey upon vulnerable homeowners promising to help save their homes from foreclosure. They either charge an excessive fee for services that can be obtained for free from a qualified nonprofit counseling agency, or they deliver little or nothing for the money received from a desperate homeowner. These businesses are able to charge steep upfront fees because certain attorneys lend their names to the businesses. Congresswoman Waters' efforts will help bring an end to these types of deceptive practices, by requiring all attorneys providing a financial service or product to be subject to the same CFPB registration and reporting standards as other non-depository financial service providers. Empowering Shareholders and Preventing Conflict of Interest "Shareholders deserve greater representation on the boards of companies they have investments in – and more of a voice in how the businesses are run – so proxy access is of great importance," said Congresswoman Waters. "In addition, investors should have an opportunity to pursue restitution from entities that engage in or facilitate fraud. I hope that the GAO study is not a way to delay dealing with this problem, but rather to clearly document it further and to outline decisive action that shareholders can take against aiders and abettors of fraud." Empowering Shareholders by Allowing Proxy Access: Recent corporate scandals – coupled with skyrocketing executive compensation packages – highlight the need for shareholders to have more of a say in how the companies in which they have invested are run and by whom. Currently, shareholders are severely limited in their ability to nominate their own candidates or to submit their own proposals to the Board of Directors. Congresswoman Waters drafted an amendment that was included in the final financial regulatory reform bill to give the SEC the authority to issue rules on proxy access, which will result in greater shareholder participation in Board nominations and proposals. Preventing Conflict of Interest: Credit rating agencies are supposed to provide objective, independent assessments of the creditworthiness of financial instruments. However, during the housing boom, the top credit rating agencies – Standard & Poor, Moody's, and Fitch – caved to pressure from bond and securities issuers and provided overinflated, triple-A ratings to $855 billion worth of subprime mortgage-backed securities, while pulling in enormous profits for these ratings. Congresswoman Waters introduced an amendment that was included in the final financial regulatory reform bill to prohibit the compensation of the Board of Directors of credit rating agencies from being linked to the business performance of the firm, ensuring that the Board will act independently of the company's business interests and will provide objective reporting to the SEC. Empowering Shareholders Who Have Been Victimized by Securities Fraud: Corporations and individuals who carry out large fraudulent schemes often rely on assistance from others; however, a Supreme Court ruling in 2008 in the Stoneridge case effectively allows secondary actors who aid and abet in securities fraud cases to escape liability. Congresswoman Waters introduced an amendment to hold those who cheat investors accountable. It would restore the right of shareholders who have been victimized to pursue restitution from secondary actors who aid and abet in securities fraud cases. The House conferees approved her amendment but the Senate conferees made a counteroffer, which is included in the final regulatory reform bill, to have the Government Accountability Office study the merits of the proposal. Increasing Access and Opportunity for Minorities The historic lack of racial, ethnic and gender diversity in the federal financial services agencies is well known and documented. Expanding opportunities for female and minority professionals is the right thing to do, not only out of fairness but also to best serve the needs of our diverse population. Additionally, predatory lenders deliberately and systematically preyed upon minority and low-income individuals and helped cause this economic crisis. Implementing safeguards to ensure fair access, treatment and regulations for all is important to stabilize America's financial system and economy. "Many industries lack the inclusion and participation of people of color and women, perhaps none more egregiously than the financial services sector," said Congresswoman Waters. "I wrote this legislation to make sure that federal financial regulatory agencies ensure diversity in their hiring and promotion, as well as in their contracting, so that competent and qualified minority and women professionals and small, minority- and women-owned businesses have a seat at the table. Congresswoman Waters continued, "Since minorities were preyed upon by unscrupulous lenders and other financial actors and are at higher risk when the economy takes a down turn, I am pleased that my legislation to ensure access to affordable, safe insurance products and to study the impact of wind down on underserved communities is included in the legislation that passed the House today." Office of Minority and Women Inclusion: Women- and minority-owned firms were largely overlooked for the contracting opportunities made available by the government's historic intervention at banks and other financial institutions. Congresswoman Waters authored an amendment, adopted by the House-Senate conference, to create Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at each of the federal regulatory agencies – including the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve and the Federal Depository Insurance Company, among others – in order to ensure the racial, ethnic and gender diversity of the work force and senior management. The offices would also increase the participation of minority-owned and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts of each agency. Protecting Minority Communities when a Financial Institution Fails: The final conference committee report includes a provision to wind down failing financial institutions that pose a risk to the economy. Congresswoman Waters wrote legislation that would require the appropriate federal regulatory agency to consider the economic impact of the default of the failing institution on minority and low-income communities, and to take steps to avoid or mitigate the potential adverse effects on these communities prior to winding down the financial institution. Ensuring Minority Access to Affordable Insurance Products: Minority and low-income communities were targeted by predatory lenders and have felt the impact of the recession severely – particularly during the meltdown of the subprime mortgage industry and the subsequent burst of the housing bubble. The House-Senate conference created a Federal Insurance Office (FIO) at the Treasury Department to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry, including practices that create systemic risk. Congresswoman Waters wrote legislation to task the FIO with monitoring the extent to which underserved communities, and minority and low-income persons, have access to affordable insurance products. Strengthening Consumer Financial Protection The legislation creates a new Consumer Financial Protection Board (CPFB) that will have the power to regulate the activities of banks, credit card companies, payday lenders and other institutions that provide financial services to consumers. Congresswoman Waters worked to make sure the CPFB fully represents and protects consumers. "This legislation shows we are on the side of working families by protecting them from the greed, excessive risk and fraud perpetrated by some unscrupulous businesses," said Congresswoman Waters. "I believe that this legislation, with my amendments that advocate for consumers and students, will make financial information accessible and understandable so that all consumers can make informed decisions, knowing that regulations are in place – and will be enforced – to look out for their best interests." Representing the Interests of Consumers: Congresswoman Waters strengthened the CFPB by adding an expert in consumer protection to its Advisory Board. Having someone who has specific experience representing the interests of consumers serve on the Advisory Board provides an important check to the interests of big banks and financial institutions. Protecting Students from Unscrupulous Lenders: Far too many proprietary schools have been ripping off students across the country. Many of these schools are highly profitable because they receive significant amounts of federal student loan money; schools can qualify to receive as much as 90 percent of what students pay from Pell grants if 10 percent of their loan funding comes from private sources. The private loans these schools make to their students have extremely high interest rates, kickbacks and fraudulent signatures. In fact, 23 percent of students default on these loans compared to the default rates of 6.5 percent at private non-profit schools and 9.5 percent at public universities. To help protect young students from unscrupulous lenders, Congresswoman Waters worked to include a provision in the final financial regulatory reform bill that would allow the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to regulate all proprietary institutions and other private student lenders. Summarizing the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Congresswoman Waters said, "This historic legislation has been designed to prevent another financial crisis, to reform how Wall Street and the nation's major financial institutions operate, and to protect American consumers from predatory loans, excessive bank charges and credit card fees. Families and small businesses on Main Street in cities and towns across the country will benefit from our efforts to hold Wall Street accountable." ###
06.28.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement upon learning of the death of Senator Robert Byrd (D-WV): "I was very saddened to learn of the passing of Senator Robert Byrd, a mainstay in the U.S. Congress for almost 60 years. With a clear, scholarly understanding of the Constitution and both the written and the unwritten rules of the Senate, colleagues and staff often looked to Senator Byrd for guidance on procedure and the way forward. His love for and impact on the institution was clear, exemplified in one way through the eponymous ‘Byrd Rule.' Senator Byrd was an ardent, fierce supporter for the people of West Virginia. In a state that has long known economic struggles, Senator Byrd famously and unapologetically used the appropriations process to better the lives of his constituents. And he had many friends on both sides of the aisle, no doubt due to his willingness to work with others and seek consensus. Senator Byrd often spoke about his regret over participating in racist and anti-civil rights activities as a young man. I appreciated his willingness to publicly repudiate his membership with the Ku Klux Klan, and later his filibuster of the Civil Rights bill in the Senate. He often referred to his decade as a Klan member as the greatest mistake of his life. Senator Byrd also deftly identified the proudest moment in his career – his 2002 vote against authorizing the Iraq War. A fiery orator, he delivered a memorable speech on the eve of the invasion. As the Chair of the Out of Iraq Caucus, I greatly appreciated Senator Byrd's outspoken opposition to the war, his concern for our men and women in uniform and his foresight into how entrenched our nation would become in this unjustified war. Senator Byrd was a great ally for our anti-war cause and for our brave soldiers. Senator Byrd has left us, no doubt to join his beloved wife Erma and some of his dear friends, including Senator Ted Kennedy. My thoughts and prayers are with his family, friends and staff during this difficult time." ###
06.24.2010	The Senate Judiciary Committee today passed a bill introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to assist people with Alzheimer's disease. H.R. 908 reauthorizes, updates and expands the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, a Department of Justice program that helps local communities and law enforcement quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away or are missing and reunite them with their families. H.R. 908 was passed by the Committee on a vote of 14 to 5. The bill now awaits consideration on the floor of the Senate. "I am pleased that the Senate Judiciary Committee voted to provide vital assistance to vulnerable Alzheimer's patients and their families by reauthorizing and improving the effective Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. In addition to helping patients and their families, the program is an important resource for first responders, and it enables law enforcement officers to save valuable time so they can focus on other security concerns in our communities. We are one step closer to enacting this into law, and now I hope the full Senate will schedule a vote to continue and improve this important program" Congresswoman Waters said. Alzheimer's disease currently affects an estimated 5 million Americans, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and that number will multiply in the coming decades as our population ages. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that 7.7 million Americans will have Alzheimer's by the year 2030, and 11 to 16 million Americans will have the disease by the year 2050. One great risk for Alzheimer's patients is wandering away from their homes and caregivers. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on those who are defenseless. When wanderers are found and reported to local law enforcement officials, they often cannot remember who they are or where they live. Since it was established more than 10 years ago, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has reunited over 12,000 wanderers with their families. In 2008 alone, this registry enrolled 5,086 individuals and provided assistance to 715 people. In fiscal year 2009, the Department of Justice began to consider technology-based options to address wandering in addition to the national registry. For example, personalized wristbands that emit a tracking signal can be used to locate wanderers. These wristbands, when combined with specially trained search and rescue teams, can reduce search times from days to minutes. H.R. 908 requires the Department of Justice to operate the program as a competitive grant program and to give preference to national nonprofit organizations with a direct link to patients, and families of patients, with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. The bill authorizes up to $5 million per year in appropriations for Fiscal Years 2010 through 2016, an increase over the $2 million appropriation in Fiscal Year 2009. H.R. 908 has been endorsed by more than 175 national, state and local organizations and public safety agencies, including the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America. It has 23 bipartisan cosponsors in the House of Representatives, including the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Alzheimer's Task Force, Congressman Edward Markey and Congressman Christopher Smith. It was passed by the House of Representatives without opposition on February 10, 2009, shortly after its introduction. Congresswoman Waters has also introduced H.R. 4123, the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act. This bill would authorize grants to improve treatment for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. This bill has 78 bipartisan cosponsors and is supported by nearly 100 national, state and local organizations. ###
06.23.2010	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation (H.R. 5569) introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to extend the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) until September 30th. NFIP is the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. Congress has passed several short-term extensions of NFIP this year, but it lapsed on June 1st. However, H.R. 5569 would be retroactive until May 31st. The House recently passed an extension of NFIP through December 30 as part of a jobs bill (H.R. 4213), but the Senate has not yet passed that legislation. Congresswoman Waters, chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, drafted a legislative reform package (H.R. 5114) that reauthorizes NFIP for 5 years. The Financial Services Committee passed her bill in April, and it currently awaits consideration by the full House. Until Congress takes action for this long-term fix, she hopes that the Senate will also pass an extension through September. "Extending the flood insurance program is important. Although homeowners who currently have flood insurance policies remain covered, no new policies can be issued unless the Senate acts now. The expiration of the program has left homeowners and prospective homebuyers in flood areas unable to buy insurance," said Congresswoman Waters. With NFIP now unavailable for new flood insurance policies, approximately 1200 homebuyers a day are unable to close on their homes according to the National Association of Mutual Insurance Companies. ###
06.22.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) cited the experiences of a homeowner in her district to illustrate the challenges facing millions of American homeowners trying to prevent foreclosure, and she urged Congress to take action to help. Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, is among the Members of Congress selected to negotiate the final details of Wall Street reform and consumer financial protection legislation. In a statement she delivered today during deliberations of the House-Senate conference committee, the Congresswoman argued that this comprehensive restructuring of the nation's financial system must address the housing crisis. Congresswoman Waters advocates legislation that would make loan modifications mandatory because voluntary programs have not been sufficient to prod mortgage servicers to help homeowners. Congresswoman Waters' full statement follows: America's homeowners need our help. They have been asking for our help since the foreclosure crisis began three years ago. As a Congress we have failed to respond to them. That must end today. It must end because an estimated 2.5 million foreclosures were completed from 2007 – 2009, and an estimated 5.7 million additional foreclosures are imminent. Our current efforts to end this crisis, including the Administration's initiative, have fallen woefully short. Hope for Homeowners has not come close to reaching the 400,000 homeowners that were initially intended to be served by the program. In fact, as of February 2010, the program had received 1,083 applications, and 35 mortgages had been insured by FHA. The Home Affordable Modification Program (HAMP), a voluntary program with little enforcement from Treasury, remains challenged and has failed to put a dent in the epic numbers of foreclosures sweeping our country. For example, at the end of 2009 only 86.4 percent of mortgages nationwide were current and performing. Moreover, out of the 3.2 million loans eligible for HAMP, only 1.2 million have received trial modifications. Of that amount, only 347,000 of those modifications have become permanent. Meanwhile, Congress has repeatedly denied homeowners the right to modify their loans through the bankruptcy courts. I find it interesting that during the most comprehensive restructuring of our financial system since the Great Depression—which had record levels of foreclosures as well— the base text does nothing to help struggling homeowners on Main Street. Now, the House offer for Title XIV does include a provision I authored with Chairman Frank to provide $3 billion for loans to help unemployed homeowners make their mortgage payments, and while I hope the Senate accepts our offer, that assistance will only help to solve part of the problem. In order to truly help homeowners and end foreclosures, we must tackle the heart of the problem. The problem is that homeowners are at the mercy of their mortgage servicers because loan modifications are provided at the discretion of the servicer. The only way to help homeowners is to mandate loss mitigation activities, including loan modifications such as principal reduction. Research has consistently shown that principal reduction is the most effective means of providing a sustainable loan modification for a borrower. For example, according to a 2009 study by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, when a borrower's monthly mortgage payment is reduced by 25 percent through interest rate reduction, the borrower is 11 percent less likely to default within one year. However, if the same borrower's monthly payment reduced by 25 percent through principal reduction, the chance of the borrower redefaulting falls by nearly 27 percent. With one in 4 homeowners underwater on their loans, principal reduction must be considered as a viable means of loan modification. Voluntary programs don't work. I'm going to speak honestly: HAMP was written by the Treasury and the servicers. They're not doing anything in that program that they don't want to do. And that's why the program isn't working. Every week my office gets dozens of calls from homeowners who have had servicers lose their paperwork, give them incorrect information or outright lie to them, offer them modifications that would lead to them owing more on their loan or making more in mortgage payments, deny them for HAMP modifications, initiate foreclosure proceedings on them while they are waiting for a modification… the list goes on and on. My staff and I try to help these homeowners to the best of our ability. For example, a few weeks ago my office received a call from a constituent who was told by his servicer that his loan is current, and therefore he is not able to get a loan modification. The servicer said that the borrower had to be at least 2 months delinquent on their payments in order to get a modification, per the investor agreement. When my staff called the servicer, suddenly they were willing to offer a loan modification to the borrower. So this servicer obviously lied to the borrower about what was allowed in the investor agreement. This example illustrates that at the end of the day, we—much like the homeowners—are asking the servicer for a favor. We are asking them to let someone stay in their home or to receive a payment they can afford. The servicers are saying "no" because there is no benefit to them if they say "yes." It is in their power to say "no," and with no one compelling them otherwise, they will continue to say "no." It's time that we take that power away from them. Mr. Chairman, I introduced legislation last year, H.R. 3451, the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act, which would provide for mandatory loss mitigation, reform the servicing industry, and provide real relief to America's homeowners. Senator Jack Reed from Rhode Island also introduced legislation, S. 1731, the Preserving Homes and Communities Act, that would also provide for mandatory loss mitigation. It is clear that there's at least some support in both chambers for an approach that does more than just pay lip service to America's homeowners. This is why I am asking that Title XIV be left open so that House and Senate Members and staff can work together over the next few days to develop a solution to assist America's homeowners. I think that we can do this, Mr. Chairman. So far during the conference, both sides have made concessions, have listened to the other's prerogative, and have been willing to negotiate. I hope that when it comes to helping our country's homeowners, that same spirit of negotiation and compromise can be achieved. I must note that if we pass this bill without doing anything to prevent foreclosures—if we fix Wall Street and ignore Main Street—we will have done a disservice to our country, our homeowners, and the chambers we represent. ###
06.21.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted today for legislation that will create hundreds of thousands of jobs and help small businesses. In addition to leveraging $300 billion in much-needed lending to small businesses, the legislation offers tax incentives to help America's small businesses grow. "California's small businesses will continue to be the engine of our economic recovery," said Congresswoman Waters. "Small businesses have created two-thirds of the new jobs in this country over the last 15 years, and this legislation will give them the capital they need to put Californians back to work and drive job creation and innovation. I believe this legislation will have a direct impact on lowering our state's unemployment rate, which has been hovering near 13 percent for far too long." The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act (H.R. 5297), which Congresswoman Waters cosponsored, will help small businesses expand by making investments in states and small banks that focus on lending to local small businesses. This new $30 billion lending fund – which includes tough performance-based incentives and safeguards to ensure that funds go to American small businesses – will spur job creation in California and across the U.S. The bill will also help cultivate American innovation through a new public-private partnership designed to channel early stage investment capital to promising new start-ups. H.R. 5297 offers tax incentives to spur immediate investments in America's small businesses. These reforms will lower the capital gains taxes on small business investments and increase tax deductions to help entrepreneurs to recover more start-up expenses. "Almost half of the small businesses seeking loans last year were unable to meet their credit needs. That is unacceptable, and the consequences have been felt across the nation – including the minority and often-times underserved communities I represent in Los Angeles," said Congresswoman Waters. "By cosponsoring bills like this and by working to shape financial reform legislation that holds Wall Street accountable and protects consumers, I am taking steps to strengthen our economy so people can work, invest and save." The Small Business Jobs and Credit Act has been endorsed by a variety of organizations, including the National Small Business Association, the Small Business Majority, National Association of Realtors, the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, the American Bankers Association, Biotechnology Industry Organization and the National Bankers Association. # # #
06.18.2010	As the House and Senate negotiators continue their work to reconcile legislation to reform Wall Street and provide strong consumer financial protection, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) applauded the approval of a provision she introduced to establish an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion at each government financial services agency. In a letter to the editor published in the Wall Street Journal today, Congresswoman Waters also issued a stinging response to an editorial the paper published earlier this week criticizing her legislation and grossly distorting what it will accomplish. The full text of Congresswoman Waters' letter appears below: The Journal editorial "Politicizing the Fed" (June 14) is filled with misrepresentations, unsupported conclusions and outright distortions about a provision of the Wall Street reform and consumer protection bill that I introduced and that has now been approved by the House-Senate conference committee. The legislation establishes an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion at each government financial services agency in order to "ensure equal employment opportunity and the racial, ethnic and gender diversity" of the workforce and senior management and also to increase "the participation of minority-owned and women-owned businesses in the programs and contracts" of each agency. The Journal mischaracterizes both the intent and the effects of the legislation. It is absolutely not an attempt to politicize the Fed or any other agency or to allocate credit by race and gender. Nothing in the bill mandates lending to minorities or women. The provision does not even mention lending. The offices will only be responsible for employment, management, and business activities of the agencies. The provision that passed the House made the directors of these offices Presidential appointees requiring Senate confirmation, but both the base conference text and the version approved in conference make them members of the Senior Executive Service. They will develop standards to assess the diversity policies and practices of regulated entities, but they will not have any authority over regulated institutions. They will not have the authority to look at how banks are lending to minorities and women. The directors won't be responsible for formulating monetary policy. It is also wrong and outrageous to suggest that the bill undermines regulators or interferes with their ability to prevent systemic risk. Nothing in the bill would require, cause, nudge or even hint that a financial services agency should abandon or subjugate its focus on systemic risk to make loans based on race or gender. What this legislation will do is help address an indisputable problem, the lack of diversity in financial services. Rigorous analysis documents the discrimination that women and minorities face compared to white men of similar educational background and age. Data from the Office of Personnel Management shows the lack of African-American and Hispanic senior managers at the federal financial services agencies. At the Treasury Department, for example, minorities only make up 17.2% of employees at senior pay levels. A recent report from the Government Accountability Office points to the lack of diversity within the financial services industry, with virtually no improvement at the management level from 1993 to 2008. The lack of contracting opportunities for minority- and women-owned businesses through programs like TARP has also been documented. The provision is designed to broaden and improve the workforce of these agencies and expand opportunities for our nation's small businesses—including minority- and women-owned businesses—to participate in programs and contracts instead of continuing to rely on the same "old boy" network and handful of Wall Street firms responsible for the crisis in the financial markets. ###
06.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced today that Medicare has started mailing checks to seniors who have paid too much for their prescription drugs under Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage. These are seniors who have paid $2,830 or more before they were eligible for the catastrophic coverage threshold – a gap in coverage known as the ‘donut hole'. Under the recently enacted health reform law, seniors who fall in the donut hole coverage gap in 2010 will receive a one-time, tax-free $250 rebate check. The checks will continue to be mailed monthly over the next several months as seniors enter the coverage gap. "Prescription drugs cost many people thousands of dollars a year and this check is a down payment on reducing prescription drug costs for seniors and eventually closing the donut hole altogether," Congresswoman Waters said. "This is the first example of how the health care reform bill will strengthen Medicare and help seniors. Last year, roughly 382,000 Medicare beneficiaries in our state of California fell into the donut hole and received no extra help to defray the cost of their prescription drugs. Now, under health reform, help is on the way." The checks are just the first benefit from health reform for seniors in the Medicare Prescription Drug program. Beginning in January 2011, seniors in the donut hole will receive a 50% discount on brand name drugs. By 2020, the donut hole will be completely closed. Congressional Republicans created the donut hole – leaving thousands of seniors to choose between buying the prescriptions they need and putting food on the table – and now they refuse to help close it. Medicare recipients don't have to do anything to get the $250 check – once their drug costs for the year hit $2,830, the one-time check will be issued automatically. Making prescription drugs more affordable for seniors is only one of the many benefits for seniors included in the recently enacted health reform law. Other benefits for seniors include: • Free preventive care services under Medicare beginning in 2011. • Strengthens Medicare by extending its solvency by an additional 12 years, from 2017 to 2029. • Improves seniors' access to doctors. • Continues to reduce waste, fraud and abuse. • Improves care by helping doctors communicate and coordinate. • Expands home and community-based services to keep seniors in their home, instead of in nursing homes. "Congressional Republicans calling for health reform repeal oppose this progress for seniors and would return us to a system of higher drug costs, shrinking benefits, and insecurity for our seniors," said Congresswoman Waters. "They would protect insurance company profits at the expense of the care our seniors need and deserve. My Democratic colleagues and I won't let that happen." ###
06.10.2010	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed legislation introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to help families realize the dream of homeownership, protect Americans from mortgage fraud and save taxpayers money.The FHA Reform Act of 2010 (H.R. 5072) ensures that the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) remains viable and continues its mission of insuring mortgage loans. The bill passed overwhelmingly by a vote of 406-4. "The FHA Reform Act is important for households across the country because it will enable FHA to respond to the current housing and economic crisis and continue to provide opportunities to millions of Americans for homeownership. As the private market has contracted, FHA has stepped into the void and injected much-needed credit into our mortgage system. Increasingly, it is the only option available for American homebuyers with less than a 20 percent down payment," said Congresswoman Waters. FHA has filled a vital role in the nation's economy, helping 37 million Americans attain homeownership since 1934. FHA insurance has been particularly important for minority communities, low-income families, and first-time homebuyers. Congresswoman Waters, chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, drafted the FHA Reform Act in response to news that FHA's reserves had fallen below the two percent level required in law. The Act will strengthen FHA's finances and save taxpayers $2.5 billion over five years, while still providing affordable mortgage insurance to the individuals FHA is intended to serve. H.R. 5072 also provides FHA with enhanced authority to crack down on lenders engaged in fraud or misrepresentation or failing to comply with FHA guidelines for originating or underwriting loans. "Families, neighborhoods and the nation's housing market have been hurt by irresponsible lending and mortgage fraud schemes, and we need to make sure homebuyers are protected. FHA has already taken steps to increase its lender enforcement activities, and this bill empowers the agency to root out the bad actors while reserving the program for the lenders that follow the rules," Congresswoman Waters said. In addition, Congresswoman Waters' legislation requires FHA to improve its internal controls to better manage risk and to provide transparent data to the public and to Congress. This includes improving monitoring of early defaults and claims, tracking mortgage information by loan servicer, providing FHA with the ability to contract out for additional credit risk analysis, requiring mortgagees to report to FHA when they stop buying loans from other mortgagees and requiring a Government Accountability Office study on FHA and Ginnie Mae. The bill also creates a new Deputy Assistant Secretary at FHA for Risk Management and Regulatory Affairs. Congresswoman Waters drafted the legislation after conducting three hearings on FHA in the last six months. She worked closely with both Democratic and Republican colleagues to produce a bill that gained bipartisan support. H.R. 5072 has the support of a diverse group of organizations including the National Urban League, the National Council of La Raza, the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, the Mortgage Bankers Association, the National Association of Realtors and the National Association of Home Builders. ###
06.08.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) participated in a House Judiciary Committee field hearing yesterday on the merger of Comcast and NBC Universal. The hearing, entitled ‘The Proposed Combination of Comcast and NBC Universal', was held at the California Science Center in Los Angeles and included testimony from witnesses representing the entertainment industry, civil rights organizations, and consumer advocates. Congresswoman Waters, a member of the Judiciary Committee, raised concerns about the merger's potential impact on women, minorities and consumers, asked several questions of the witnesses and lamented the fact that certain key players in the deal were absent from the hearing. Congresswoman Waters said, "The large turnout at the hearing revealed that many people have many questions about the scope of the merger and its impact on their wallet, their programming, and the representation of women and minorities in front of and behind the camera." "Assessing how committed Comcast and NBC are to diversity goes beyond examining their contributions, donations or community service projects to aid nonprofit, community and church groups," the Congresswoman continued. "While those initiatives are important, today's hearing was about understanding how diversity, programming, management, ownership and consumer prices could be impacted by a merger of this size. In addition, we must evaluate whether the merger of the nation's largest cable and internet company with one of the nation's major network news and content providers is anticompetitive, unfairly dominating the market and thereby squeezing out alternative outlets for diverse voices and cultures." "At the time of the hearing, NBC Universal did not have a single primetime show with a minority show-runner, and that is problematic. When we judge the sincerity of these corporations' commitment to diversity, we look at their leadership and their work product." Congresswoman Waters added, "Comcast and NBC must be prepared to detail whether and how they meaningfully involve women and minorities in all aspects of media programming, production and distribution." After delivering their opening statements, Members of the Judiciary Committee heard testimony from a panel made up of writers, producers, industry executives, lawyers, activists and professors. The Committee entertained dialogue between panelists, among Members and even with the audience as the Members shared their thoughts and concerns and asked questions about the merger. Congresswoman Waters has long been concerned about gender and racial diversity in media programming, management and ownership and the impact that media consolidation has on American consumers. Earlier this year, the Congresswoman urged the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to extend by 45 days the time period in which the public could comment on the Comcast-NBC merger. After she also introduced legislation that would have required it, the FCC granted the extension. Additionally, Congresswoman Waters and 68 of her colleagues asked the FCC to conduct public hearings around the country on the merger. The FCC recently announced that it will conduct a public meeting in Chicago in July. Congresswoman Waters considers this a promising start to what she hopes will become a series of public hearings, for which FCC Commissioners Mignon Clyburn and Michael Copps have expressed support. "The field hearing was important, and the testimony was informative, but many questions still must be answered, especially by Comcast, which chose not to testify," said Congresswoman Waters. "That is why additional Congressional and formal FCC public hearings in D.C. and around the country are imperative: American consumers need to have all their questions answered as we prepare for one of the largest media mergers in this country's history. I want to thank Chairman Conyers for holding this hearing in Los Angeles, and also to thank my colleagues and the panelists for their participation as well. More events like this are necessary so that we all understand the merger's impact on diversity and consumer costs." Members of the Judiciary Committee who took part in today's hearing included Chairman John Conyers (D-MI), Congresswoman Waters, Congressman Steve Cohen (D-TN), Congresswoman Judy Chu (D-CA) and Congressman Louie Gohmert (R-TX). Witnesses testifying before the committee included Will Griffin, Hip Hop on Demand; Alex Nogales, National Hispanic Media Coalition; Samuel Kang, The Greenlining Institute; Allen Hammond, Santa Clara University School of Law; Alfred Liggins, Radio One; Stanley Washington, National Coalition of African American Owned Media; Jim Weitkamp, Communications Workers of America; Suzanne de Passe, de Passe Jones Entertainment; Dr. Darnell Hunt, University of California, Los Angeles; Kathryn Galan, National Association of Latino Independent Producers; Frank Washington, Tower of Babel LLC; and Paula Madison, NBC Universal. To read the Congresswoman's opening remarks from the hearing, click here. ###
05.27.2010	The Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, chaired by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), today approved legislation to enhance efforts to combat housing discrimination, passing the Housing Fairness Act of 2009 (H.R. 476) on a voice vote. Congresswoman Waters is an original cosponsor and strong supporter of H.R. 476, which – along with a manager's amendment that also passed the subcommittee today – reauthorizes the Fair Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP) for five years, authorizes $15 million annually for the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to administer a nationwide testing program to measure housing discrimination, and requires HUD to implement a competitive matching grant program for nonprofits to study the causes and effects of housing discrimination. "This legislation will help prevent millions of fair housing violations from taking place in America's neediest communities," said Congresswoman Waters. "FHIP was established to provide grants to fair housing centers to enforce fair housing laws and educate consumers, but the program has never been fully funded, and as a result many fair housing violations are occurring each year." Congresswoman Waters emphasized that H.R. 476 has strong bipartisan support, and she praised Congressman Al Green (D-TX) for working closely with Congresswoman Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), the subcommittee's ranking member, to put together a manager's amendment that includes changes requested by both Democrats and Republicans to improve the legislation. The manager's amendment provides greater oversight of FHIP and authorizes the Secretary of HUD to establish minimum quality standards for testing enforcement programs while strengthening the qualification requirements of testers. It will also expand the scope of the research provision to include veterans and military personnel who have also been targeted for housing discrimination. In addition, it increases the local matching grant portion of the testing program from 25 percent to 50 percent. Housing discrimination in America remains a widespread and serious problem. In January, Congresswoman Waters presided over a hearing at which witnesses testified about discrimination faced by minorities, person with disabilities, families with children and others when searching for housing and called for more testing to better prevent housing discrimination. According to a 2009 HUD report, more Americans are reporting incidents of housing discrimination than ever before, with disability and race cited as the leading factors. The National Fair Housing Alliance estimates that approximately four million fair housing violations occur each year. Although the vast majority of violations go unreported, more than 30,000 fair housing complaints were filed in 2008, the highest number in history. Government agencies responsible for overseeing and enforcing housing policies actually process only a fraction of discrimination complaints. Private nonprofit fair housing groups processed approximately 20,000 complaints, which was 66 percent of the total complaint load in 2008. HUD processed 2,100 complaints, and state and local agencies processed 8,429. The U.S. Department of Justice filed 33 fair housing cases that year. "It is clear that federal agencies have either been unable or unwilling to effectively identify and address the issue of housing discrimination," Congresswoman Waters said. "We know that racial steering occurs frequently and continues to adversely affect minorities. Too little is being done to ensure fair and equal access to housing among minority populations, but passing H.R. 476 will make a difference." ###
05.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today expressed concerns about the Obama Administration's Transforming Rental Assistance (TRA) initiative which would make changes in the nation's public housing programs. At a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee, Congresswoman Waters – who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee – identified several areas of concern about the "Preservation, Enhancement, and Transformation of Rental Assistance Act of 2010", legislation designed to implement TRA. She outlined her objections both in a statement and while questioning Shaun Donovan, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), following his testimony. Congresswoman Waters' statement follows: I appreciate Secretary Donovan joining us for today's hearing on the Transforming Rental Assistance Initiative (TRA). TRA is designed to change the funding structure of the public housing program so that housing authorities are able to charge market rents, enabling them to receive a greater subsidy. Its other purpose is to enable the Department to consolidate its different rental programs into one. However, I have serious concerns about this proposal and how it would impact our public housing stock and the 1.2 million families who call this resource home. Instead of receiving operating and capital funds from HUD, housing authorities would now have a long-term project-based assistance contract which would allow them to mortgage their public housing developments. I am very concerned about this aspect of the proposal. First, I have questions about replacing public housing – which for the most part is affordable into perpetuity – with long-term contracts with a finite term. Under HUD's proposal, housing authorities would enter into 20 or 30 year contracts with HUD and at the end of that term, the owner would either renew the contract or allow it to expire, giving the tenants vouchers. We know that this model doesn't work. For example, as Ms. Montanez will testify on the second panel, since 1996, 400,000 affordable housing units have left HUD's inventory. This is why Chairman Frank has worked for several years on legislation that would encourage more owners to remain in the program when their contract expires. Second, I am very concerned about the bill's one-for-one replacement provisions. The bill would allow developments in areas with an excess supply of affordable housing to replace 50 percent of public housing with vouchers. If TRA is supposed to preserve public housing, I fail to understand why vouchering out that housing is necessary for its preservation. Third, I am concerned about what happens to public housing in the event of a foreclosure or bankruptcy. Right now we are in the middle of the worst foreclosure crisis this country has ever experienced. Many lenders made loans that simply weren't sustainable and homeowners subsequently defaulted on those loans. While the foreclosure of one home may be a tragedy, it is an event that only affects one family. The foreclosure of a public housing development would have a devastating impact for dozens – and in some cases – hundreds of families. Finally, I am concerned about whether or not this proposal represents the privatization of public housing. I think there is value in public housing, particularly in the fact that it is "public" in the sense that its owners – housing authorities – are not profit driven. Public housing is very effective at serving the "hard to house" population – people who for one reason or another, can't navigate the private rental market. Allowing the private sector to enter may provide housing authorities with more capital, but for-profit actors will be looking for a profit. Neither this Congress nor this Administration should allow anyone to profit at the expense of public housing residents. Many housing advocacy organizations from across the country submitted written statements for the hearing record opposing TRA, including the Los Angeles Coalition to End Hunger and Homelessness and other Los Angeles housing and human rights organizations. ###
05.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today convened a meeting with representatives from the four largest national banks, the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) and the Consolidated Board of Realtists (CBR) – an organization of African American real estate professionals – to examine the ability of minority real estate professionals to access the listings on foreclosed housing repossessed by the major banks and FHA. Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, has been actively engaged in efforts to ensure diversity and equal opportunity within the housing and financial services industries. She has introduced legislation to accomplish these goals and also convened numerous meetings with a range of participants from government, the private sector and non-profit organizations on this issue. The meeting she hosted today included officials from Citigroup, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, JPMorgan Chase and FHA as well as more than 200 minority real estate professionals from the Los Angeles area. Bank and FHA representatives discussed how they select real estate brokers to market and sell the inventory of homes they reclaim after a borrower forecloses. Minority real estate professionals voiced concerns that they are being ignored and not provided the opportunity to market and sell foreclosed homes on behalf of the banks and FHA. "As my discussions with minority real estate professionals in the Los Angeles area have made clear, both these large banks and the federal government often create barriers for the inclusion of qualified minority brokers and contractors," Congresswoman Waters said. "That is why I convened this meeting. It is essential to ensure that African Americans and Latinos have an opportunity to market and sell this huge inventory of foreclosed properties." After a bank or FHA forecloses on a home, the home is either sold at auction or kept within the bank inventory. Banks and FHA then have to list properties with real estate professionals, as well as hire contractors to maintain and rehabilitate the properties. The inventory of these real estate-owned (REO) properties has steadily grown over recent months, with banks finalizing foreclosure actions on a growing number of properties. In fact, RealtyTrac data indicates that banks took control of about 92,000 properties nationwide in April alone – constituting a nearly 45 percent increase from April 2009. The challenges facing Congresswoman Waters' district are particularly acute. The 90-day delinquency rate in the 35th District of California was 16.55 percent in March of 2010, compared to a rate of 11.7 percent in California and 8.93 percent nationally, according to First American CoreLogic. And the REO rate, or the rate at which banks retake ownership of properties in foreclosure, was alarmingly 50 percent higher in Congresswoman Waters' district than in California overall and more than double the national rate. While impacted by the foreclosure crisis, Americans have been affected simultaneously by increasing levels of unemployment, especially in minority communities, with African American and Latino unemployment 80 and 40 percent higher than white unemployment in April 2010 respectively. "The high level of unemployment is particularly distressing given the fact that minority communities were deliberately targeted by subprime lenders and are suffering the worst during the foreclosure crisis," said Congresswoman Waters, citing a recent analysis by UCLA finding that African Americans and Latinos combined lost an estimated $200 billion in assets over the last three years. The Congresswoman has led congressional efforts for swift action on both the foreclosure and unemployment crises in her district and in minority communities across the country. Two years ago, Congresswoman Waters authored legislation which created the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), which provides grants to states, local governments and nonprofits to fight foreclosures, home abandonment and blight and to restore neighborhoods. She was able to secure $6 billion for the program through two infusions of funds. The CBR is an organization of African American real estate brokers, organized over 60 years ago when they were prevented from joining other real estate professional organizations. Its members sell properties in the Los Angeles area and also support education, training and development for minority real estate professionals entering the business while keeping members up-to-date with current real estate laws and regulations. Congresswoman Waters' work with CBR has enabled the organization's members to begin to access business opportunities under the NSP. ###
05.13.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) announced today that 23 additional Members of Congress signed on to her letter to Federal Communications Commission (FCC) Chairman Julius Genachowski, urging the FCC to hold public hearings on the merger of the Comcast Corporation with NBC Universal (NBC). The original letter, sent last week, was signed by Congresswoman Waters and 45 of her colleagues. It included a series of questions about diversity, distribution, cable rates, labor relations and advertising for Comcast and NBC to answer. The additional signatures, sent to the FCC in an addendum letter today, further reflect the geographically, ideologically and racially diverse group of Members of Congress who all recognize that a merger of this size – Comcast is the largest provider of internet and cable in the country – will affect virtually every American and therefore deserves thorough scrutiny through a public hearings process. "As stewards of the common good and as policymakers, it is important for us to do all that we can to ensure full transparency in the merger. We've heard from many consumer and media advocacy groups who raise concerns about each company's overall business activities related to programming, ownership and personnel diversity, and who fear that a merger of this size and scope would have a broad impact on the American consumer." The Congresswoman continued, "I am pleased that more of my colleagues have joined me in this endeavor, and I am encouraged that FCC Commissioner Mignon Clyburn has voiced her support for public hearings on the merger as well. In an age of media consolidation and a lack of female and minority diversity in the boardroom, my colleagues and I are committed to a process that asks tough questions, provides answers, and ensures the American people that their best interests are considered." To view the letters and the full list of signatures, click here. Also, today Congresswoman Waters questioned Attorney General Eric Holder during a House Judiciary Committee hearing on the Department of Justice. The Congresswoman asked the Attorney General about the Comcast-NBC merger, and whether he thought that public hearings by the FCC could be helpful as the DOJ conducts its own anti-trust inquiry, to which he replied "they could be." The video can be seen here. ###
05.13.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) yesterday presided over a joint hearing of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity – which she chairs – and the Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations, chaired by Rep. Dennis Moore (KS-03), entitled "Minorities and Women in Financial Regulatory Reform: The Need for Increasing Participation and Opportunities for Qualified Persons and Businesses". The Congresswoman – along with the 9 other Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) members who serve on the Financial Services Committee – fought successfully for the inclusion of a provision to establish an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion at each of the federal banking agencies and the Consumer Financial Protection Agency in H.R. 4173, the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. The amendment to establish these offices passed the Financial Services Committee on a voice vote, and passed the full House last December. Senators Robert Menendez (D-NJ) and Roland Burris (D-IL) have offered a similar amendment to the Senate's version of the House bill. "Today's hearing was important for establishing a definitive hearing record on the underrepresentation of minorities and women in the financial services industry, the challenges facing minority- and women-owned businesses in contracting with our financial services agencies, and the need for an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion to effectively address these challenges," said Congresswoman Waters. At the hearing, the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO) testified on its findings from a report on "Overall Trends in Management-Level Diversity and Diversity Initiatives, 1993-2008" that examined diversity trends within the workplace for various sectors of the financial services industry. Although financial services firms have implemented some of the leading diversity management principles identified by experts, many of these initiatives have faced challenges including: a limited "pipeline" of minority or women candidates for senior management positions; difficulty in retaining minority and women candidates; and gaining management (particularly middle-management) "buy-in" to embrace diversity. As a result, while there was a slight increase, management-level diversity did not change substantially from 1993 – 2008. Witnesses also testified about their challenges in contracting with federal financial services agencies, especially on programs related to the economic recovery like the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF), and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's (FDIC) asset sales. Witnesses expressed how the agencies' use of no-bid contracts or closed RFP (request for proposal) processes negatively impacted them and further explained how such contracts can serve to exclude minority- and women-owned businesses from future opportunities with these agencies. "Situations where agencies feel the need to act quickly certainly highlight the need for an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion at each of these agencies," Congresswoman Waters said. "No one is saying that our agencies shouldn't be able to respond quickly in the event of a financial crisis. But without an infrastructure of inclusion and without someone in the room to weigh in on the impact of these actions on minority- and women-owned businesses, these businesses will continue to be excluded." Congresswoman Waters is a leading advocate of expanding the inclusion of minority and women financial services professionals both within government and in the private sector. She has encouraged greater participation by minority and women-owned businesses in government programs such as the TARP, TALF, the FDIC's asset sales, the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), and other programs addressed in H.R. 4173. "Given the increasing diversity of our nation's population, we must utilize the skills and talents of all of our citizens. This is not only a matter of fairness but also a question of effectiveness," Congresswoman Waters said. ###
05.07.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) is requesting that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) hold public hearings on the proposed Comcast Corporation merger with NBC Universal (NBC). In a letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski that was signed by 45 other Members of Congress, the Congresswoman also submitted a series of questions for both Comcast and NBC to answer. "I have been concerned about media consolidation and a lack of programming and ownership diversity in media for years," said Congresswoman Waters. "Comcast is the nation's largest provider of cable and internet services, so the merger's impact will affect virtually every American. My colleagues and I want the FCC to conduct a thorough review of the Comcast-NBC merger, including public hearings, and to have our questions answered in a timely and substantive manner." Recently, the FCC agreed to extend the public comment period for the Comcast-NBC merger by 45 days after Congresswoman Waters asked for the extension in a letter and later introduced legislation to mandate an extension by law. In this most recent letter the Congresswoman and her colleagues applauded the FCC for that decision and cited the FCC's history of holding public hearings on previous large mergers such as AOL/Time Warner, MCI WorldCom/Sprint and AT&T/Media One as precedent for Comcast/NBC public hearings. The questions submitted by Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues include a detailed analysis of the companies' employment of women and minorities in executive leadership, management positions, and contracting opportunities. The Members also inquire about Comcast and NBC's efforts to foster creative freedom and diversity in media programming, distribution, and ownership, as well as seek information on the companies' carriage agreements, cable rate increases, labor relations, advertising, and their compliance with current FCC rules. "With a new Administration and new FCC leadership, I believe that this merger will get the scrutiny it deserves," said Congresswoman Waters. "Comcast and NBC's records on corporate and programming diversity have recently been critiqued by many consumer and media advocacy groups. We all have a collective responsibility to ensure that women and minorities have a place in the corporate office and on television, and that the American people are not given less services or charged more money by a result of this merger." To view a copy of the letter and the submitted questions, click here. ###
05.06.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), a member of the House Judiciary Committee, recently requested that the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) open an investigation into the disappearance of Mitrice Richardson. Ms. Richardson disappeared after being arrested and subsequently released by the Los Angeles County Sherriff's Department (LACSD) in the wee hours of the morning of September 17, 2009. FBI Director Robert Mueller informed the Congresswoman that the FBI does not investigate adult missing persons, only persons under the age of 18. However Congresswoman Waters continued her efforts to assist Mitrice Richardson's family in locating her by contacting the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice in a letter yesterday, requesting an investigation. "I believe that Mitrice's civil rights were violated when she was arrested and then let go in the middle of the night without money, a phone, or transportation," said Congresswoman Waters. "The roads of Malibu are dark and dangerous at night, and since the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) later concluded that Mitrice appeared to be suffering from bipolar disorder that evening, I believe that the circumstances surrounding her disappearance warrant a thorough, federal investigation." The Congresswoman continued, "People with disabilities, including mental disabilities, are a protected class in this country. It appears the Malibu/Lost Hills Sherriff's Department failed to follow its own policies, which state that individuals with mental disabilities are to be released into the care of family, friends, or medical professionals. I believe that the Justice Department is the best equipped agency to handle this investigation, and I will continue to work with the appropriate officials to help the family of Mitrice Richardson." Congresswoman Waters is a also cosponsor of the Help Find the Missing Act (H.R. 3695), which would improve federal, state and local efforts to compile and coordinate databases of the missing and allow private citizens who seek information on their missing loved ones to review certain facts and evidence. A copy of Congresswoman Waters' letter to the DOJ can be found here. Her original letter to the FBI can be found here. ###
04.28.2010	The Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573) authored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) was signed into law by President Barack Obama Monday at the White House. The bill, which would help relieve Haiti of hundreds of millions of dollars in debt owed to multilateral institutions, recently passed both chambers of Congress, and is now classified as Public Law No: 111-158. "The President's signature on this bill is further indication of the United States' support for the people of Haiti," said Congresswoman Waters. "I authored this legislation because Haiti's immense debt burden would have severely impeded the country's recovery efforts. Our government will work closely with the multilateral development institutions to ensure that they cancel all of Haiti's debts owed to them, and that future aid over the next few years is delivered in the form of grants, so that Haiti does not accumulate more debt." Public Law No: 111-158 directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. Executive Directors at the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other multilateral development institutions to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to do the following: 1. cancel immediately and completely all debt owed by Haiti to these institutions; 2. suspend Haiti's debt service payments to the institutions until the debt is canceled completely; and 3. provide additional assistance to Haiti in the form of grants so that Haiti does not accumulate additional debt. Public Law No: 111-158 also directs the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State to use all appropriate diplomatic influence to secure the cancellation of all remaining bilateral, multilateral, and private creditor debt owed by Haiti. A Senate amendment included in the House bill specifies that Haiti should receive aid in the form of grants until February 1, 2015. After that time, multilateral development institutions may resume aid in the form of new loans. Congresswoman Waters, who serves on the Financial Services Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade, participated in a hearing today on promoting small and micro enterprise in Haiti. Congresswoman Waters said, "To help Haiti move forward, I am focused on making sure that durable forms of shelter continue to be delivered and distributed to the millions of survivors living in the camps for the displaced, so that they stay dry and protected from disease during the impending rainy season. Additionally, I will be assisting Haitian small business people and nongovernmental organizations in forming partnerships with the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) so that they have a substantive role in the rebuilding of their country." ###
04.27.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters' legislation to ensure that the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) remains viable and continues its mission of insuring mortgage loans was approved today by the House Financial Services Committee. Congresswoman Waters, chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, drafted the FHA Reform Act of 2010 (H.R. 5072) in response to news that FHA's reserves had fallen below the two percent level required in law. The Act will empower FHA to improve its financial position by allowing the agency to adjust its premium structure for new borrowers, while still providing affordable mortgage insurance to the individuals FHA is intended to serve including low-income and minority borrowers and individuals in traditionally underserved areas. FHA has filled a vital role in the nation's economy, helping 37 million Americans attain homeownership since 1934 and providing crucial insurance at a time when the private market has pulled back from the mortgage market. "The economic crisis that started a couple of years ago and declining home prices have caused FHA's capital reserves to deteriorate in recent months, but under the leadership of Secretary Shaun Donovan and FHA Commissioner David Stevens, FHA has taken unprecedented administrative and regulatory steps to improve risk management and root out bad actors participating in the program," Congresswoman Waters said. "This legislation makes essential reforms to strengthen FHA's finances." H.R. 5072 also provides FHA with enhanced authority to terminate lenders' approval to originate or underwrite loans backed by FHA insurance when FHA finds evidence of fraud or noncompliance. Such enhanced authority is needed, particularly in light of the recent cases of Lend America and Taylor Bean and Whitaker, who perpetuated fraud schemes spanning many years. In addition, Congresswoman Waters' legislation requires FHA to improve its internal reporting systems to better manage risk and to provide transparent data to the public and to Congress. This includes improving monitoring of early defaults and claims, tracking mortgage information by loan servicer, providing FHA with the ability to contract out for additional credit risk analysis, requiring mortgagees to report to FHA when they stop buying loans from other mortgagees and requiring a Government Accountability Office study on FHA and Ginnie Mae. The bill also creates a new Deputy Assistant Secretary at FHA for Risk Management and Regulatory Affairs. Congresswoman Waters drafted the legislation after conducting three hearings on FHA in the last six months. H.R. 5072 has the support of a diverse group of organizations including the National Urban League, the National Council of La Raza, the National Community Reinvestment Coalition, the Mortgage Bankers Association, the National Association of Realtors and the National Association of Home Builders. ###
04.27.2010	The House Financial Services Committee today passed legislation introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to improve the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), the primary source of reliable, affordable flood insurance coverage for millions of American homes and businesses. Congresswoman Waters, chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, drafted a legislative reform package that reauthorizes the program for 5 years. "Without being reauthorized, the flood insurance program has been relying on a series of short-term extensions but recently it expired, leaving homeowners and prospective homebuyers in affected areas unable to buy insurance," said Congresswoman Waters. More than five million homes and businesses rely on NFIP, which in the past primarily covered properties in special flood hazard areas for which buying flood insurance was mandatory. Now, however NFIP has a high rate of voluntary participation. In addition, the U.S. has in recent years experienced increased flooding in areas not designated as special flood hazard areas so FEMA has been revising and updating flood insurance maps to better reflect the risk of flooding in additional areas. Congresswoman Waters has worked with FEMA officials in Los Angeles to make sure that accurate flood maps are used so that homeowners are not required to purchase insurance if their neighborhood is not at risk for flooding. However, thousands of homeowners nationwide now find themselves in flood zones and required to purchase insurance. Her legislation delays the implementation of new rate maps so homeowners in a neighborhood newly classified as a flood zone will not be immediately burdened with insurance costs. H.R. 5114 also provides other resources for homeowners and communities, phases in actuarial rates and increases NFIP coverage limits. "The maximum coverage limits for flood insurance policies needed to be increased because of inflation and higher housing costs. However, the focus on NFIP should be on providing coverage for those vulnerable to natural disasters, not to subsidize the wealthiest Americans, so we are phasing out premium subsidies for second homes and vacation homes, which will save the program a lot of money," explained Congresswoman Waters. Organizations including the National Association of REALTORS, the National Association of Homebuilders, the American Insurance Association, the Property Casualty Insurers Association, and the Independent Insurance Agents and Brokers of America support Congresswoman Waters' legislation. Last week, Congresswoman Waters presided over a subcommittee hearing which featured testimony from several Members of Congress with an interest in flood insurance issues. Officials from the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA) – which administers the flood insurance program -- and the Government Accountability Office, real estate professionals, representatives of insurance companies, flood plain managers, and environmentalists were among the other witnesses who testified. ###
04.27.2010	Following testimony today by Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano on the urgent need for Congress to pass immigration reform this year and comments by Attorney General Eric Holder that the Justice Department is reviewing controversial legislation enacted in Arizona last week and might challenge it in federal court, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued a statement: "As the Representative for a diverse district in southern California that is heavily impacted by immigration, I understand that America's broken immigration system has had disastrous consequences for our nation, American citizens, and undocumented individuals living here who seek a better life for themselves and their families. I am proud to be an original cosponsor of the Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America's Security and Prosperity (CIR ASAP) Act of 2009 and its six core principles: o Enhancing border security; o Implementing a mandatory Electronic Employment Verification System (EEVS or E-Verify); o Reforming family and employment visa processes; o Providing a pathway to legalization; o Strengthening the U.S. economy and workforce; and o Making the citizenship process more accessible." Immigration is a national issue which falls under the jurisdiction of our federal government. In the absence of federal legislation to address immigration in an effective, fair and compassionate manner, some states and local governments are attempting to take matters into their own hands by passing laws that are not true solutions and will result in considerable harm to American citizens as well as undocumented immigrants. The most recent example of this is Arizona's new law that, in effect, justifies and even condones racial profiling by requiring police officers to demand identification from people whom they suspect are not U.S. citizens, question them and determine whether to detain them or let them go. Serving on the House Judiciary Committee I have heard accounts of racial profiling by police. It happens all too frequently, and unfortunately the Arizona legislation will make this problem even worse. The effect of this is clear – many American citizens will be subject to harassment by the police on the basis of their skin color, ethnicity, or speaking with an accent. This is not consistent with the Constitution or America's democratic values. Moreover, it will make our communities less safe by diverting police resources from fighting violent crime and will make residents who witness crime afraid to report it to the police. I continue to support comprehensive immigration reform and hope that the President, Congress and the American public will work together to pass legislation like CIR ASAP this year." ###
04.23.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today announced that the U.S. Department of Labor has awarded a $95,000 grant to the City of Hawthorne – South Bay Workforce Investment Board (SBWIB) for the "Bridge to Work" program. This project was funded following an appropriations request submitted by Congresswoman Waters in fiscal year 2009. "The ‘Bridge to Work' program is an exceptional program created to intervene against, prevent and suppress gang involvement of at-risk youth in South Los Angeles by providing employment and training services, conflict resolution services, life skills training, mentoring and counseling. I helped develop the program through several related appropriations and will continue to do so in the coming years because mitigating gang involvement is essential to the safety of our community and the future of our youth," Congresswoman Waters said. The program serves a 47-square mile area which includes the cities Hawthorne, Gardena and Inglewood – communities within the 35th district. The region faces many challenges: one in four households are in poverty, only about half of 9th graders graduate high school after 4 years and in 2004, the Los Angeles County Sheriff's office reported the existence of over 50 gangs in the area. "Bridge to Work" combats these statistics by engaging its participants in critical areas of personal development, education, vocation, and general life skills and conflict resolution, to have the greatest impact. The SBWIB partners with several organizations around the district to lend their resources to "Bridge" such as Centinela Youth Services, United Job Creation Council, and the Hawthorne Police Department. Jan Vogel, the Executive Director of the SBWIB, said, "We are so thankful to Congresswoman Maxine Waters for her continued support of youth programs. The current "Bridge to Work" funding will provide wonderful opportunities for at-risk youth to be connected to STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) Career Academies where students will discover firsthand how their participation can lead to exciting and rewarding careers in growth occupations." Specifically, the $95,000 grant will provide career development and work readiness training to 125 high risk 12th grade students. It will be coordinated with the Centinela Valley Union High School District and the local One-Stop organization. In November 2009, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) was honored with the prestigious Esther Williams Award from the South Bay Workforce Investment Consortium, the nonprofit arm of the SBWIB, for her "outstanding commitment and contribution to the South Bay community". ###
04.23.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), chairwoman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, hailed the passage of legislation related to Native American housing by the House of Representatives today. The "Indian Veterans Housing Opportunity Act of 2009" (H.R. 3553) amends the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 to exclude from consideration as income any amounts received by a family from the Department of Veterans Affairs for service-related disabilities of a member of the family. Congresswoman Waters said, "This legislation ensures that disabled Native American veterans, their families and their survivors are not denied support through the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act because they receive veterans and survivor benefits. I thank Congresswoman Ann Kirkpatrick (D-AZ) for introducing this legislation which reflects both common sense and compassion." Earlier this month, Congresswoman Waters presided over a field hearing in Congresswoman Kirkpatrick's district, which has the largest Native American population of any Congressional district in the country. "Getting to Window Rock, Arizona near the New Mexico border for the hearing was not easy. I traveled from Los Angeles, and staff had to travel a long way from Washington, DC during recess. However, I felt it was important to hold this hearing in Indian country, so we could see for ourselves the housing needs of residents and hear from witnesses, including disabled veterans, who might not have been able to testify if the hearing were held on Capitol Hill," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am especially pleased that the House has passed H.R. 3553 today, and I remain committed to ensuring that the nation's housing programs serve all citizens fairly." ###
04.20.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement upon learning of the death of noted civil rights leader and icon Dr. Dorothy Height: "Today our country has lost a great leader, an effective and passionate advocate and an inspiring woman. I'm deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Dorothy Height, my dear friend and a true national treasure. For 40 years she was the president of the National Council of Negro Women, and during that time she created the great Black family reunions that were held across this country that helped to unite communities, families and individuals, and give support to the concerted efforts to strengthen the African American family unit. Dr. Height made it clear she was an educator, no doubt because of her close friendship and working relationship with Mary McLeod Bethune, the famed educator and civil rights icon. Partly in Mary McLeod Bethune's image and partly because of her own passion and perseverance, Dr. Height went on to be the key woman involved in the civil rights movement, marching in the streets of New York, standing with Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. at the Lincoln Memorial and being the only woman in attendance at the meeting with President Lyndon B. Johnson that helped shape the civil rights bill. In fact, she had the ear of many presidents. Dr. Height recently took part in a roundtable discussion with President Barack Obama, discussing job creation and other issues in the African American community. Dr. Height was often called upon by national, community, women and civil rights groups to be a spokesperson and an adviser, and she regularly attended national and international conferences on women. I was honored to be a Member of Congress in 2004 when we presented Dr. Height with the Congressional Gold Medal – the highest civilian award in the U.S. I joined Dr. Height at an event last year to support Cora Masters Barry and a recreation and education center in Washington, DC that serves many children, but was facing closure because of a legal technicality. Her intervention in part helped convince the city to keep the facility open. Dr. Height never let her age or her physical condition prevent her from advocating for children, women, or communities of color during a life that spanned 98 years. Dr. Height's accomplishments, like her hats, are too numerous and too great to be properly addressed here. She was an icon, a legend and a fierce advocate for the civil rights of African Americans and for the empowerment of women and girls. Dr. Height's presence was certainly felt throughout this country for more than half a century, and her leadership and her grace will surely be missed. I am a better person for having known and worked with her, and our country has benefited immensely from her life's work. My thoughts and prayers are with Dr. Height's family and friends, and to the countless people whose lives were impacted by this great woman." ###
04.16.2010	The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) announced today that it will extend the deadline for the public to comment on Comcast's proposed acquisition of NBC Universal. This decision follows the introduction of H.R. 5020, legislation authored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), which attracted 56 co-sponsors, calling for an extension of the comment filing period. "The FCC Media Bureau now acknowledges – as I have maintained – that consumer advocates will need substantially more time to review the complex details of this merger and prepare a sufficient response," said Congresswoman Waters. "This positive development ensures that the interests of the American public will be weighed before the FCC issues its ruling on the merger." In addition to introducing H.R. 5020, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski requesting an extension of the filing period after the FCC denied the Media Access Project's request. MAP had sought an extension of the final comment deadline on the Comcast-NBC deal to August 1st (from June 17th) citing an "unusually large" number of comment deadlines on FCC issues coming due in the next couple of months. MAP had also pointed out that the FCC had not put the deal out for comment until March 18th, after the parties made a supplemental filing, and MAP noted the FCC's requirement that all arguments be made in initial comments. ###
04.14.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today introduced H.R. 5020, requiring the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to extend the deadline for filing comments on Comcast's proposed acquisition of NBC Universal (NBCU) for an additional 45 days. The legislation has 50 original co-sponsors, including the majority of the Congressional Black Caucus. Under the merger agreement, Comcast would gain majority ownership of NBCU's two broadcast television networks (NBC and Telemundo), its 26 locally owned and operated broadcast TV stations, several national cable programming networks, a motion picture studio, an international theme park business and its online content businesses. "Comcast is already the nation's biggest cable and Internet provider, and its acquisition of NBC Universal's vast broadcast, cable and online businesses and other holdings raises concerns," said Congresswoman Waters. "Everyone who watches TV or uses the Internet – in other words almost every American – will be affected by this merger, so I want to make sure that individuals and public interest groups are allowed to file comments before the FCC completes its review." H.R. 5020 is supported by a diverse group of organizations including Consumers Union, Free Press, the Media Access Project, Communications Workers of America, Parents Television Council, Public Knowledge, National Association of Hispanic Journalists, and the Greenlining Institute. The bill can be found at Earlier this week, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski requesting that the FCC Commissioners reconsider the FCC Media Bureau's recent denial of a request to extend the filing period by 45 days. She emphasized that an extension of time is especially important because preparing comments on such a complex transaction is a significant undertaking, especially at a time when many of the same consumer advocates are simultaneously preparing comments on other issues before the FCC. The full text of the letter can be found at /News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=180476 ###
04.14.2010	The House of Representatives today passed legislation authored and introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) providing debt relief for Haiti. Following its original passage in the House on March 10th, the bill was passed by the Senate, with an amendment, on March 26th and returned to the House for final passage. The Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573) will now make its way to the White House to be signed into law. Congresswoman Waters said, "America has stood by the people of Haiti during their hour of need, and the passage of this bill today signifies our intention to ensure that Haiti can rebuild and recover without accumulating more debt." H.R. 4573 directs the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. Executive Directors at the World Bank, the IMF, the IDB and other multilateral development institutions to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to do the following: 1. cancel immediately and completely all debt owed by Haiti to these institutions; 2. suspend Haiti's debt service payments to the institutions until the debt is canceled completely; and 3. provide additional assistance to Haiti in the form of grants so that Haiti does not accumulate additional debt. H.R. 4573 also directs the Secretary of the Treasury and the Secretary of State to use all appropriate diplomatic influence to secure the cancellation of all remaining bilateral, multilateral, and private creditor debt owed by Haiti. The Senate amendment to H.R. 4573 specifies that Haiti should receive aid in the form of grants until February 1, 2015. After that time, multilateral development institutions may resume aid in the form of new loans. Congresswoman Waters said, "I believe five years is a reasonable amount of time for Haiti to be able to recover without the burden of debt service payments on new loans, so I support the Senate's amendment." "The people of Haiti are poor, but they are physically and spiritually resilient," the Congresswoman continued. "I know that with the support of the international community, they will recover from this tragedy and create a brighter future for their children." ### Watch Congresswoman Waters' opening and closing remarks on her bill from the House floor
04.12.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent the following letter to FAA Administrator Babbitt, expressing her disappointment at the FAA's request of the City of Los Angeles to reconfigure the north airfield at LAX: April 12, 2010 Mr. J. Randolph Babbitt Administrator Federal Aviation Administration 800 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20591 Dear Mr. Babbitt: I was deeply disappointed to learn of your recent letter to Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, urging the City of Los Angeles to reconfigure the Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) north airfield. This letter disregarded the conclusions of a credible study comparing the safety of the current configuration of the LAX north airfield with several proposed alternate configurations. This study, entitled "LAX North Airfield Safety Study," was conducted by an independent panel of experts, with the support of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), using simulations of airport operations at the NASA Ames Research Center. As you know, the study concluded, "The North Airfield of LAX is extremely safe under the current configuration." Your letter also ignored the concerns of the communities surrounding LAX, most of which are in my congressional district. Residents of Westchester and Playa del Rey, which are located adjacent to the LAX north airfield, are strongly opposed to its reconfiguration, which could force families to leave their homes. Residents of the City of Inglewood, which is located under the flight path of aircraft using the north airfield, are concerned that reconfiguration will result in an increase in airport noise. The families and small businesses in the communities surrounding LAX are already impacted by the noise, pollution, and traffic congestion that results from airport operations. To the best of my knowledge, your office made no attempt to meet with individuals in these communities prior to sending your letter. Nor was there any attempt to speak with me prior to sending this letter, despite the fact that LAX is located in my congressional district. I issued a statement applauding the study immediately after its release, a copy of which was shared with the FAA. I am also concerned that your letter focuses on the efficiency of airport operations as a justification for reconfiguring the north runway. Safety and efficiency should be treated as separate issues. While airport safety is of paramount concern, air traffic efficiency must be evaluated in light of other issues affecting both the airport and local communities. The concerns of local communities should not be sacrificed in order to maximize the efficiency of airport operations. I respectfully request that you reconsider your position on the LAX North Airfield Safety Study. I urge you to give due consideration to the extensive research and simulations of airport operations on which this study is based before urging the City of Los Angeles to disregard its conclusions. I also urge you to consider the concerns of the communities surrounding LAX before urging the City of Los Angeles to reconfigure the north airfield. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress cc: The Honorable Antonio Villaraigosa, Mayor of Los Angeles Ms. Gina Marie Lindsey, Executive Director, Los Angeles World Airports ###
04.12.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today urged the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to extend the deadline for the public to comment on Comcast's proposed acquisition of NBC Universal. Congresswoman Waters has long been concerned about the effect of media consolidation because it hurts consumers by reducing competition and limits the access of the public to diverse views by crowding out community and minority media outlets. "The FCC must allow the public more time to present information, make arguments and raise questions about the takeover by Comcast -- the nation's biggest cable and broadband Internet company -- of NBC Universal, which owns broadcast and cable networks, TV stations and programs, and movie studios. A merger of this magnitude would have an enormous impact on virtually every American, and I want to make sure individuals and public interest groups have a chance to be heard," Congresswoman Waters said. Congresswoman Waters sent a letter today to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski requesting that the FCC Commissioners reconsider the FCC Media Bureau's recent denial of a request to extend the filing period by 45 days. She explained, "An extension of time is especially important in these proceedings given the Commission's request that petitioners raise all issues in their initial filings... [G]iven the extensive resources needed to participate in [a] proceeding and the complex and significant nature of this transaction, a 45-day extension is necessary and in the public interest." In raising concerns about the further consolidation of America's media market and the potential harmful impact of the Comcast-NBC merger, she also noted that only "five companies own America's major broadcast networks and 90 percent of the top 50 cable networks; produce three-quarters of all prime-time programming; and control 70 percent of the prime-time television market share. These same companies also own the nation's most popular newspapers and 85 percent of the top 20 Internet news sites." The full text of the letter Congresswoman Waters sent to FCC Chairman Genachowski can be found at /News/DocumentSingle.aspx?DocumentID=180476 ###
04.12.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent the following letter to FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski requesting an extension of the filing period on the proposed Comcast acquisition of NBC-Universal: April 12, 2010 Julius Genachowski Chairman Federal Communications Commission 445 Twelfth Street, SW Washington, DC 20554 Dear Chairman Genachowski, I am very disappointed with the FCC Media Bureau's recent order denying a request to extend the filing period by 45 days for comments and petitions in the Federal Communications Commission's (FCC) proceeding on the proposed Comcast acquisition of NBC-Universal. Given the large number of important matters before the Commission, I write to urgently request that the FCC Commissioners reconsider the Media Bureau's order and extend the comment period in conformity with the extension request filed on March 22, 2010. Last month, public interest groups filed a request with the FCC for a 45-day extension to file petitions to deny, oppose, and comment on the applications of Comcast Corporation, General Electric Company, and NBC Universal, to assign and transfer control of certain licenses. An extension of time is especially important in these proceedings given the Commission's request that petitioners raise all issues in their initial filings. Moreover, the Commission has established filing deadlines in a large number of important proceedings over the next few months. I firmly believe that given the extensive resources needed to participate in each upcoming proceeding and the complex and significant nature of this transaction, a 45-day extension is necessary and in the public interest. I have been tracking the Comcast-NBC merger for several months, and I am very concerned about the implications this merger has on diversity, localism, and competition in today's media market. Today, five companies own America's major broadcast networks, and 90 percent of the top 50 cable networks; produce three-quarters of all prime-time programming; and control 70 percent of the prime time television market share. These same companies also own the nation's most popular newspapers and 85 percent of the top 20 internet news sites. Under the merger before the Commission, America's media industry would be further consolidated with Comcast's majority ownership and control of the nation's largest cable system, which includes: one of the nation's largest networks, 27 broadcast television stations, 12 national cable channels, seven production studios, and several of the fast growing internet properties. Such an unprecedented transfer of media ownership and licenses warrants the Commission taking the necessary steps to ensure a complete and detailed record. Thus, an extension would allow public interest groups and other organizations sufficient time to better supply the Commission with the invaluable data and analysis it needs to conduct a comprehensive review of our nation's most consequential merger transaction to date. While the FCC has delegated its Media Bureau the authority to make certain procedural determinations with respect to the Comcast-NBC merger proceedings, I strongly believe that it is in the public interest for the FCC to provide adequate time for all impacted parties to file detailed comments that will greatly assist the Commission in evaluating the impact of Comcast's acquisition of NBC Universal. Therefore, I ask that the FCC Commissioners reconsider the Media Bureau's denial and extend the deadline for submission of comments an additional 45 days from the May 3rd deadline. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
04.08.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) yesterday helped launch an educational and outreach campaign on Alzheimer's disease made possible by $190,000 in federal funding that she secured for the Alzheimer's Association. The federal funds will be used to provide caregiver support and improve awareness about Alzheimer's disease and related disorders in African American and Latino communities in Los Angeles. "I am pleased that I was able to secure funding for the Alzheimer's Association's efforts to expand awareness of Alzheimer's disease in our community. Public education about Alzheimer's disease is especially important among African Americans and Latinos, who are disproportionately impacted by Alzheimer's, and I will continue to support efforts to educate those at risk for the disease," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters joined the California Southland Chapter of the Alzheimer's Association today at L.A. Southwest College to promote a campaign that will provide materials, programs and resources to residents of South Central Los Angeles to support people living with Alzheimer's and related disorders, as well as their family caregivers. The goals are to improve the early detection of Alzheimer's and also improve access to support services. Alzheimer's disease is increasing at epidemic levels as America's population ages, and minorities are especially at risk. African Americans are twice as likely and Hispanics are about 1.5 times as likely to develop Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia according to a report released last month by the Alzheimer's Association. The organization therefore is taking steps to educate communities with large minority populations like South Central Los Angeles about Alzheimer's and its warning signs. In addition, information about how baby boomers can reduce the risk of Alzheimer's is being distributed. "Healthy Body, Healthy Brain," a program of the Alzheimer's Association with support from local community agencies, will increase awareness of brain health and techniques for Alzheimer's risk reduction and health management. This program could be especially beneficial for African-Americans, who are disproportionately impacted by diabetes and cardiovascular diseases, both of which are significant risk factors for Alzheimer's. Risk reduction techniques that reduce the risk and improve the management of diabetes and cardiovascular diseases could reduce the rates of Alzheimer's among African Americans and many others in the community. More than 150,000 people in Los Angeles County are now living with Alzheimer's disease or a related disorder. The number of Alzheimer's cases in California is expected to double in the next 20 years, and among African-Americans in the state the number is projected to triple. ###
04.08.2010	To highlight the importance of education and job training, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) yesterday visited a Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) school dedicated to providing students and young adults with the knowledge and skills needed in the job market. At the Maxine Waters Employment Preparation Center (MWEPC), located in Watts in her district, the Congresswoman met with students, faculty and staff, toured some of the school's new facilities and learned about new programs available to the students. Concerned about high rates of unemployment in the African American and Latino communities, Congresswoman Waters is focused on legislative and community solutions to job creation and retention. "Students at the Maxine Waters Employment Preparation Center are receiving the education and training to succeed in the competitive job market," said Congresswoman Waters. "Particularly in these harsh economic times, when so many Americans are struggling and communities of color have been experiencing more of a depression than a recession, we need to make sure young adults are prepared for the workforce. The programs, technology and training available at MWEPC are preparing students for a career, not just a job." During her visit, Congresswoman Waters visited the automotive repair center, the construction program and the brand new welding shop. She learned that students in the automotive program are preparing to build an engine completely from scratch in collaboration with the Watts Labor Community Action Committee. The Congresswoman also toured the new 60,000 sq. foot addition to the school, which includes the Lillian Mobley Center, named after the noted community activist. Plans are underway to convert the Mobley Center into a state-of-the-art teleconference center, enabling students, faculty and staff to communicate with many schools and communities throughout the country. "I'm very impressed with the developments at MWEPC since my last visit," said Congresswoman Waters. "New programs, expanded space, and improved technology are preparing students for the working world. The professional uniforms, the new supplies and the interaction between students and faculty indicate that MWEPC can serve as a model for schools in California and across the country. I will continue to be an advocate for the MWEPC so it can fulfill its mission and help improve our community." Originally established as the Watts Skills Center in 1966, the school was renamed by the LAUSD Board of Education in 1989, when the Congresswoman was a California State Assemblywoman. It became known as the MWEPC, honoring her for her service to the community. Watts was then, and still remains, one of the poorest areas in the United States. According to the 2000 census, median household income there was only $19,419, per capita income was only $6,720, unemployment was 48 percent, and nearly 65 percent of people over 25 had no high school or equivalent degree. The MWEPC offers academic and career training programs to more than 9,000 people annually. The nursing program has a 100 percent graduation rate – the highest in California – and its partnership with Southwest College allows students to further gain expertise in the field of nursing. With the Congresswoman's assistance, MWEPC is able to offer Pell Grants, Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grants (FSEOG) and Montgomery GI bill assistance – the only school in its division to do so according to Principal Janet Clark. ###
04.01.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a leading advocate in Congress for assistance to and development of Haiti, attended the International Donors' Conference for Haiti at the United Nations (U.N.) yesterday where leaders and representatives of the world's nations pledged $9.9 billion in aid – including $5.3 billion for the first two years, far exceeding Haiti's goal of $3.9 billion. The Congresswoman attended policy discussions and donor pledging sessions, and met with former President Bill Clinton, the U.N. Special Envoy to Haiti. After the conference she issued the following statement: "Attending the donor conference at the U.N. today was a continuation of my longtime concern for Haiti and its people. I have worked for many years to assist Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, by promoting debt forgiveness, aid for development, the building of democratic institutions, and the protection of human rights. Following my two visits to Port-au-Prince since the earthquake, I have worked closely with Haitian-Americans, believing like so many that the Haitian diaspora will be most effective in helping Haiti get back on its feet and move forward. I had a chance to speak with Haitians in the diaspora at a recent conference at the Organization of American States (OAS) and again today at the U.N., where they were strongly represented and organized. I was inspired by the tone and the substance of today's conference, and I'm extremely proud of the leadership of both Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and former President Bill Clinton, who now serves as the U.N. Special Envoy to Haiti. They led informative presentations and discussions on the way forward for Haiti. I am convinced that U.N. Secretary General Ban Ki-moon has a strong understanding of the challenges facing the country and is committed to its long-term development. And of course, the U.S. government's support for Haiti is clear: both chambers of Congress have passed legislation I authored to cancel Haiti's debt held by international financial institutions, and the $1.15 billion pledged by the U.S. at yesterday's conference is an impressive addition to the almost $1 billion our country has already committed to Haiti. Haitian President René Préval and Haitian Prime Minister Jean-Max Bellerive were impressive as they explained their plan to put Haiti on a path to stability and prosperity. In particular, President Préval made an impassioned and serious request about the need to invest in education for Haiti's youngest citizens, which he plans to make a top priority in the new Haiti. There is a strong consensus that the Haitian government must and will take the lead on the initiative to renew Haiti. And I am confident that the Haitian government realizes that in order to rebuild and advance the country, there must be transparency, accountability and effective efforts to deal with corruption. The recent disclosure of salaries by high-ranking Haitian officials is an important start in this endeavor. The Interim Haiti Recovery Commission, to be co-chaired by Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bellerive, will be an important organizational mechanism to track donations and redevelopment efforts and to make sure all parties operate openly and with accountability. This Commission, which will include representatives from the Haitian government, donor countries, international organizations, international financial institutions, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), will be instrumental in laying the groundwork for a new Haiti. I look forward to continuing to work with the State Department, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the United Nations, the international financial institutions, the NGOs and the Haitians on the ground – in conjunction with the Commission – to help Haiti recover, rebuild, and prosper. I leave the donor conference feeling extremely hopeful for Haiti's future." ###
03.26.2010	Last night, the House of Representatives voted to reauthorize the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through H.R. 1586, the FAA Air Transportation Modernization and Safety Improvement Act. The bill funds the FAA with $53.5 billion through FY 2012, and includes important safety provisions for pilots, air traffic controllers, passengers and the environment. H.R. 1586 includes an amendment authored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) to prohibit consolidation of the FAA's regional offices and air traffic control facilities without congressional oversight and public comment. One of the nine regional FAA offices, the Western-Pacific Regional Office, is located in Hawthorne, a city in Congresswoman Waters' district. This office serves all of Southern California, including LAX. "LAX is one of the largest and busiest airports in the world, and this bill will help to protect the safety of passengers, crew and the surrounding communities in my district," said Congresswoman Waters. "I'm especially pleased that the bill includes over $10 billion for air traffic control modernization, including accelerating NextGen's implementation, and that it includes provisions to the protect the jobs of air traffic controllers." Congresswoman Waters has long been a champion for air traffic controllers, specifically fighting to prevent office consolidation in the Los Angeles area that would result in the loss of many local jobs. She was recently honored by the National Air Traffic Controllers Association with "Champion for Aviation Safety Award." NextGen – the Next Generation Air Transportation System – is a plan to bring air traffic control in the U.S. from a ground operation to a satellite operation, greatly increasing the safety and security of our nation's airports and aircraft and decreasing ground and air traffic congestion. H.R. 1586 would accelerate NextGen's implementation date. ###
03.26.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) announced today that the Department of Transportation has awarded the City of Inglewood a $10 million dollar noise mitigation grant. The City's proximity to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and its inbound and outbound flight paths makes increased funding for noise mitigation efforts essential."The relationship between LAX and the surrounding communities has always been a delicate one because the airport is a major economic hub and job creator, but the noise and pollution that come along with it have a major impact on schools, businesses and homes in my district," said Congresswoman Waters. "This sizeable grant will help Inglewood retrofit windows, doors, siding and insulation to help keep aircraft noise to a minimum." Congresswoman Waters recently lauded another important LAX-related decision for residents of Westchester, who live on the north side of the airport. An extensive study by an academic panel found that a proposal to move LAX's north runways would have a negligible impact on aircraft and passenger safety and is therefore unnecessary. Moving the north runways would have increased noise, air pollution, and other environmental impacts on residents, schools, churches, and businesses. ###
03.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement on the decision by the City of Inglewood to settle with the families of the Mothers Day 2008 shooting victims, one of whom, Michael Byoune, died of his wounds: "Today's settlement of $2.45 million is an important milestone for the families of Larry White, Charles Lark and especially Michael Byoune, who succumbed to his wounds that terrible day in 2008. However there are many unanswered questions about the policies, practices and supervision of the Inglewood Police Department. In the span of three months, three young men – all unarmed – were killed at gunpoint by the officers of the department. In fact, the same officer involved in the death of Michael Byoune was involved in a second fatal shooting later that summer. I immediately called for a DOJ investigation into the policies and practices of the police department, which launched in March 2009. The investigation continues today. The community has lost confidence in the Inglewood Police Department and there is a strong consensus that there must be change, discipline and better management and supervision. I look forward to the continued DOJ investigation and a comprehensive report detailing how the police department can implement reforms to ensure that these kinds of incidents never occur again." ###
03.24.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) circulated three letters to her colleagues to support the following FY 2011 programmatic funding requests: the Minority AIDS Initiative, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, and debt relief for poor countries through the International Development Association (IDA) and the Highly Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Trust Fund. The letters and Member signatures are in the attached documents. ###
03.22.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement as the House of Representatives prepared tonight to vote on historic legislation to improve health care and toughen regulation of the health insurance industry. "Our health care system is broken; no one can deny it. Every day, millions of Americans go without needed health care because they have no insurance. Some of these people work for small businesses and other employers that do not provide insurance. Some of them lost their insurance when they lost their jobs. Some of them were denied coverage by insurance companies because of a pre-existing condition. And some of them simply could not afford the escalating premiums. Even for people with health insurance, a devastating accident or illness can be very expensive. The cost of health care is the number one reason for bankruptcies in America. So we cannot afford inaction. Today, we have a clear choice – to start to fix the broken health care system – or to do nothing. However, this bill is not perfect. I would like to have seen included measures such as a public health insurance option like Medicare that would compete with the private insurance plans and a single national insurance exchange where people could purchase the health plan of their choice instead of separate state-based exchanges with different standards. I believe these measures would be more effective at containing costs and creating competition for the insurance industry. I am also concerned that this bill should not be used to limit the right of women to reproductive choice. Despite the President's Executive Order, attempting to codify existing law under the so-called Hyde Amendment, it is not clear that the Senate bill does not go beyond the Hyde amendment. Nevertheless, I have decided to support H.R. 3590, together with the improvements included in H.R. 4872, because it will make health care more affordable and more accessible for thousands of my constituents and millions of Americans. By passing this legislation today we are taking a critically important step in the right direction. According to an analysis by the House Energy and Commerce Committee, this health care reform bill will benefit California's 35th District in the following ways: Improve coverage for 281,000 residents with health insurance. Extend coverage to 125,500 residents who lack insurance. Guarantee that 21,200 residents with pre-existing conditions can obtain coverage. Allow 58,000 young adults to obtain coverage on their parents' insurance plans. Give tax credits and other assistance to up to 157,000 families and 15,100 small businesses to help them afford coverage. Improve Medicare for 62,000 beneficiaries, including reducing the costs of prescription drugs and closing the donut hole. Protect 1,100 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs. Provide millions of dollars in new funding for 10 community health centers. Reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and other health care providers by $15 million annually. Many provisions of the bill will kick in immediately. Insurance companies will no longer be able to take away a person's insurance because the person gets sick, an unfair practice known as rescission. It will immediately prevent insurance companies from denying coverage to children with pre-existing conditions, and eventually end discrimination against anyone with a pre-existing condition. It will immediately allow young people the ability to remain on their parents' insurance until age 26. It will immediately help seniors pay for prescription drugs and eventually eliminate the donut hole completely. And it will extend tax credits to small businesses so that they can provide health insurance to their employees. Over the next few years, the bill will extend coverage to 32 million Americans, or 95 percent of the population, providing affordability credits for individuals who cannot afford to purchase health insurance on their own. Improving our health care system is essential to setting us on the right path to healthier lives, renewed American innovation, and a stronger, more stable American economy. I urge my colleagues to support this bill and expand access to health care for families and small businesses throughout the United States of America."
03.17.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) joined other Members of Congress today in welcoming over 50 prominent African American ministers to Capitol Hill. The ministers came to Congress to advocate for health care reform and to urge support for H.R. 1964, the National Black Clergy for the Elimination of HIV/AIDS Act. This marks the first time that national African American religious leaders have coalesced around combating the HIV/AIDS epidemic, an issue Congresswoman Waters has long championed. Also participating in the meeting were representatives from the National Black Leadership Commission on AIDS. "Since the discovery of the HIV/AIDS epidemic over 25 years ago, we have watched it wreak havoc on minority communities, disproportionately affecting them in comparison to their makeup of the American population" said Congresswoman Waters. "Almost 50 percent of new HIV diagnoses are in the African American community alone, significantly impacting our community. I am encouraged that the ministers have come here mobilized, educated, and ready to act to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS in our community and in all communities." Congresswoman Waters has made combating HIV/AIDS one of her top priorities in Congress and has been a leading supporter of funding for prevention and treatment. As Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, in 1998 Congresswoman Waters created the Minority AIDS Initiative, which provides grants to community-based organizations and other health care providers for HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs serving African American, Hispanic, Asian American and Native American communities. The Initiative received $402.9 million last year, and for Fiscal Year 2011 Congresswoman Waters and 56 of her colleagues have requested a record $610 million to ensure that the Initiative has the resources needed to combat the AIDS epidemic in these communities. Congresswoman Waters introduced The Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which the House of Representatives passed last year. The bill requires the Bureau of Prisons to test all inmates for HIV upon entering prison and then test them again prior to release, unless the inmate opts-out of taking the test, and requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. She also introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage act last year, which would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. "I applaud the ministers for coming here today to advocate both for efforts to fight AIDS and for comprehensive health care reform legislation. Indeed, these issues are linked, and Americans who are affected by HIV/AIDS will benefit considerably if health care reform is passed" said Congresswoman Waters. "It is imperative that we keep a holistic approach to combating the disease as we work to advocate and care for all affected and at-risk populations." ###
03.16.2010	The FY 2011 Appropriations Requests of Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) can be found in alphabetical order in the attached Excel document. They also appear below in alphabetical order in the following format:Grantee Project Name Address $ Amount Summary### Appropriations Requests, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) A Better LA West Athens/Westmont Project 1150 S. Olive St. Ste 340, Los Angeles CA, 90015 $200,000 ABLA helps to develop relationships between outreach workers and the officers from LAPD and LASD who patrol the West Athens area. This helps outreach workers to be more effective and law enforcement to be more connected to all members of the community. ABLA has also developed the West Athens Community Taskforce whose mission is to address public safety in the West Athens/Westmont area. Both LASD and LAPD have a strong presence on the taskforce and were instrumental in its creation. ABLA has further developed partnerships with three select schools in the area to teach our school empowerment curriculum, which is donated by the Pacific Institute. ABLA is seeking to create a replicable model for transforming inner-cities and is subsequently highly cognizant of the assessment and tracking of our program. ABLA collects baseline data to compare to the collected final outcomes and to be able to review the findings and make necessary changes and or improvements to the project. Asian American Drug Abuse Program, Inc. Cultural Education and Academic Tutoring Project (CEAT) 14112 South Kingsley Drive, Gardena, CA 90247 $83,490 The CEAT project will support families by providing a free structured academic and social development program in a safe and nurturing environment. This academic component focuses on Vietnamese children ages 6-11 years of age. The children will receive homework assistance with a focus on reading and writing skills. Tutoring in English and school subjects occurs Tuesdays and Thursdays from 3:30 – 5:30 pm. This project offers tutoring assistance for students whose English proficiency is limited. We have bilingual tutors who are fluent in English and Vietnamese. Course work concentrates on developing fundamental English skills in a group and individual settings. The Vietnamese immigrant community of Los Angeles is relatively new, and as such, grapples with issues of racial and economic parity, linguistic isolation, access to resources, distrust of institutional entities, and inter-generational and inter-racial conflict. Given the specific needs and unique history of this community, it is critical that the Vietnamese immigrant population is not overlooked. This project would reduce the various stressors and risk factors that Vietnamese youth face on a daily basis and help them acclimate to American life. Beyond Shelter Early Intervention Demonstration Project for At-Risk Families in South Los Angeles Affected by the Economic Recession 1200 Wilshire Blvd. Suite 600, Los Angeles, CA 90017 $400,000 The Early Intervention Demonstration Project is demonstrating a cost-effective way to address barriers to service delivery and access to resources and services for at-risk families impacted by the economic recession. Through the provision of crisis intervention and "services coordination", at-risk families will access a variety of critical services via a single-point-of-contact in a community. During fiscal year 2010, Beyond Shelter has been implementing an innovative, one-stop Crisis Intervention Center for at-risk families in South Los Angeles who have experienced job loss/income reduction and housing instability, as a result of the economic recession. The Demonstration Project will continue to stabilize at-risk households economically, physically, and emotionally, while promoting labor market participation. The Demonstration Project is testing and will evaluating the efficacy of a practical application in Los Angeles that will be replicable in other neighborhoods in L.A. County and throughout the country. Centinela Valley Union High School District Modernization of the Machinery for the School of Engineering at Hawthorne High School 14901 South Inglewood Avenue, Lawndale, CA, 90260 $200,000 Students in the School of Engineering at Hawthorne High School reside in the low socio-economic urban community of Hawthorne which also borders the city of El Segundo, home of some of the world's largest aerospace corporations. The School of Engineering provides its students with advanced training in both the programming and manufacturing aspects of engineering. This training and education also teaches the students valuable skills and professional traits sought after by local employers. The academy's industry partners, who provide internships for the academy students, are pleased with the student's current level of expertise; however, they understand the need for the students to understand and be able to operate current, industry-standard machinery in order to meet the growing needs of the industry. Modernization of the students' outdated and obsolete machinery is critical in the advancement of their students' training and skill sets. City of Gardena Emergency Operations Center 1700 West 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247-3778 $400,000 The City of Gardena is seeking funding to make infrastructure improvements/adjustments and to procure office equipment, electronics and communications equipment, including: GPS technology, radio equipment, mapping software and devices, threat assessment/response software, etc. It would be immensely valuable to the community to create a new Emergency Operations Center, located within the new Transportation Facility. Nearly seventy percent of the police priority call load comes from this area, so in an effort to be more accessible, provide a greater sense of security and safety, Gardena's Police Department and Bus Lines will collaborate to provide a higher quality of public safety communication and public service for Gardena and neighboring cities. The Emergency Operations Center will be moved from the basement of the Police Department to the new Transportation Facility. City of Gardena Gardena Senior Day Care & Alzheimer's Clinic 1700 West 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247-3778 $500,000 Funding would be used to assess the current building conditions, make appropriate health and safety code upgrades, and rehabilitate the general condition of the building's interior and exterior, making it not only safe, but conducive to the important activities and services it provides to Gardena's senior citizens. The Gardena Senior Day Care Center provides care to an average of 40 patients per day. Programs improve the quality of life of participants by preventing premature or inappropriate institutionalization; planning and implementing supportive socialization and rehabilitation programs for older adults who are experiencing memory loss, dementia, or Alzheimer's disease. Additionally, the Center provides respite and support services to caregivers and family members in the community. City of Gardena Public Works Infrastructure Projects 1700 West 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247-3778 $1,000,000 In conjunction with the revitalization of the Rosecrans Corridor, the City of Gardena is seeking to make street improvements to alleviate traffic congestion and encourage commercial expansion of this area. The road resurfacing and widening of the Crenshaw and Artesia Boulevard area will allow for safer and an increased flow of both local and through traffic. Improvements to this blighted area on Rosecrans Avenue will incorporate landscaping and amenities to provide an attractive street to spur development. These improvements will benefit local commuters on the roadways, stimulate the economy, provide employment opportunities and encourage business development in the Rosecrans Corridor. City of Gardena Economic Development Program on the Rosecrans Corridor 1700 West 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247-3778 $300,000 The Rosecrans Corridor is a blighted area in great need of improvements, composed of many aging, industrial buildings that are in deterioration and decline. Revitalization is in the interest of the general welfare of the immediate neighborhood and community. This is an ongoing process, including the establishment of a Business Improvement District to attract business and provide supplementary services for existing businesses i.e. new signage, cleaning and maintenance services, bike patrols, graffiti removal and private security. Ultimately, this project will provide benefits by ensuring clean business areas, increasing area safety, growing customer base and encouraging job creation. City of Hawthorne Hawthorne Blvd. & 130th Street Improvements 4455 W. 125th Street, Hawthorne, CA $300,000 The project entails installing a new traffic signal at the the intersection of Hawthorne Blvd. and 130th Street, reconstructing and modifying the median island to accommodate new dedicated left turn pockets on both north and south legs of Hawthorne Blvd., construction of bow outs at all four legs of the intersection, upgrading the crosswalk with in raised/stamped pavement modifications, and adding pedestrian countdowns signal. City of Hawthorne Rosecrans Avenue & Isis Signal Improvements 4455 W. 125th Street, Hawthorne, CA $200,000 The current signal configuration at the Rosecrans/Isis intersection creates significant back ups into the Rosecrans through lanes and weaving and unsafe turning movements which are a serious concern to the residential community directly to the north of Rosecrans/Isis and the businesses to the south. The City is improving the Rosecrans/405 intersection just to the east of this interesection to improve traffic flow and safety and the Rosecrans/Isis intersection is the remaining bottleneck in the Rosecrans corridor and requires upgrading to improve safety, turn movements and traffic congestion. City of Hawthorne/South Bay Workforce Investment Board South Bay Centers for Sustainable Technology Education 11539 Hawthorne Boulevard, 5th Floor, Hawthorne, California 90250 $1,039,000 When developed, the South Bay Centers for Sustainable Technology Education (the Centers) will serve as demonstration sites for environmentally sustainable manufacturing process, and inter-segmental workforce education in Sustainable Lean Manufacturing. These facilities will show how U.S. manufacturing can be conducted in a manner that is cost effective and efficient, less harmful to the environment, increasingly compliant with state, federal and local environmental regulations, and responsive to consumer demands for sustainable, manufactured products. City of Inglewood Law Enforcement Technology Upgrades and Infrastructure Improvements One Manchester Blvd, Post Office Box 6500, Inglewood, CA 90312 $500,000 The Inglewood Police Department is the seventh (7th) largest municipal law enforcement agency in Los Angeles County servicing a large, urban, economically and culturally diverse community, consisting of more than 115,000 residents. Funding is requested to upgrade the current computer-aided dispatch (CAD) system that is outdated and does not possess the current technology necessary to support the operations of the City's Police Department. The Police Department is unable to fully integrate the records management system (RMS) with the mainframe-based CAD or current crime analysis mapping software. The system would also allow officers to receive mapping overlays sent directly to their mobile digital terminals that would contain critical information regarding a call for service and crime trends developed by the Crime Analysis Section. City of Inglewood Water System Reliability Program One Manchester Blvd, Post Office Box 6500, Inglewood, CA 90312 $400,000 Incorporated in 1908 the City of Inglewood serves a constituency of 112,600 persons, located on the Coastal Plain adjacent to the Baldwin Hills in Los Angeles County. The City is responsible for domestic water supply to 14,000 customers. The City completed a water master plan update in 2005 which identified several major improvements to its water system. The programs and projects described herein will increase water system reliability for domestic and fire suppression supplies within the City's water service area. This effort will be completed in time to provide definitive input as to specific projects which will be initially addressed under the proposed "Water System Infrastructure Program" (WSIP). This program is considered to be a significant first step and of primary importance toward reaching the City's goal of a more effective and efficient water supply and storage system. The City is completing a Well Siting Study for two new Hi-Capacity Water Supply Well facilities in conjunction with its WRDA Section 219(f) funding for FY 2011. This project will provide for the final design of the wells and transmission pipeline connection to the City's system, which will provide additional groundwater supplies to the City thus reducing its dependency upon less reliable and costly imported water sources. The well will connect to the City's existing water main transmission system through a connecting transmission pipeline facility, which is part of the project as well. City of Inglewood City-wide Sewer System and Preservation and Expansion One Manchester Blvd, Post Office Box 6500, Inglewood, CA 90312 $660,000 The City of Inglewood needs to upgrade the City's water, sewer and storm drainage infrastructure due to age and the difficultly sustaining the high level of maintenance required to ensure water supply reliability and water quality, as well as provide sanitary drainage facilities. City of Lawndale Storm Drain Improvements Project 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA, 90260 $500,000 This project will install a new storm drain line on 153rd Street, Sayler Avenue, Firmona Avenue and Rixford Avenue. The project entails design, hydrology and hydraulic studies, and construction of approximately 3,500 linear feet of 36" Reinforced Concrete Piping, 24 catch basins and 8 manholes. 153rd Street, Sayler Avenue, and Rixford Avenue serve residential neighborhoods, major arterials, and elementary schools. During storm events the streets flood causing traffic hazards, safety concerns, and damage to the roadway pavement. At intersections, flooding creates hazards for school children and parents in route to school. Over time, flooding has damages the pavement and alligator cracking is prominent. At the root of the problem, is a poor drainage system and streets with flat grades. This project will address flooding & drainage problems. The completion of this project would prevent any additional damage to the roadway and mitigate traffic and pedestrian hazards. City of Lawndale 147th Street and Burin Avenue Street Improvement Project 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA, 90260 $300,000 The 147th Street and Burin Avenue Project is a street improvement project that would allow for a more efficient use of a segment of right-of-way while acting as a "place-making" project that would knit City Hall, the Lawndale Library, and the new Lawndale Community Center into a cohesive Civic Center. The project would establish a "gateway" into the Civic Center and create an easily identifiable link to the City's major thoroughfare. City of Lawndale Construction of a New Community Center 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA, 90260 $500,000 The project consists of the design and construction of a new permanent Community Center. Designs include an approximate 18,000 square foot facility to be located directly across from City Hall and a new Los Angeles County Library. The scarcity of available public space within the city would make the new Community Center the basis for community events, and enable the City to provide a Civic Center type environment for the constituents of Lawndale. City of Lawndale Inglewood Avenue Widening Project 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA, 90260 $1,500,000 Inglewood Avenue is a major arterial with regional significance, it connects neighboring cities, three major freeways and fronts schools, residences, and commercial businesses. Inglewood traffic volumes have exceeded available capacity. During peak hour traffic, Inglewood Avenue is heavily congested causing long traffic queues and safety concerns. This capacity enhancement project will mitigate congestion issues, improve Level of Service, circulation, and pedestrian safety. As a note, Inglewood Avenue is part of the Los Angeles County Congestion Management Plan Roadway System and the Southern California Association of Governments (SCAG) Metropolitan Transportation System. City of Lawndale Manhattan Beach Boulevard Modernization Project 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA, 90260 $1,440,000 Manhattan Beach Boulevard is a major arterial of regional significance that carries a significant volume of traffic and provides scenic interest. Within the project limit, existing uses bordering the boulevard consist of residential, retail commercial, and industrial. School children, parents, college students and motorist use Manhattan Beach in route to Anderson Elementary, Will Rogers Elementary school, El Camino College and neighboring cities. There are numerous Southern California Edison (SCE) facilities that pose safety concerns and degrade scenic views. Facilities consist of overhead power lines and power poles. Of particular concern, the power poles are leaning in various directions thereby threatening public safety. The absence of landscaping further degrades scenic views. This project will mitigate safety issues and increase scenic interest. City of Lawndale Traffic Signal Improvements Project 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA, 90260 $680,000 The City of Lawndale is centrally located in the South Bay. As such, the City's major arterials serve high volumes of pass-thru traffic in route to neighboring cities, freeways, and key destinations. Over the last few years, congestion has increased steadily and in need of mitigation. A second concern is pedestrian and bicyclist safety. The high volumes of traffic threaten safety. The Traffic Signal Improvement Project will mitigate traffic congestion impacts, improve circulation, synchronize traffic signals, and improve pedestrian and bicyclist safety. Furthermore, the project will result in increased reliability and visibility. City of Los Angeles Jordan Downs Gang Reduction & Youth Development ("GRYD") Zone $600,000 The creation of the new Jordan Downs GRYD Zone would occur in conjunction with the re-development of the Jordan Downs public housing development operated by the Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles ("HACLA"). The re-development plan includes a demolition of the Jordan Down housing development's 700 units, to be replaced with 2,100 new units that will include a mix of public, affordable, workforce, and market-rate housing. In implementing this re-development plan, HACLA is focusing not just on the physical buildings that constitute the Jordan Downs housing development but also on the residents of Jordan Downs and creating various elements that will develop a sustainable community. Specifically, HACLA is formulating a wide array of social, counseling, and job training services for the low-income residents of this housing development. The ultimate goal of this re-development plan is not just to house the Jordan Downs residents in nicer apartments but to help uplift this whole community from poverty and gang-violence into a safe, middle class community. Community Centers Inc. Save South Los Angeles (SSLA) 7518-26 So. Vermont Ave, Los Angeles, CA 90044 $600,000 The Save South Los Angeles (SSLA) program addresses the imminent needs of constituents in and beyond the South Los Angeles communities. Community Centers Inc. programs have served to decrease Ex-Offender Recidivism and Crime Rate, Gang Activity and Affiliation, and reduce the High School Drop Out Rate, while opening doors to New Careers, providing access to Education, Training and creating opportunities for Work Force Diversity in many industry sectors i.e. Technology, Entertainment, Visual and Performing Arts, Media, Photography, Cinematography, Lighting and Sound Engineering, Set Building, Green Construction with an emphasis on Solar Paneling Installation and Healthcare including Medical Coding and Medical Billing, Housing Services, Financial Literacy. El Camino College Foundation Math and Science Teaching Laboratory 16007 Crenshaw Blvd., Torrance, CA 90506 $86,064 The El Camino College Math and Science Teaching Laboratory will serve as a support center for Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) teachers to expand on their knowledge and skills. Current and future teachers will have access to a variety of teaching tools and professional development services, in addition to a centralized place to meet and discuss curriculum and other pedagogical issues. Through the program, we expect to cultivate an increased number of science and math teachers who will be available in public schools to educate students who will eventually be ready for careers/majors in STEM fields. El Camino College Foundation Expansion of the MESA Program 16007 Crenshaw Blvd., Torrance, CA 90506 $155,000.00 The El Camino College MESA Program provides support to students who are majoring in math or science so they excel academically and transfer to four-year institutions. MESA offers enrichment in mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, and other related sciences; academic excellence workshops; career planning and transfer assistance; leadership training; mentoring; and internship opportunities. Scholarships and financial aid assistance are also available – since 2004, 22 MESA students have been awarded the MESA National Science Foundation Scholarships for a total amount of about $285,000. In addition, MESA has a successful transfer history: since the program began in 1999, more than 265 students have successfully transferred to a university. El Camino College Foundation Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics (STEM) Center Endowment for the Future 16007 Crenshaw Blvd., Torrance, CA 90506 $300,000 El Camino College is in the process of creating a Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) Center, which will function as a hub of all STEM-related programs at the college as well as provide support and inspiration to students who are considering math, engineering and science majors or careers in applied technology. The Center will also support K-12 math and science teachers within the ECC district by providing opportunities for collaboration, training and experimentation. A major concern for the Center is covering the ongoing salary costs. In light of the fluctuation in community college funding from the state, it is imperative that the Center have a dependable and sustainable source of funding for staffing needs. Adequate staffing is critical to the effectiveness of the programs associated with the Center. Establishing an endowment would provide reliable funding that would ensure that appropriate staffing levels were maintained. Gardena Municipal Bus Lines Municipal Transit Operators Coalition Clean Fuel Bus Purchase 20500 Madrona Avenue, Torrance, CA 90503 $500,000 The Federal Transit Administration's "Useful Life Policy" for transit vehicles calculates the life span of a heavy duty articulated transit bus to be 12 years. Because of this policy, MTOC members are seeking federal funding to assist in their bus replacement efforts. Inglewood School District STEM-UP Inglewood School District 401 S. Inglewood Ave., Inglewood, CA 90301 $1,000,000 STEM-Up Inglewood is a program that integrates STEM career pathways into schools and local communities using the strategy of Awareness, Inspiration, Motivation, and Skills of teachers, parents, and students. These careers will be critical for future generations to maintain the United States' current status as the world's technology leader. Year One will consist of the development of a STEM-UP baseline study, which will assess the community based readiness for STEM as a career pathway. This will include a review of current curriculum, student progress to degree, and career pathway initiatives. Los Angeles County Flood Control District Compton Creek Reevaluation of Los Angeles County Drainage Area (LACDA) 915 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 980, Los Angeles, CA, 90017 $900,000 The requested funds will be used by the United States Army Corps of Engineers for an engineering study to reevaluate Compton Creek within the Los Angeles County Drainage Area. The study will address flood risk mitigation, ecosystem restoration, and water quality along Compton Creek and throughout its watershed. Funds will also be used to reevaluate opportunities for projects to increase flood protection provided by the creek, where necessary, as well as to investigate the viability of incorporating additional enhancements and groundwater recharge. Los Angeles County Flood Control District Dominguez Channel Flood Risk Mitigation Reconnaissance and Feasibility Studies 915 Wilshire Blvd, Suite 980, Los Angeles, CA, 90017 $300,000 This project will be a valuable use of taxpayer funds since the requested funding will be used by the United States Army Corps of Engineers for a Reconnaissance Study of the Dominguez Channel to assess its current and required levels of flood protection. Funds will also be used to initiate a Feasibility Study for a project to increase the flood protection provided by the channel, where necessary, The Feasibility Study will also investigate the viability of incorporating environmental enhancement opportunities into the project. Funding this project is a valuable use of taxpayer funds because it will lead to mitigating the identified flood risks, which could reduce mandatory flood insurance requirements and reduce the cost of flood insurance premiums for thousands of residents. Mitigating these risks and reducing the need and cost of flood insurance could significantly benefit the residents as well as the commercial and industrial interests in the local community. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority South Bay Metro Green Line Extension One Gateway Plaza, Los Angeles, CA, 90012 $1,000,000 The South Bay Metro Green Line Extension includes the addition of 4.6 rail miles from its current terminus at the Metro Green Line Marine Station in Redondo Beach to the proposed Torrance Regional Transit Center (RTC) in the South Bay area of Los Angeles County. The Los Angeles MTA is seeking funding for the Draft Environmental Impact Statement/Report (DEIS/R) for the South Bay Metro Green Line Extension. The project serves major activity centers including LAX, a large office/employment/high tech cluster in El Segundo, the South Bay Galleria, and Central Torrance's concentration of commercial, retail and residential uses through out the corridor. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority Crenshaw / LAX Transit Corridor Final Environmental Clearance and Preliminary Engineering One Gateway Plaza, Los Angeles, CA, 90012 $1,000,000 This project will allow for environmental and preliminary reports concerning the Crenshaw/LAX LRT project. By connecting the Crenshaw / LAX corridor with Downtown Los Angeles, the Westside, and the South Bay, the line provides important job and economic development opportunities for the corridor, a historically transit-dependent, underserved and underdeveloped area of Los Angeles County. The line serves important cultural destinations (Leimert Park Village), commercial and employment centers (such as downtown Inglewood) and regionally-significant transportation facilities (Los Angeles International Airport). The LRT line also allows the existing Metro Green Line to connect to Los Angeles International Airport. Los Angeles Southwest College Los Angeles Southwest College Student Success Transition Program 1600 West Imperial Highway, Los Angeles, CA 90047 $895,000 This project would establish an institutional program/process that enhances LASC's capabilities in increasing retention of students through successful completion in certificate and degree programs using student success teams and mentors. It would enable residents in an area of Los Angeles with one of the highest unemployment rates in the State an opportunity to be trained in a unique setting which would give them the skills needed to obtain a job in one of the few growth areas in the country as well as completion of other certificate and degree requirements. This unique approach, which provides a team approach that addresses both academic needs and other external issues, will lead to increase skill certificates and degrees attained by students that lead directly to jobs or further professional training. Loyola Marymount University Center for Math and Science Teaching 1 Loyola Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90045 $650,000 LMU proposes to expand its highly successful CMAST Program into the L.A. Unified School System – where only 37% of students are proficient in math - with the goal of improving existing dismal CST math scores and increasing the number of effective teachers in math and science in the L.A. Unified School District. CMAST will provide a unique national model for training science and math teachers in a way which will significantly improve student performance in those areas and improve teachers' ability to move students towards college readiness by the time they graduate from high school. Richstone Family Center R.E.A.C.H. 13634 Cordary Avenue, Hawthorne, CA 90250 $250,000 REACH is an ongoing, fully operational program which forms the foundation of Richstone's mission to prevent and treat child abuse. REACH is designed to achieve the following goals- provide child victims and their families with therapy that promotes healing, prevent abuse and keep children safe and in their homes: improve parent-child interactions by providing education and information for at-risk parents; strengthen parents coping abilities and reduce their isolation through support services and provide enrichment opportunities for children and families to enhance healthy functioning. Services include: individual, group and family counseling,parent-child interaction therapy (PCIT), anger management classes, home visitation and case management, parenting classes and after-school programming. SHIELDS for Families South Los Angeles Vocational Services Center 11601 S. Western Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90047 $500,000 The South Los Angeles Vocational Services Center will utilize a comprehensive, collaborative, multi-disciplinary, culturally appropriate, ‘one stop shop' service delivery model to provide a continuum of educational and vocational training, placement, and other services to support and improve economic independence, marketable employment skills, and increase the likelihood of acquiring and maintaining stable employment for individuals that have been unable to succeed in the traditional employment system. This center will ensure educational and vocational training and placement for populations at high-risk for living in cycles of poverty. The Children's Dental Center of Greater Los Angeles Community The Children's Dental Center of Greater Los Angeles Community Outreach, Planning, Marketing, and Clinical Training Initiative 300 E. Buckthorn Street, Inglewood, CA 90301 $250,000 The proposed project will expand the work of The Children's Dental Center of Greater Los Angeles founded in 1995 to help economically disadvantaged families have access to excellent oral health services for their children. In LA County the insurance programs available for economically disadvantaged families including Healthy Families and Denti-Cal are faced with additional potential reimbursement caps cuts and access challenges this year. In 2009, the Center delivered 9,220 dental visits, screened 18,000 children, and educated more than 48,000 children and their families. Patients range from six months to 22 years. 75 percent are Latino, 20 percent are African American and 5 percent Caucasian, Asian, or other ethnicities. The families that come to the Center live at or below 250 percent of the Federal Poverty Guidelines, are completely uninsured or rely on Healthy Families/Delta Dental or Denti-Cal. In addition, an estimated 50 jobs will be created. These jobs will be clinical, administrative, medical, dental, and educational. Umoja Community Expansion and Statewide Development Umoja Community of the CA Community College 25555 Hesperian Blvd., Rm. 132B, Hayward, CA 94545 $430,000 Through this project the Umoja Community will work with ten community college campuses acrossCalifornia to codify standard practices and materials into models that will lead to the scaling up and replication of Umoja Community model programs to additional schools in California and across the nation. At the end of the project a ‘manual' of best practices and training methods will be distributed to all colleges with an Umoja program as well as colleges interested in starting an Umoja program. The manual will be a living document that can be modified for specific regions and used nationally as a program replication document. The programs we seek to codify include peer and professional mentoring;program design and efficacy; Historically Black Colleges and Universities transfer program; materialdistribution and college recruitment; data collection, and leadership development. University Muslim Medical Association (UMMA) Community Clinic Fremont High School-Based Health Center 711 West Florence Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90037 $75,000 For more than 10 years, UMMA Community Clinic has served as a quality provider of low- and no-cost health care to some of the most medically indigent areas of South Los Angeles. We have been given the opportunity to partner with the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) to open a second site: a school-based health center (SBHC), open to the entire community, at John C. Fremont High School. The new site will significantly increase our capacity to provide primary and specialty care to medically indigent youth and adults in our service area, thereby enhancing public health while promoting economic recovery through the creation of new clinical and construction jobs. Water Replenishment District of Southern California Regional Groundwater Monitoring Program – groundwater monitoring well 4040 Paramount Boulevard, Lakewood, CA 90712 $740,000 The Water Replenishment District of Southern California's (WRD) Regional Groundwater Monitoring Program can help reduce Southern California's reliance on imported water from the delta and the Colorado River basin; and "drought proof" the region. WRD will construct a groundwater monitoring well for expected use during the next 20 years to monitor and protect the quality of the groundwater where there are water quality and water level data gaps. The monitoring well will become part of the District's existing network of 253 wells at 54 locations which h collects and archives depth-specific data used to manage the basins; detects groundwater contamination; and tracks water levels and changes in groundwater storage. This project will benefit water rights holders, their residential and business customers, and the public by protecting the quality and supply of groundwater and preventing basin overdraft in this area, thereby optimizing the use of local water resources. National Programming Reach Out and Read Reach Out and Read programming 56 Roland Street, Suite 100 D, Boston, MA 02129 $10,000,000 Reach Out and Read is a national evidence-based school readiness initiative that promotes literacy and language development in infants and preschoolers, targeting children and families living in poverty and under-performing school districts. Fourteen peer-reviewed, published research studies spanning the last two decades clearly demonstrate the impact of the Reach Out and Read model and the importance of promoting early language and literacy skills in preparing children to excel in school. Today, Reach Out and Read serves 3.8 million children annually, but millions more children nationwide do not receive the necessary support and assistance they need to develop these critical skills and enter kindergarten ready to learn. Funding provided by Congress through the U.S. Department of Education has been matched by tens of millions of dollars from the private sector and state governments. Teach for America Teach for America programming 315 West 36th Street, New York, NY 10018 $50,000,000 These funds will be used to recruit, select, train and provide professional development to top recent college graduates of all academic majors who commit two years to teach in our nation's highest poverty communities. This funding will set Teach For America on the path to double in size by 2016, with nearly 17,000 teachers positively impacting the achievement levels of more than one million underserved students each year in more than 60 low-income regions in nearly all 50 states. In addition, our more than 52,000 alumni at this scale form a proven pipeline of talented leaders.
03.11.2010	The House of Representatives passed the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573), authored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), last night. This legislation directs the United States to seek the cancellation of Haiti's debts to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and other multilateral development institutions. The Senate is expected to adopt the Congresswoman's bill this week, clearing the way for President Obama to sign it into law. "I am pleased that my bill to cancel Haiti's debt held by multilateral development institutions is set to become law. Debt relief is essential for Haiti's future. However, we must also keep in mind the immediate needs of survivors who, without adequate shelter, will be further subjected to the elements and to disease during the upcoming rainy season. I applaud the efforts of our government, military, and charitable organizations for the assistance they have provided thus far, and I will be doing everything in my power to continue to work with them to alleviate the suffering and attend to the basic needs of the Haitian people." Having returned from Haiti earlier this week – her second trip there since the earthquake in January – the Congresswoman continues to sound the alarm about the need to urgently provide more shelter to the hundreds of thousands of Haitians whose homes were destroyed. Many Haitians are living outdoors in makeshift camps, and the upcoming rainy season is putting them at greater risk of flooding and disease. The Congresswoman has repeatedly called on the international community to deliver and distribute durable tents to Haitians and has raised the issue with Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and other officials. "My second trip to Haiti since the earthquake only reaffirms what I've long known – the situation for hundreds of thousands of homeless Haitians is going to rapidly deteriorate when the heavy rains and hurricanes soon begin," said Congresswoman Waters. "Malaria, typhoid, scabies and other highly infectious and deadly diseases are going to spread like wildfire unless a comprehensive plan is implemented to acquire thousands more durable shelter units and set them up safely, sustainably, and immediately." During her trip to Haiti last weekend, Congresswoman Waters: • Met with the U.S. Ambassador to Haiti Kenneth Merten, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) Ambassador Lou Luck, who is coordinating on-the-ground humanitarian efforts, and the UN Coordinator for Humanitarian Relief; • Brought food and supplies to Cité Soleil, the poorest neighborhood of Port-au-Prince, an area where residents have received little or no assistance from relief groups since the earthquake; • Reviewed a food distribution operation in Pétionville led by a non-governmental organization; • Toured a large camp that is housing approximately 12,000 survivors and was taken by locals to a camp unknown to relief workers where 700 people live. After Congresswoman Waters alerted USAID of the camp's presence, USAID entered the camp into its database so it could be evaluated and will receive relief supplies moving forward; • Discussed contracting opportunities for local workers with 150 Haitian business leaders and the USAID Contracting Officer, and reviewed some of the "jobs for cash" programs currently under way; • Visited a temporary shelter demonstration site, showcasing different forms of shelter; • Attended a "cluster" meeting at Bo-Jeux Parc where recovery and response efforts are coordinated and saw an army-grade medical tent she secured during her previous visit to Haiti being used by medical care providers to deliver babies; and • Brought a U.S. seismologist to the country to study aftershocks and share information with Haitians about the potential for future disasters and what can be done to prevent widespread devastation. "What really resonated with me during this trip was the stark reality of just how long it will take Haiti to recover and rebuild," said Congresswoman Waters. "Many areas of Port-au-Prince are still not being regularly serviced by relief workers – and some camps are subsisting completely on their own. The coordination and organizational efforts are clearly under way, but I am well aware that it remains a work-in-progress. Much more must be done to provide all Haitians with food and clean water, secure shelter, and economic livelihood." Congresswoman Waters was among a select group of Members of Congress at an event yesterday at the White House with President Obama and Haitian President René Prevál, having been invited in recognition of her leadership on assistance for Haiti. Also attending were representatives of non-governmental organizations and foundations involved in the relief effort, Haitian-American community leaders and members of Urban Search and Rescue teams from Los Angeles and other cities. ###
03.09.2010	The funeral mass for Father Donald Merrifield, who served as president of Loyola Marymount University from 1969 to 1984, was held today. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), who represents Westchester, where the LMU campus is located, released the following statement: "Donald Merrifield was instrumental in making Loyola Marymount University the great institution that it is today. LMU is a center of learning for students in Los Angeles, a major employer in the district I represent, and considered among the best universities in the country. Father Merrifield served as president of the school for 15 years, including overseeing the merger in 1973 of Loyola University and Marymount College into LMU, and under his leadership the school grew significantly. Many of the buildings that are so familiar to us when we visit the LMU campus were constructed under his leadership. I believe however that his greatest accomplishment was not changing the campus physically but rather changing the composition of the student body. Having grown up in Inglewood, he knew the community, and he believed that the university had a responsibility to serve our increasingly diverse population. President Merrifield was committed to providing educational opportunities for African American and Latino students. He implemented recruiting efforts to attract more students of color to LMU and made it possible for more minority students to enroll by increasing financial aid, including creating scholarships. He also helped to establish support services for minority students and to create a curriculum with relevant courses including African American and Chicano/Latino studies. His success in making LMU a more diverse, more inclusive school has benefitted thousands of students and alumni. While Donald Merrifield will certainly be missed by all friends of Loyola Marymount, he has left a lasting legacy for which we are grateful." ###
03.04.2010	Legislation introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to cancel all debt owed by Haiti to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and other multilateral institutions was passed by the House Financial Services Subcommittee on International Monetary Policy and Trade during a markup today following a subcommittee hearing on debt relief for Haiti. The legislation could be voted on by the entire House of Representatives as early as next week. A longtime advocate for Haiti, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act (H.R. 4573) shortly after the devastating earthquake struck Haiti. "Haiti faces enormous challenges now, and the burden of paying off foreign debt would prevent the nation from taking necessary steps to help its people at this perilous time. I introduced H.R. 4573 so that Haiti can use its limited resources to make both immediate and long-term investments in essential humanitarian relief, reconstruction and development efforts," said Congresswoman Waters. H.R. 4573 requires the Secretary of the Treasury to instruct the U.S. Executive Directors at the World Bank, the IMF, the IDB and other multilateral development institutions to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to do the following: 1. cancel immediately and completely all debt owed by Haiti to these institutions; 2. suspend Haiti's debt service payments to the institutions until the debt is canceled completely; and 3. provide additional assistance to Haiti in the form of grants so that Haiti does not accumulate additional debt. H.R. 4573 also requires the Secretary of the Treasury to commence immediate efforts to urge other bilateral, multilateral, and private creditors to cancel immediately and completely all debts owed by Haiti to such creditors. The subcommittee also passed a Manager's Amendment to Congresswoman Waters' legislation offered by Subcommittee Chairman Gregory Meeks (D-NY) and drafted in conjunction with Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA). The Manager's Amendment adds a provision directing the U.S. Executive Director to the IMF to advocate that some of the excess profits from the sale of IMF gold, which Congress approved last year, be used to provide debt relief and grants to Haiti. The amendment also adds updated statistics on Haiti's debts to the bill's findings and makes other technical changes. Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, owes $828 million to multilateral development institutions according to the U.S. Department of the Treasury. This includes $447 million to the IDB, $284 million to the IMF, $39 million to the World Bank, and $58 million to the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), a specialized agency of the United Nations. Congresswoman Waters has previously helped Haiti and other poor countries obtain debt relief and just last year was instrumental in encouraging the World Bank and the IMF to cancel $1.2 billion of Haiti's debt. Congresswoman Waters said, "Haiti had been making progress since suffering extensive damage caused by a series of hurricanes in 2008. The Government of Haiti successfully developed and implemented a comprehensive Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, under the direction of the IMF and the World Bank, in order to qualify for debt relief, and last year's debt cancellation helped to move Haiti in the right direction. We must help Haiti continue to move forward despite the considerable obstacles it now faces, and this is only possible with additional debt cancellation." Congresswoman Waters plans to travel to Haiti this weekend, her second trip there since the earthquake, in order to assess relief and reconstruction activities. She is particularly concerned about the need to provide shelter to hundreds of thousands of Haitians whose homes were destroyed. Many Haitians are living outdoors in makeshift camps, but the rainy season will arrive soon putting them at greater risk. Congresswoman Waters has called on the international community to distribute durable tents to Haitians to help meet their immediate needs for shelter, and on her upcoming trip she will monitor the progress of efforts to provide tents. ###
02.24.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted today to ensure that American consumers get a real choice and a fair deal when purchasing health insurance. The Health Insurance Industry Fair Competition Act, which the House passed by a vote of 406-19, will take away the anti-trust exemption for health insurance companies, requiring them to compete fairly and adhere to the same anti-trust laws as other companies. "For too long, Americans have been ripped off by health insurance companies that don't play by the rules," said Congresswoman Waters. "Every day people are denied coverage, see their premiums rise, and make tough choices about paying the bills or paying for medicine – all while the insurance companies are jacking up prices and turning record profits. Enough is enough." In 1945, under the McCarran-Ferguson Act, the health insurance industry became legally exempt from anti-trust laws, and the federal government was banned from even investigating evidence of possible collusion between health insurance companies. In the last 14 years alone, there have been 400 mergers among health insurers and now 94% of all insurance markets are "highly concentrated" – meaning consumers have little or no choice between insurance providers. "By enjoying an exemption from anti-trust laws that apply to almost all other businesses, health insurers are able to rake in exorbitant profits at the expense of American families," said Congresswoman Waters. "Congress has the responsibility to fix this broken system and end the industry's predatory and anticompetitive practices." Health insurers that were previously exempt from anti-trust laws will now bear legal responsibility for price fixing, dividing up territories among themselves and sabotaging their competitors in order to gain a monopoly in the marketplace. Such practices have been outlawed in other industries for decades. "WellPoint's Anthem Blue Cross health insurance company recently announced that it will increase the cost of premiums in California for individual policyholders as much as 39 percent. Insurance rates in other states and for other companies are also going up by double digits. This is further evidence the current health system is not sustainable," said Congresswoman Waters. "Clearly, comprehensive health care reform is urgently needed, and this legislation will be instrumental in achieving two main objectives of any meaningful reform: lowering costs and increasing consumer choice." The legislation is supported by numerous groups including the American Hospital Association, American Nurses Association, American Academy of Pediatrics, Consumers Union, Consumer Federation of America, Center for Justice and Democracy, and U.S. PIRG. ###
02.24.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement after the U.S. Government settled for $1.25 billion with black farmers who were discriminated against by the U.S. Department of Agriculture: "For decades, black farmers repeatedly faced discrimination when dealing with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) through bureaucratic loan processes and through a lack of access to capital, resulting in limited or no crop yields and lost income. So the recent decision by the Obama Administration to settle for $1.25 billion with black farmers is a milestone that cannot be underestimated. I have long been involved in assisting black farmers with their cases and advocating for their rights and reimbursements in Congress. As Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus, I convened the first Congressional hearing on the issue in 1997. And I worked closely with my colleagues in the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) to urge then-Attorney General Janet Reno to waive the statute of limitations so that farmers could redress decades of financial and racial discrimination with the Department of Justice. So we cheered the 1999 landmark decision in Pigford v. Glickman, a class action lawsuit against the USDA, which has led to payments of approximately $50,000, to date, for over 13,000 farmers. However, we know that many farmers were immediately caught up in government bureaucracy after the Pigford settlement. Though the 1999 decision allowed some farmers to advocate for more money if they could demonstrate higher losses, many applications were deliberately discarded or denied and the many thousands of farmers who missed the government's original deadline, for a variety of reasons, were left without recourse and were again denied their right to reimbursement. In the following fiscal year, I introduced and supported amendments that would assist small farmers caught up in this process, set up mediation services under Pigford v. Glickman's consent decree, and elevate the civil rights office at USDA to an Assistant Secretary post. But the fate of the black farmers denied justice time and again hung in the balance and remained largely in limbo. So a decade later, we are celebrating what has come to be known as Pigford II. I would especially like to recognize and commend the tireless work of National Black Farmers Association founder and President John Boyd Jr. throughout this entire process. His consistent advocacy on behalf of black farmers has never wavered, and I know I speak for my colleagues and for black farmers when I say we all appreciate and admire his passion and dedication to civil rights. The Justice and Agriculture Departments have now cleared the way for Congress to act and expedite cash payments and debt forgiveness to the farmers who were denied justice ten years ago; I am grateful that the Obama Administration has taken a strong position on this issue. I look forward to working with my colleagues in Congress to approve this settlement, which will send a strong signal that the U.S. Government is standing up for its past mistakes and committed to helping some of its most vulnerable citizens during these tough economic times." ###
02.22.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) spoke today to the National Air Traffic Controllers Association and accepted an award of appreciation from the organization. In her speech, the Congresswoman detailed her longtime advocacy on behalf of NATCA, specifically addressing her efforts to prevent office consolidation in Los Angeles, which would result in the loss of many jobs for local workers. The text of the Congresswoman's prepared remarks appears below: "Thank you so much! I would like to thank Sam Samad, the Local President of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association (NATCA), for all of those kind words. And I thank all of the NATCA members for honoring me with this award! I would also like to thank Bill Withycombe, the Western-Pacific Regional Administrator for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), for joining us today. I appreciate your willingness to work with NATCA members and with my congressional office on issues affecting Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and the surrounding community. Regional Office Consolidation I am proud to have worked with NATCA to stop the forced relocation of NATCA employees at the FAA's nine regional offices. The local employees of the FAA's Western-Pacific Regional Office in Hawthorne brought this issue to my attention back in 2005. They met with me in my Westchester office and informed me that the FAA was planning to consolidate the Air Traffic Organization (ATO) and force the ATO employees at six of the FAA's nine regional offices to relocate. They explained the hardships the proposed relocation would have imposed on experienced FAA employees, not just in Hawthorne, but in several other offices, such as those in Des Plaines, Illinois, and Burlington, Massachusetts. They also helped me understand the detrimental effects that regional office consolidation would have on the FAA's operations at LAX and other busy international airports. • I quickly wrote a letter to then-FAA Administrator Marion Blakey expressing my concerns about the proposal to consolidate the Hawthorne office and explaining why it would be bad for LAX customers, bad for safety, and bad for FAA employees. • On March 1, 2006, I met with then-Transportation Secretary Norman Mineta to discuss the issue. • On April 27, 2006, I sent a letter to Secretary Mineta expressing concerns about the effects of forced relocation on the employees of the Hawthorne office. This letter was signed by Senators Feinstein and Boxer and twelve Members of Congress from the Los Angeles area. • I also testified before the Committee on Transportation's Subcommittee on Aviation during a hearing on "Air Traffic Control Modernization," on June 21, 2006. • On July 20, 2006, I sent another letter to FAA Administrator Blakey, requesting that the planned consolidation of the regional offices be suspended. This letter was signed by 24 Members of Congress, including the Senators from the states of California, Massachusetts, and Illinois. One of the signers is now the President of the United States! • On September 20, 2007, I offered an amendment to the FAA Reauthorization Act to prohibit consolidation of the regional offices by the FAA without congressional oversight and consultation with employees. (The bill already prohibited consolidation of the FAA's field offices and air traffic control facilities without oversight and consultation.) The House of Representatives passed my amendment on a voice vote and then passed the entire FAA Reauthorization Act and sent it to the Senate. (Unfortunately, the Senate failed to act on the bill.) By the fall of 2007, I became concerned that the FAA's various consolidation proposals were part of a larger pattern, which suggested that the FAA may have been planning to close the Hawthorne office completely. In 2005, the FAA relocated financial accounting services from the Hawthorne office to Oklahoma City. In 2006, the FAA relocated the Air Traffic Organization's administrative and technical support services from the Hawthorne office to the regional office in Seattle. And by 2007, the FAA was considering plans to consolidate the engineering services at the Hawthorne office and transfer experienced engineers from that office to the Seattle office. • On October 18, 2007, I wrote to Mr. Robert A. Sturgell, the Acting FAA Administrator, expressing my concern about the proposed relocation of experienced FAA engineers and inquiring whether the FAA was planning to close the Hawthorne office. • On January 24, 2008, I wrote to Acting Administrator Sturgell, urging that the FAA suspend plans to consolidate the engineering services at the regional offices and consult with Members of Congress regarding the future of the regional offices. This letter was signed by 35 Members of Congress, including then-Senator Barack Obama. • On June 30, 2008, I wrote a follow-up letter to Acting Administrator Sturgell, urging that the FAA respect the will of Congress and not restructure the engineering services without congressional oversight and public input. • Finally, on December 19, 2008, following the election of Senator Barack Obama as President of the United States, I wrote to Mr. Henry Krakowski, the Chief Operating Officer of the FAA's Air Traffic Organization, urging once again that the FAA suspend their engineering services consolidation plan, which had come to be known as the Engineering Services Efficiency Plan (ESEP). In this letter, I reminded Mr. Krakowski that the President-elect had signed one of our previous letters. I was relieved when I finally learned that the FAA had changed its approach to ESEP. The FAA is continuing to consolidate the engineering services at the regional offices, but it is now doing so only by means of voluntary transfers. There will be no forced relocations. Security Breach I am proud to have worked with NATCA to stop the consolidation of the regional offices. And I am equally proud to have worked with NATCA on other issues. On February 1st of last year, someone from outside of the FAA "hacked" into an FAA computer and accessed 48 computer files, including files that contained the names and Social Security numbers of more than 45,000 FAA employees. This security breach reportedly occurred at the Western-Pacific Regional Office. NATCA employees brought this issue to my attention and informed me of their concern that some FAA employees would be penalized for allegedly causing the incident without a full investigation to determine who was actually responsible. On June 17, 2009, I wrote to Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood, expressing my concerns about this security breach. I requested a full review of all actions taken in response to the breach including efforts to determine what caused it. I also asked to be informed regarding whether any management or non-management FAA employees had been penalized and, if so, how it was determined that the individuals in question were responsible. Unfortunately, Mr. Samad has informed my staff that the FAA still has not explained what caused the security breach. Furthermore, while a few employees were penalized for the breach, no one in the FAA's management was ever held responsible. Conclusion Air traffic controllers play a critical role in protecting the flying public. So do the engineers and technical support staff at the regional offices. I am proud to accept this award from the dedicated employees of NATCA, and I am proud to support your work." ###
02.19.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today applauded President Obama's decision to provide $1.5 billion in funds to housing finance agencies in the five states most severely affected by the foreclosure crisis – California, Nevada, Arizona, Michigan and Florida. The funds can be used for a number of programs that help mortgage borrowers, including programs championed by Congresswoman Waters that would assist unemployed homeowners in making their mortgage payments. "As Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, I am pleased that the President has decided to take additional steps to help homeowners avoid foreclosure and support state programs similar to those I have advocated for in Congress," said Congresswoman Waters. "Experience over the last year has demonstrated that current loan modification programs aren't doing enough. This $1.5 billion is a good start towards advancing the legislation that I authored, and that the House passed last December, to provide $3 billion in additional assistance to homeowners at-risk for foreclosure," the Congresswoman said. Congresswoman Waters led a group of Congressional Black Caucus lawmakers in securing $3 billion for unemployed homeowners under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, which passed the House of Representatives in December. Under the legislation authored by Congresswoman Waters, homeowners nearing foreclosure, and with reduced income as a result of unemployment, underemployment or a medical condition, would be eligible to receive low-interest loans from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to help them stay in their homes. The President's plan would allow the five state housing finance agencies to create new programs to help homeowners, based on the unique needs of their states. It is likely that the housing finance agencies would adopt programs similar to the one Congresswoman Waters authored last December to assist unemployed homeowners nearing foreclosure. Each of the five states targeted under President Obama's initiative have experienced above average rates of unemployment, along with home price declines of 20 percent or greater, relative to the height of the housing bubble. The $1.5 billion will be allocated among the five states according to a formula based on home-price declines and unemployment. "In California, one in every 21 homes received a foreclosure filing in 2009. And the rate of homeowners falling behind on mortgage payments is more than 50 percent higher in my state compared to the nation as a whole. In the Los Angeles metropolitan area, over 175,000 homes received a foreclosure filing last year. It is clear that more resources are critically needed," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters has led congressional efforts to address the needs of vulnerable homeowners and assist neighborhoods devastated by foreclosures. The Congresswoman authored legislation to create the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP), which helps cities and states fight foreclosures, home abandonment and blight and restore neighborhoods. Congresswoman Waters secured $6 billion in funding for NSP, along with another $1 billion that passed the House under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009. Through two rounds of NSP funding, the City and County of Los Angeles have received nearly $210 million in grants. ###
02.19.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) – whose District includes Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) – cheered today's decision by the panel tasked with analyzing LAX expansion to keep the north runways in their current configuration and not expand into neighboring communities. "This decision is a crucial victory for residents that live near the airport, all of whom are my constituents," said Congresswoman Waters. "This is an issue we have been focused on for years and one that has often evoked passionate debate in our community. I am happy to say today that residents can rest assured knowing that their homes are safe." A joint panel between the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and academic experts reached this conclusion after studying five different scenarios, one of which was to do nothing. The other scenarios would have encroached upon homes in Westchester and Playa del Ray, communities in the Congresswoman's District, forcing families to uproot their lives. Additionally, the expansion or relocation of runways also impacts the inbound and outbound flight patterns. Inglewood, the geographic center of Congresswoman Waters' district, would have been subjected to increased noise pollution. "For years I have heard from constituents who were literally at their wit's end, unsure of the future of their homes," said Congresswoman Waters. "LAX is an important economic hub in my District, but this decision is the right one because it preserves schools, businesses and homes without mitigating air travel or decreasing safety standards." "I applaud the panel's decision, and look forward to working in a continued, constructive manner with LAX and with local organizations and resident groups to make sure that everyone fulfills their neighborly obligations." ###
02.09.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement following the death of Congressman John Murtha (PA-12): "I am deeply saddened to learn of the passing of my friend and colleague Congressman John Murtha. His family and friends, the people of Pennsylvania's 12th District, and his colleagues in Congress have lost a larger-than-life figure who will truly be missed. My thoughts and prayers are with Congressman Murtha's family and friends during this very difficult time. Congressman Murtha was an effective public policy maker, a leader and an expert on defense matters who didn't hesitate to speak out on what he believed in. The entire Congress looked to him for leadership on this and other matters, for his words of wisdom often related just as much to life as they did to public policy. A crowd of regular Members gathered around his seat on the House floor every day, asking him for advice or just chatting with him. I know I and the other Members that occasionally stopped by will miss visiting him there too, and hope that we can memorialize his seat with a plaque so that current and future Members will always be reminded of the man that sat there. During my chairmanship of the Out of Iraq Caucus, Congressman Murtha provided important advice and strategy. A decorated military veteran and the first Vietnam combat Veteran to serve in Congress, he spoke out early and forcefully on the need to bring our troops home from Iraq. He took a lot of heat for his stance, but he was so principled and so well respected that it didn't stop him from advocating for what he believed in. And his commitment to the troops was unwavering. Many Sundays he visited wounded soldiers at Walter Reed Army Medical Center here in Washington. Congressman Murtha was adamant about their care, and understood so well what it truly meant to be there for our brave men and women in uniform. He always was a voice encouraging them they could overcome, they could get well, and they had a life ahead of them. He was also a very friendly man. Congressman Murtha never hesitated to compliment other Members on their public policy successes and even on their attire. He was always impeccably dressed himself, and I am going to miss being able to compliment him on his beautiful ties and stylish suits. I will miss him terribly, and I know that the people of Pennsylvania's 12th District have lost a tireless advocate on their behalf. Let us all take comfort in his decades of work as a public official and the legacy that he leaves behind." ###
02.09.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) cheered today's report that the nation's overall unemployment rate fell to 9.7 percent in January from 10 percent in December, but she expressed concern that African American unemployment jumped from 16.2 to 16.5 percent during the same period – almost double the rate of white unemployment, which fell to 8.7 percent. In fact, since November 2009 unemployment for African Americans has increased by almost an entire percentage point. Hispanic Americans also face record high unemployment at 12.6 percent."It's painfully clear that African Americans and Latinos continue to bear the brunt of this economic recession," said Congresswoman Waters. "More must be done. We cannot in good conscience welcome these numbers without acknowledging the disparity that exists between the general population and communities of color. As lawmakers we must not shy away from targeted public policy that seeks to address the specific and unique issues facing minority communities." Congresswoman Waters recently led efforts to secure assistance for communities that are still reeling from the effects of the recession. She led a group of Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) lawmakers on the Financial Services Committee in securing $4 billion within the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 for unemployed homeowners and devastated communities dealing with the foreclosure crisis. The Congresswoman also voted for the House Jobs on Main Street Act in December, which provides $75 billion for highways and transit, school renovation, hiring teachers, police, and firefighters, small businesses, and job training. It also extends emergency unemployment benefits, COBRA and Medicaid health benefits, and cuts taxes by making the Child Tax Credit available to all low-income families."Having been a leading advocate in securing emergency funding for job creation and unemployment benefits, I realize that we must also focus on long-term strategies to put all Americans back to work, particularly in the African American and Hispanic communities," said Congresswoman Waters. "Our country's economic recovery won't be as strong or complete if some communities continue to suffer from long-term unemployment." She vowed, "I am going to redouble my efforts in Congress to make sure that job-creation solutions benefit all Americans." ###
02.04.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced the Debt Relief for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti Act of 2010 (H.R. 4573), legislation to cancel Haiti's debt to multilateral financial institutions so that the nation can focus its limited resources on rebuilding after the devastating earthquake and not be burdened by payments to the World Bank, International Monetary Fund (IMF) and other creditors. The bill has more than thirty bipartisan cosponsors. "I'm introducing this legislation to cancel the $709 million owed by Haiti to the multilateral financial institutions," said Congresswoman Waters. "Considering the enormous toll from the earthquake, we must ensure that all of Haiti's remaining debt to these institutions and other international creditors is cancelled so that Haiti can make both short- and long-term investments in relief, recovery, and development." Congresswoman Waters' legislation would require the Treasury Department to use the voice, vote and influence of the United States in multilateral financial institutions to: 1) cancel immediately and completely all debts owed by Haiti to such institutions; 2) suspend Haiti's debt service payments to such institutions until such time as the debts are canceled completely; and 3) provide additional assistance to Haiti in the form of grants so that Haiti does not accumulate additional debts. The bill also requires the Treasury Department to begin immediate efforts to ensure that other bilateral, multilateral, and private creditors cancel immediately and completely all debts owed by Haiti to such creditors. In addition to introducing legislation, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner urging him to help cancel Haiti's debt. The letter was signed by 94 Members of Congress, including Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank, and Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen. "The array of problems that Haiti faces right now is compounded by foreign debt," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am encouraged by initial statements by World Bank President Robert Zoellick and IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn that they are already considering measures to cancel Haiti's debt. I encourage their prospective debt cancellation plans to also include providing grants so that Haiti can begin the arduous process of rebuilding." Congresswoman Waters has been a longtime advocate for Haiti and a leading proponent of debt cancellation for Haiti and other poor countries. Just last year she was instrumental in getting the World Bank and the IMF to cancel $1.2 billion of Haiti's debt. The Congresswoman introduced this latest legislation following her recent return from Haiti, where she saw the untold levels of death, destruction, and destitution caused by the earthquake several weeks ago. "Haiti had been making progress since suffering extensive damage by a series of hurricanes in 2008, and last year's debt cancellation helped to move Haiti in the right direction. Unfortunately, it seems like one step forward, three steps back. We cannot allow Haiti to bear the additional burden of expensive debt payments following this most recent tragedy," said Congresswoman Waters. More information about work that Congresswoman Waters has done related to Haiti can be found here. ###
02.01.2010	Following her recent return from Haiti, where she met with residents of makeshift camps without adequate shelter, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) is highlighting the urgent need for more tents to be delivered to Haiti as quickly as possible. She sent a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton emphasizing that tents are needed before the impending rainy season in Haiti, which will further subject hundreds of thousands of earthquake survivors to exposure to the elements and the spread of disease. The text of the letter is below: January 29, 2010 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State Department of State 2201 C Street, NW, Room 7226 Washington, DC 20520 Dear Secretary Clinton: I just returned from Haiti where I witnessed the death and despair caused by the earthquake. In the midst of this devastation, I was encouraged by the thousands of dedicated officials of the U.S. Government who are working throughout the country to address the tremendous needs of those affected by this disaster. I write today to convey to you the urgent need for tents for the hundreds of thousands of people who have been displaced from their homes. Tents are absolutely essential to provide shelter during the rainy season, which is barely one month away. The rainy season will increase exposure to the elements and cause diseases to spread if people are not adequately sheltered. Tents must be at the top of the short-term priority list. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has estimated that between 800,000 and one million people have been displaced. I personally saw countless people living on the streets with no place to go. Many of these people have been seriously injured, and some are recovering from amputations. Thousands of people have open wounds that have not even begun to heal. If these wounds are exposed to contaminated rainwater or runoff, diseases could spread quickly and widely, adding to the suffering and public health crisis. While I was in Haiti, I met with Ms. Kim Bolduc, the Deputy Special Representative of the Secretary General of the United Nations, who is in charge of humanitarian affairs and relief efforts. She informed me that Haiti needs at least 220,000 tents prior to the impending rainy season. I also met with Haitian President René Préval, who said that tents were the nation's number one priority and that the country needs at least 250,000 of them. Moreover, when I met with Mr. Tim Callahan and other members of the USAID team, they too emphasized the importance of shelter. I urge you to take all necessary and appropriate action to procure and distribute enough tents to provide shelter to all Haitians who need them before the rainy season begins. Please keep me informed of your actions in this regard. I look forward to working with you to provide shelter to those affected by the earthquake and to address all of their needs. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress cc: Dr. Rajiv Shah, Administrator, USAID ###
01.29.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) has returned to the United States after wrapping up a three-day mission in and around Port-au-Prince, Haiti. Concerned about the death and devastation caused by the earthquake and eager to evaluate the progress of recovery and aid distribution efforts, Congresswoman Waters made arrangements to travel to Haiti without requiring the State Department or military to divert resources to support her trip. While there, she visited a number of the makeshift hospitals and refugee camps that have sprung up around the capital. "Words cannot adequately describe the ongoing humanitarian disaster that is unfolding in Haiti," said Congresswoman Waters. "The earthquake has left behind untold levels of death, despair, and outright destitution. Though I am encouraged by the thousands of military, government, and nongovernmental operations that are happening all over the country, there is a critical need for macro-level organization and coordination of the relief effort." During her time in Haiti, Congresswoman Waters met with Haitian President René Préval, officials from the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the U.S. Embassy and the U.S. Department of Defense, representatives from the United Nations (UN) and the World Food Programme (WFP) and staff from numerous nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Congresswoman Waters observed that many organizations and individuals are attempting to respond to the crisis in Haiti. Many of these various organizations are convening in cluster meetings, an internationally recognized disaster response mechanism. But she concluded there is an overwhelming need for better communication among the various entities and a coordinated response, despite the valiant attempts of all the parties involved. One major obstacle hampering operations in the country is the extensive damage to infrastructure such as buildings, telecommunications, roadways, and the port, which the Congresswoman said has resulted in "a logistical nightmare." In addition to gathering information, Congresswoman Waters was able to secure direct assistance for people in need by picking up the phone and requesting help. For example, a call from the Congresswoman to USAID resulted in two tents and other medical supplies – provided by the Los Angeles County Fire Department, which deployed its urban search and rescue team to Haiti to assist with rescue and recovery efforts – for the health NGO Amer-Haiti and the National Organization for the Advancement of Haitians (NOAH) that are seeing up to 300 patients a day. Within hours of receiving the new equipment, their teams performed an operation to save a pregnant woman and her child. "USAID and the L.A. County firefighters, who acted heroically and bravely for more than 10 days in Haiti, were able to come through again for those patients, and I was glad that I could make a difference for even a few people, but of course millions of people in Haiti need our help now" said Congresswoman Waters. "Although that mother and her baby are fine, the concern for them and for the thousands of other patients in and around Port-au-Prince is their ongoing care. We need to continue to deliver clean tents, medical supplies, and health personnel so that the hundreds of amputations and other major surgeries being conducted around the clock can be as safe and successful as possible." Basic survival remains an immediate concern for Haitians right now. Access to food, water, and medical supplies is sporadic, and shelter and open space continue to be in high demand. President Préval estimates that the country needs approximately 250,000 tents to adequately house Haitians in need. Congresswoman Waters said, "tents are absolutely essential because the impending rainy season will further spread disease and increase exposure to the elements if people are not adequately sheltered. Tents must be at the top of the short-term priority list." Additionally, experts on the ground continue to raise concerns about reaching victims in the outlying, mountainous areas of the capital. Some areas of Port-au-Prince have been inaccessible for deliveries of food, water and supplies. "What has really resonated with me since returning home is the need for the international community to engage in robust and sustained recovery and rebuilding efforts for Haiti," said Congresswoman Waters. "The outpouring of initial support from the international community has been so heartfelt and overwhelming, and I know that the Haitian people are extremely grateful. I am pleading with every individual, NGO, corporation, and government worldwide to continue to look into their hearts, into their schedules and into their wallets to find out how they can help." Congresswoman Waters vowed, "I plan to double my efforts to assist Haiti in Washington. In addition to introducing legislation to completely cancel Haiti's debt from multilateral financial institutions and other international creditors, I will work closely with former President and UN Special Envoy to Haiti Bill Clinton, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, and my colleagues in Congress to continue to pursue creative and substantive ways to assist the country during its immediate time of need and in the months and years ahead." ###
01.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) has co-sponsored legislation to help find missing persons. The Help Find the Missing Act (H.R. 3695), which was introduced by Congressman Chris Murphy (D-CT), would assist in identifying missing people and solving cases involving those who are missing. The legislation directs the U.S. Attorney General to share information on missing persons and unidentified human remains contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) Missing and Unidentified Person File database with the NamUs database, establishes a grant program to assist in the reporting of missing persons and unidentified remains information to the NCIC and NamUs databases and to issue a report to the offices of medical examiners, offices of coroners, and federal, state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies describing the best practices for collecting, reporting, and analyzing data and information on missing persons and unidentified human remains. In her statement for today's hearing of the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism and Homeland Security on H.R. 3695, Congresswoman Waters cited the case of Mitrice Richardson, a young woman from Los Angeles who disappeared in September and has been missing since. Congresswoman Waters has been working with Mitrice's family and law enforcement officials investigating the disappearance. The text of Congresswoman Waters' statement follows: Thank you, Mr. Chairman for organizing this hearing to discuss H.R. 3695, the "Help Find the Missing Act," and how we can strengthen and expand private citizens' access to the Department of Justice's databases on missing persons and unidentified remains. I also want to thank our panel of witnesses for their participation in today's hearing and commend my colleague Rep. Chris Murphy for his work on this very important issue that has impacted many Americans across the country. I know that many of us have constituents who have missing loved ones, and we are fully aware of the despair and hopelessness many experience in their efforts to find relatives who have disappeared. Unfortunately, current procedures and policies seem to frequently fail the families of missing individuals. This is especially true for missing persons who are neither children nor senior citizens because there are special practices established for those groups. The number of missing adults in America who are never found is staggering. Unfortunately, all too often ill-informed local law enforcement authorities fail to give families access to helpful databases. Last September, a young woman from my district named Mitrice Richardson went missing under questionable circumstances. While I won't elaborate now on the specifics of the case, I believe the local authorities could have done more, earlier in the process, to assist Mitrice's family. Nonetheless, since her disappearance, Mitrice's family has courageously mounted a formidable public campaign to find her. While some would simply be unable to gather the strength to endure the daily prospect of not knowing if they will see their loved one again, Mitrice's family has mobilized the community both to find her and to hold local officials accountable for some of the missteps they took early in the investigation. Only after months of television appearances, mass mailings, and petitions organized by Mitrice Richardson's family and friends did the Los Angeles Police Department begin to devote the necessary resources to find her. Our constituents believe local law enforcement should have the necessary training and resources to investigate and find their missing relatives. Sadly, not every family or friend of missing adults will have the time, energy, and resources to devote towards their own private search and investigation. Regardless, we cannot expect family members to act alone in such cases. It is the responsibility of law enforcement to inform relatives of all available databases and information at their disposal so that the family may feel more involved in the search for their missing loved one. Each year, tens of thousands of Americans are reported missing and are never found. Although no accurate estimates exist of the number of missing adults, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) reported that as of January 1, 2008, over 50,000 missing adult cases were pending in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC). In addition to the NCIC, in 2007, the Justice Department established the NamUs database, an online repository for information about missing persons. While NCIC access is limited to law enforcement officials, the public can access the NamUs database and submit information regarding a missing person. However, law enforcement officials are not legally required to submit information on missing adults to either database. If enacted, H.R. 3695 would establish a grant program to provide incentives for law enforcement agencies, coroners, and medical examiners to enter information about missing persons and unidentified remains into the NCIS and NamUs databases. The bill further provides for increased coordination among the databases by directing the Justice Department to transmit information about missing persons and unidentified person from the NCIC database to the NamUS database. The families of missing Americans endure great hardship and emotional pain, and we must ensure that our local authorities are adequately trained and employ all available resources and tools in order to assist families of missing persons. This is critically important, especially in cases involving missing adults, where effective coordination and information-sharing systems among authorities is frequently lacking. Therefore, Mr. Chairman, I look forward to hearing testimony from our witnesses so that we can begin to address some of the failures related to local law enforcement handling of cases involving missing adults. I believe that H.R. 3695 would help improve investigations. I am especially pleased that the legislation would require the Department of Justice to issue a report to law enforcement agencies, coroners, and medical examiners concerning best practices for collecting reporting information about missing and unidentified persons. While the FBI does not typically investigate all cases involving missing adults, it can certainly do more to provide our local and state authorities with vital tools and information so that they can be more helpful and effective in their investigations of missing adults. ###
01.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent the following letter today to Haitian President René Préval: December 23, 2009 His Excellency René Préval President of Haiti c/o Embassy of Haiti 2311 Massachusetts Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20008 Your Excellency: I am writing to express my concerns about the decision of Haiti's Provisional Electoral Council (CEP) to exclude more than a dozen political parties from the Parliamentary elections scheduled for February and March 2010. I am concerned that these exclusions would violate the right of Haitian citizens to vote in free and fair elections and that it would be a significant setback to Haiti's democratic development. As you know, I have a longstanding commitment to supporting democracy and development in Haiti. I led efforts in the United States Congress to obtain debt cancellation for Haiti. These efforts culminated in the World Bank's announcement last June that Haiti reached the "completion point" for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative and would receive complete cancellation of its multilateral debts. I am also working to increase United States bilateral assistance to Haiti. It is imperative that Haiti's next elections be free and fair and that they be perceived as free and fair. Political parties should not be excluded from an election without a legally compelling reason, determined through a transparent, impartial process. The CEP, to my knowledge, has not provided a public, written explanation for the exclusions of the political parties from the upcoming elections. The CEP's failure to explain the justification for the political parties' exclusions for almost a month raises questions about the validity of these exclusions. The fact that the decision was made by a provisional CEP – one chosen by your office from a list of nominations from organizations selected by your office rather than according to the 1987 Constitution – also raises questions about the fairness of the process. I urge you to take appropriate action to ensure that the upcoming elections in Haiti are free and fair. This includes taking appropriate action to ensure that the CEP: a) provides a complete, public explanation for the exclusions; and b) allows any political party that was excluded for anything less than a clear, compelling legal reason to fully participate in the February elections. Please communicate with The Honorable Hillary Clinton, Secretary of State of the United States; The Honorable Eliot Engel, Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere; and myself regarding the measures you take in this matter. I look forward to continuing to work with you to support democratic development in Haiti. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress cc: Hon. Hillary Clinton, Secretary of State of the United States The Honorable Eliot Engel, Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere ###
01.25.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), presided over a field hearing of the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, which she chairs, to assess how the foreclosure crisis has affected the availability of public and assisted housing in Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota. The hearing, entitled "The Impact of the Foreclosure Crisis on Public and Affordable Housing in the Twin Cities," took place at the Minneapolis Central Library and featured testimony from U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) administrators, local housing officials and state legislators, along with affordable housing advocates and constituents affected by the foreclosure crisis. Joining Congresswoman Waters were Congressman Keith Ellison (D-MN), a member of the Subcommittee who represents Minneapolis, and Congresswoman Betty McCollum (D-MN) who represents St. Paul and who was considered a member of the Subcommittee during the hearing. "Today's hearing on the foreclosure and affordable housing crises in Minnesota was quite telling," said Congresswoman Waters. "I was particularly struck by the fact that for the two days the Minneapolis Section 8 voucher waiting list was open, over 15,000 families requested applications. Though the need for housing assistance is large even in the best of times, the foreclosure crisis and recession have made more and more Minneapolis families vulnerable." The Congresswoman has long recognized the need to connect the foreclosure crisis with the need for more public, assisted and affordable housing. Nearly two years ago, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Neighborhood Stabilization Act to provide grants to state and local governments to purchase foreclosed housing and convert it into affordable housing for low- and moderate-income families. The Congresswoman was able to authorize the Neighborhood Stabilization Program and secure $4 billion in NSP funds under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, and another $2 billion in the stimulus package that Congress and President Obama put together and passed in February 2009. Most recently, the Congresswoman led a group of Congressional Black Caucus lawmakers in securing an additional $1 billion in NSP funds under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, which passed the House of Representatives in December. This third round of NSP funding is pending in the Senate. Under the first round of NSP funding, the Minneapolis-St. Paul area received nearly $14 million in grants and the State of Minnesota received an additional $39 million. Under the second round of funding, announced last week, the City of Minneapolis received about $19.5 million in funding, while the City of St. Paul received $18 million. "Like my home city of Los Angeles, Minneapolis has some model approaches for how to successfully deal with the glut of foreclosed housing," said the Congresswoman. "I am impressed by the relationships Minneapolis has developed with lenders which enable the city to buy foreclosed housing before speculative investors swoop in. This way, foreclosed housing can become rental and ownership opportunities for people in the community, instead of sitting vacant while an investor allows the property to deteriorate and waits for the market to turn around." Witnesses also reiterated the importance of funds under the stimulus package in preserving the supply of affordable housing and creating jobs for Minnesotans. Under the stimulus bill, the Minneapolis Public Housing Authority (MPHA) received $18.2 million in funds. MPHA has put nearly 96 percent of funds to work on "shovel ready" public housing repair projects. Additionally, under the stimulus bill, Hennepin County and the City of Minneapolis received $6.5 million to deal with the increase in homelessness caused by foreclosures and the recession. "I thank Congressman Ellison for encouraging us to hold this field hearing in Minneapolis and for his dedication to housing issues. The testimony today has reiterated the fact that the increase in foreclosed and vacant housing unfortunately hasn't improved housing affordability for vulnerable households," said Congresswoman Waters. "However, I am hopeful about the impact of NSP funds so far, along with the ideas I heard today from witnesses. With a continued federal focus on assisting communities, we can empower public housing authorities and local governments to create more affordable units while also stabilizing communities." ###
01.20.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced today that she is introducing legislation to cancel Haiti's debt to multilateral financial institutions such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which now stands at $664 million. During a press conference with the Congressional Black Caucus, Congresswoman Waters said, "I am introducing legislation to require the United States Secretary of the Treasury to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States within the multilateral financial institutions to cancel all of Haiti's remaining debts, and I hope all of my colleagues will support it. Canceling Haiti's debts will free up the country's meager resources, allowing it to begin meeting its immediate and long-term needs." The Congresswoman is also circulating a letter among her colleagues seeking support for further debt relief for Haiti. Congresswoman Waters has been a longtime advocate for the fair treatment of the Haitian people. Just last year, she secured $1.2 billion in debt relief for Haiti from these very multilateral institutions. Congresswoman Waters said, "We were able to accomplish debt relief for Haiti last year, believing it to be an important step forward so the country could focus on investing in health care, education, and infrastructure vitally important to the Haitian people. However, we now know that not only will all of Haiti's resources be needed to deal with this disaster; the international community will also need to continue to make urgent and sustained donations to the country." Congresswoman Waters recently partnered with The Coalition in Solidarity with Haiti in Los Angeles to rally the local Haitian community and share information about the U.S. government's response to the disaster and how to help. She also voted yesterday to help earthquake victims in Haiti by offering an immediate tax benefit to Americans who make charitable contributions to aid the region. This bipartisan legislation, passed unanimously by the House of Representatives, will allow individuals to claim any donations to the relief effort as an itemized deduction on their 2009 tax return, instead of waiting to claim it on their 2010 return. "I have been moved and inspired by the outpouring of support from America for the Haitian people," said Congresswoman Waters. "This bill acknowledges the many Americans who have donated millions of dollars to charitable organizations, including through wildly successful texting campaigns. I believe that this important change to the 2009 filing laws will inspire more Americans to donate to Haiti during its critical time of need, and I encourage them to do so." The House is also expected today to pass H. Res. 1021, a resolution expressing condolences to, and solidarity with, the people of Haiti. Congresswoman Waters is an original co-sponsor of the resolution. ###
01.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent the following letter to Speaker Nancy Pelosi, reiterating the provisions she would like to see in the final health care bill: Dear Speaker Pelosi: I appreciate your willingness to listen to the views of progressive Members of Congress during the Democratic Caucus' conference call on health care last week. However, I believe it is important to reiterate that certain provisions are critical for inclusion in the final, merged health care reform bill. I urge you to press for the following provisions: • A single national exchange, that will allow individuals to choose from a variety of quality health plans that comply with federal standards. • A public option within the national exchange to compete with private health plans (as provided in the House bill). • Sufficient subsidies to make health plans affordable for American families, specifically the subsidies provided in the House bill for individuals and families below 250% of the federal poverty level (FPL) and the subsidies provided in the Senate bill for those between 250% and 400% of FPL. • The earliest possible implementation date, and no later than January 1, 2013 (as in the House bill). • A strong employer mandate that requires employers (except small businesses) to offer health insurance to their employees (including both full-time and part-time employees) and contribute at least 65% of the premiums for family policies and 72.5% for individual policies; and that requires all employer-sponsored plans to comply with federal standards (as in the House bill). • An 8% payroll tax imposed on those employers who choose not to comply with the mandate (as in the House bill). • Financing through a surcharge on taxpayers who earn over $500,000 instead of excise taxes on health insurance (as in the House bill). • Full repeal of the anti-trust exemption for health insurers. • An increase in payment rates for primary care providers under Medicaid to 100% of Medicare payment rates in order to ensure quality care for Medicaid recipients (as in the House bill). • Assistance to state governments to cover 100% of the cost of newly eligible Medicaid recipients for the first two years and at least 91% of the cost thereafter (as in the House bill). • Sufficient funding for Disproportionate Share Hospitals (DSH), which serve large numbers of uninsured patients in my district and nationwide, and if DSH funding cuts are unavoidable, no cuts beyond those provided in the House bill. • A prohibition against insurance companies' discrimination against children with pre-existing conditions effective immediately (as in the Senate bill). • Elimination of the Medicare donut hole (as in the House bill). • Significant efforts to address health disparities across all federal agencies and programs involved in health policy. • No restrictions on immigrants' ability to purchase health insurance on the exchange with their own money (as in the House bill). • No restrictions on abortion coverage beyond those in current law. Thank you for your consideration of my views. Please continue to keep me and other progressive Members informed of your progress. I look forward to continuing to work with you to pass comprehensive health care reform for the American people. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
01.15.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) will join The Coalition in Solidarity with Haiti and the larger Haitian Los Angeles community in an emergency meeting to discuss ways to assist Haiti following the massive earthquake and unfolding humanitarian crisis that have devastated the country. WHAT: Congresswoman Maxine Waters joins with The Coalition in Solidarity with Haiti, inviting the Haitian Community to an emergency meeting regarding the ongoing humanitarian crisis in Haiti. WHEN: Sunday, January 17th at 1:00 p.m. WHERE: Full Gospel Apostolic Church of God/ La Mission Chretienne D'Haiti 4749 W. Adams Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90016 ###
01.14.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) joined Councilmember Bernard Parks and Board of Public Works Commissioner Valerie Shaw today to announce that she helped to successfully resolve a dispute between Park Mesa Heights homeowners and the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA). As a result the homeowners in the area, which is part of the Hyde Park neighborhood in Los Angeles, will not be required to purchase costly flood insurance. The Park Mesa Heights area had recently been designated by FEMA as a flood plain for the very first time, but this designation was questionable because the area had never flooded. In addition, FEMA's maps were a departure from the original maps issued in the 1980s, which showed that the area was not prone to flooding. On FEMA's flood map, the area in question is roughly shaped like a half-circle and is generally bounded by Hyde Park Boulevard to the south, 5th Avenue to the west, West Slauson Avenue to the north and Arlington Avenue to the east. Speaking from a Park Mesa Heights resident's home, Congresswoman Waters said, "I thank Councilmember Bernard Parks for contacting me about this problem and sharing the views of his constituents, who objected to the designation of their neighborhood as a flood zone. I was immediately concerned because it didn't seem right, and I know that flood insurance is extremely costly for homeowners, especially when they are mandated to purchase it." Homeowners who are in a flood plain and who have a federally related mortgage loan are required to purchase flood insurance. If they don't purchase it, their mortgage servicer must purchase it for them, often at much higher rates. "Homeowners who don't need flood insurance shouldn't be forced to purchase it. It is an unnecessary expense and a real burden in these tough economic times," Congresswoman Waters stated. As Chairwoman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, which has jurisdiction over the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) administered by FEMA, Congresswoman Waters began communications with FEMA in order to understand why the area had been designated as a flood plain and to request FEMA reconsider its decision. FEMA requested additional data from Los Angeles County and found that there were flaws in the flood map. As a result, FEMA informed the Congresswoman that it would revise its maps so that the area is no longer in the flood plain. In addition, homeowners who purchased flood insurance as a result of the now-revised map will be entitled to a full refund. "I'm pleased that FEMA took this issue seriously when I raised it, and I thank the agency for responding in a timely manner. Taking the Park Mesa Heights area out of the flood plain was the appropriate action," Congresswoman Waters said. "This news should come as a relief to the homeowners who contacted my office for help." Flood insurance reform has long been a priority for Congresswoman Waters. In the last Congress she introduced legislation — which passed the House and Senate — to reform the flood insurance program, legislation which she hopes to move again this year. "Let's be clear," she said, "flood insurance is necessary for millions of Americans. Accurate flood maps are critical for ensuring that those Americans who need flood insurance pay actuarially sound rates. When the maps are wrong, FEMA has a responsibility to take action so that homeowners aren't saddled with an unnecessary expense." Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to 622 homeowners in Park Mesa Heights informing them that FEMA will no longer classify their homes as being in a flood plain. The text of the letter follows: Dear Homeowner, I have good news to share with you regarding the recent designation of the Hyde Park/Park Mesa Heights area as a flood plain. I was recently contacted by Councilman Bernard Parks and several of your neighbors about changes to flood maps issued by the Federal Emergency Management Administration (FEMA). As you know, these maps placed your neighborhood in a flood plain for the very first time. This designation meant that if you are a homeowner with a federally-related mortgage loan (i.e. a loan guaranteed by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac) you were required to purchase flood insurance from FEMA. If you did not purchase insurance on your own within 45 days, your mortgage servicer is required to purchase it for you, often at a significant cost. The Subcommittee I chair in Congress—the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity—has jurisdiction over the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), which is administered by FEMA. Therefore, since learning of this problem, I have been in contact with FEMA, trying to determine why this designation was made and how the homeowners affected by it could be assisted. I have been informed by FEMA that they have received additional data from Los Angeles County regarding the Hyde Park area. Based on that data, FEMA admitted that there were flaws in its maps. As a result, FEMA informed me that it is going to revise its maps and take the Hyde Park/Park Mesa Heights area out of the flood plain. If you purchased flood insurance as a result of the new maps, you will be entitled to a full refund. I am very pleased that FEMA recognized its errors and took quick action to address this situation, which has caused a hardship for many of you. I know that many of you will have questions about this revision so I would like to invite you and your neighbors to a town hall meeting with FEMA where you can learn first hand about the revision, what it means for you, and other pertinent information. Details about this town hall will be forthcoming. I hope that you are able to join me for this meeting. I also hope that this news is as pleasing to you as it is to me. ###
01.14.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today applauded the awarding of $160 million in Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) grants to help Los Angeles fight foreclosures, home abandonment and blight and restore neighborhoods. Congresswoman Waters, who serves as Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, authored the legislation that created NSP, and has led efforts in the U.S. Congress to combat foreclosures and neighborhood decline. After reviewing competitive grant applications, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced that the City of Los Angeles will receive $100 million in Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) funds. Los Angeles Neighborhood Housing Services, a non-profit lender and community developer working in L.A. communities, was awarded an additional $60 million. Funding for the program came from the economic stimulus package – the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009. "As a representative for South Los Angeles and as Chairwoman of the Housing Subcommittee I have long worked to prevent foreclosures, keep people in their homes, and make neighborhoods safe for families and businesses," said Congresswoman Waters. "Los Angeles received the largest grant award of any city in the United States and the second largest grant overall, clearly a testament not only to my work and the work of other advocates and officials, but also to the scale of the foreclosure crisis in L.A." In the Los Angeles area, 1 in every 222 housing units received a foreclosure filing in December of 2009 and 21,369 homes have been foreclosed upon. Home prices in Los Angeles are down about 30 percent from their peak in a large number of neighborhoods. Congresswoman Waters introduced the Neighborhood Stabilization Act nearly two years ago. The Congresswoman staunchly advocated for the legislation, and was able to authorize the program and secure $4 billion in NSP funds under the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008. The Congresswoman fought for an additional $2 billion for the program to be included in the stimulus package that Congress and President Obama put together and passed in February 2009. Most recently, the Congresswoman led a group of Congressional Black Caucus lawmakers in securing an additional $1 billion in NSP funds under the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009, which passed the House of Representatives in December 2009. Nationwide, about 3 million foreclosure notices were sent out in 2009, according to research from the firm RealtyTrac. Additionally, according to First American CoreLogic, about 1 in 4 homeowners, or about 10.7 million households, were "underwater" in the third quarter of 2009, owing more on their mortgages than what their homes were worth. Over the next five years, the Center for Responsible Lending predicts these negative trends will result in 13 million new foreclosures. "Foreclosures are a tragedy not only for the families facing the loss of a house, but also for entire neighborhoods. Foreclosed and abandoned housing encourages vandalism and crime and pushes down neighboring property values. This funding represents a crucial opportunity to stop this cycle," said Congresswoman Waters. The $160 million announcement for Los Angeles is part of HUD's $2 billion release of NSP funds to many cities and organizations throughout the country. "HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan is to be commended for his strong and consistent support of our nation's homeowners and urban communities. I look forward to working with him as we continue to guide our nation out of this housing and economic crisis." ###
01.13.2010	Please see the attached fact sheet for additional information about the program. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today joined U.S. Commerce Secretary Gary Locke, Senator Barbara Boxer, and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa at a South Los Angeles WorkSource Center to announce that that the WorkSource Center will receive federal funding as part of an effort to expand public access to broadband technology. Los Angeles will receive $7.5 million to upgrade and add computers to sites including libraries, workforce centers, and youth and senior centers throughout the city, especially in low-income and non-English speaking communities. The South Los Angeles WorkSource Center – Community Centers, Inc. is one of the 188 public computer centers that will receive funding. Congresswoman Waters said, "The South Los Angeles WorkSource Center - Community Centers Inc. is a valuable resource to our community, providing important employment and hiring services to workers, job seekers, small business owners and other employers. This center will be able to serve our community even better by expanding access to broadband technology." In February 2009, Congress worked with President Obama to put together and pass an economic stimulus package – the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act – as a direct response to the economic crisis. The Recovery Act aims to create new jobs as well as save existing ones, stimulate economic activity and invest in long-term economic growth. Congresswoman Waters noted, "Many people think of the economic stimulus plan as focused on infrastructure and construction jobs, and these are a big part of it. However, the stimulus also has helped save and create jobs for teachers, police officers and other emergency workers. In addition, Congress made an investment in technology, to promote innovation and keep America competitive into the future." The Recovery Act included $7.2 billion to expand broadband services, which will also create jobs and boost economic growth. The broadband investments will be used for broadband infrastructure link unserved and underserved areas of the country, especially urban and rural areas, to the Internet backbone. "Broadband will help create jobs, prepare workers for higher-skilled, higher paying jobs, help connect small businesses with new suppliers and customers, and generate new economic activity in our community," Congresswoman Waters said. Another type of broadband investment is for public computer centers; this is the category of the grant for the city of Los Angeles being announced today. Congresswoman Waters said, "This grant represents the beginning of our commitment to use Recovery Act funds to broaden access to technology and close the digital divide. Many residents have not been able to afford broadband and thus do not have access to it, but the South Los Angeles WorkSource Center – Community Centers Inc. and other public computer centers receiving funding will now make broadband available for free to our community." The Recovery Act also included an amendment offered by Congresswoman Waters to allow job training funds to be used to install broadband technology so more American homes and businesses would have high-speed access to the Internet and so workers could be trained for jobs related to this powerful technology. ### Fact Sheet attached
01.12.2010	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement upon learning of the major earthquake in Haiti late this afternoon: "I am absolutely devastated to learn of the earthquake that struck Haiti late this afternoon. I fear that an earthquake of this magnitude, with its subsequent aftershocks, has dealt a serious blow to the livelihoods and lives of many Haitians and to the important economic, political and social developments that are underway in the country. Haiti is already the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. I have traveled to Haiti many times, and I have seen the poverty and desperation of the Haitian people with my own eyes. There is widespread unemployment and underemployment, and more than two-thirds of Haitian workers do not have formal jobs. There is a high risk of infectious diseases, including diarrhea, hepatitis, typhoid fever, dengue fever and malaria. The infant mortality rate is nearly 6 percent, and almost half of the adult population cannot read and write. Many people have worked hard over the years to assist the people of Haiti. I have worked with officials in the U.S. Government and international organizations to bring economic development to Haiti. Meanwhile, dedicated people working with charities and non-governmental organizations are on the ground in Haiti trying to end poverty and help the Haitian people build a brighter future for themselves and their children. I have also worked very hard over several years to bring debt cancellation to Haiti, which owed over one billion dollars in debts to the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and other multilateral financial institutions. Last June, the World Bank announced that all of these debts would be completely canceled. Yet for the people of Haiti, every step forward seems to be followed by three steps backward. In August and September of 2008, Haiti was struck by four hurricanes and tropical storms in rapid succession: Fay, Gustav, Hanna, and Ike. The loss of life and the destruction of infrastructure as a result of these storms were devastating. The storms destroyed more than 22,000 houses and damaged an additional 84,000 houses. Almost all of the agricultural land in the country was flooded, causing more than $200 million in damage to the agricultural sector alone and exacerbating hunger throughout the country. The storms also damaged or destroyed roads, bridges and other essential infrastructure. I had hoped that this year would be a year of recovery for Haiti. Yet this earthquake could prove to be even more damaging than the storms of 2008. We do not yet know the full extent of the damage, but certainly many Haitians have lost their lives or their loved ones, and many survivors will have lost their homes or livelihoods. As much as one can be at this time, I am encouraged by statements of support and solidarity from President Obama, Secretary of State Clinton, and the international community. I urge the U.S. Government, the international community, nonprofit organizations and even individual people to take all appropriate actions to respond to this earthquake and help the Haitian people recover from this terrible tragedy. My heart is with the people of Haiti tonight, and I commit myself to doing everything I can to help them through this terrible disaster." ###Visit Congresswoman Waters' Page on Haiti For American citizens trying to contact and/or find out information about family, friends and other loved ones in Haiti, please use the State Department hotline that has been set up at (888) 407-4747. For Haitian citizens in the U.S. looking for the same information, please call the Haitian Embassy in Washington, DC at (202) 332-4090 or the Haitian Consulate in Miami at (305) 859-2003. The White House and the United States Agency for International Development are asking for donations to the American Red Cross. I encourage all those who are able to contribute to do so - together we can all make a difference and help the Haitian people during this critical time of need. The secured donor page can be accessed by clicking here. The State Department is also encouraging donations. You can simply text "HAITI" to "90999" and a donation of $10 will be given automatically to the Red Cross & Mercy Corps to help with relief efforts, charged to your cell phone bill.Additionally, persons who wish to provide assistance or expertise in Haiti are asked to contact the Center for International Disaster Information. The Center, operated under a grant from the USAID Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance, has established a dedicated page to coordinate Haiti support at: https://www.cidi.org/incident/haiti-10a/.
12.28.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement today on the passing of political and civil rights leader Percy Sutton: "I am saddened to learn of the death of my old friend Percy Sutton. Percy emerged as one of the great civil rights lawyers and leaders of the United States, with courage and legal talent that served him well as he represented some of the highly visible community and civil rights leaders in New York and throughout the country. And he was well prepared to do so, volunteering with the N.A.A.C.P as a young man, serving our country with distinction as a Tuskegee Airman in World War II and in the Air Force during the Korean War, and attending Columbia Law School and graduating from Brooklyn Law School. It is well known that he represented Malcolm X, but more than that, he became a great friend to his wife Betty and their children following Malcolm's tragic and untimely death. Percy loved Harlem, and he invested tremendous time and energy in its economic development, most notably his work to revitalize and save the iconic Apollo Theatre. He was instrumental in helping to elect David Dinkins the first African American Mayor of New York City, and not only helped to shape Dinkins' career but the careers of other leaders such as former New York Secretary of State Basil Paterson, Congressman Charlie Rangel and New York Governor David Paterson. Percy was a committed public servant himself, serving in the New York State Assembly and as Manhattan Borough President for over a decade. Percy was also an advisor to Rev. Jesse Jackson during his 1984 and 1988 presidential campaigns. From my role on both of those campaigns I can speak firsthand to the impact he had on Rev. Jackson and the tone of those groundbreaking races. Percy Sutton will not only be remembered for his legal talent, political acumen, and community development leadership but also for cofounding the Inner City Broadcasting Corporation, which afforded the African American community the kind of communications network that truly focused on news and interests of concern to us. His boldness in establishing New York's first African American-owned radio station is especially salient during this time of shrinking and disappearing minority, small, local and other media outlets throughout the country. Many of us who witnessed his dedication to, commitment to, and love for his people and his community will forever be inspired by all that he accomplished, and we are dedicated to continuing his legacy. My thoughts and prayers are with his wife Leatrice, his children and grandchildren, his family and friends, and the countless people in Harlem and the United States who knew and who were influenced by Percy Sutton." ###
12.28.2009	Before the House of Representatives adjourned for the holidays on December 16th, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced the Minority Diabetes Initiative Act (H.R. 4404). This bill will establish an initiative to provide grants to physicians and community based organizations for diabetes prevention, care, and treatment programs in minority communities. The bill has bipartisan support. "Diabetes is the seventh leading cause of death in the United States, and it is having an especially severe impact on minorities," said Congresswoman Waters. The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act would provide grants for a variety of diabetes-related health services, including public education on diabetes prevention and control, routine health care for diabetic patients, eye care, foot care, and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes. "Diabetes can lead to serious and sometimes deadly complications, including high blood pressure, heart disease, stroke, blindness, kidney disease, nerve damage, and lower-limb amputations. Minorities with diabetes often lack access to quality health care and are more likely to suffer from complications," said Congresswoman Waters. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimated that among persons over the age of twenty, 7.5 percent of Asian Americans, 10.4 percent of Hispanic Americans, 11.8 percent of African Americans, and about 16.5 percent of American Indians/Alaska Natives have been diagnosed with diabetes. The CDC calculated that in 2006, compared to whites, Hispanics were 1.5 times as likely to die from diabetes; American Indians were almost twice as likely to die from diabetes; and African Americans were more than twice as likely to die from the disease. "The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act would improve the ability of minorities affected by diabetes to live healthy and productive lives," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
12.28.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced the Jubilee Act (H.R. 4405) before the House of Representatives adjourned for the holidays on December 16th. The Jubilee Act expands debt cancellation for impoverished countries, provided that they commit to use the savings to reduce poverty. Joining the Congresswoman as original cosponsors of the Jubilee Act are Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA) and Ranking Member Spencer Bachus (R-AL) as well as other prominent Members of Congress with an interest in international development and poverty alleviation. "The Jubilee Act will free up resources for poverty reduction in some of the poorest countries in the world. I am proud to introduce this bill to help people out of poverty," said Congresswoman Waters. The House passed the Jubilee Act (H.R. 2634) by an overwhelming vote of 285 to 132 last year during the 110th Congress; however, the Senate failed to complete action on the bill. "Debt cancellation allows poor countries to use their own money to address the needs of their people. It is simple, effective, and the right thing to do," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader on issues of poor country debt relief for the past decade. In 1999, she worked with her colleagues and the Clinton Administration to authorize the debt relief program known as the "HIPC Initiative." The following year, she offered an amendment on the House Floor to the Fiscal Year 2001 Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, which increased funding for debt relief from $69 million to $225 million. The amendment passed the House, thereby ensuring full funding for the program. "Debt cancellation saved Zambia more than $23 million in 2006, which Zambia used to increase spending on agricultural projects and eliminate fees for healthcare in rural areas. Debt cancellation saved Cameroon more than $29 million the same year, which was used for infrastructure, social sector and governance reforms. The Jubilee Act will allow more impoverished countries to benefit from the cancellation of their debts," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
12.22.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent the following letter to Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) Director Robert Mueller last week, requesting an investigation into the disappearance of Mitrice Richardson. Ms. Richardson is a constituent of Congresswoman Waters who has been missing since September. The text of the letter is below: December 16, 2009 The Honorable Robert S. Mueller Director Federal Bureau of Investigation 935 Pennsylvania Avenue Washington, DC 20535 Dear Director Mueller: As the Congresswoman for California's 35th District, I am extremely concerned about the wellbeing of Mitrice Richardson, a constituent who disappeared on September 17, 2009 following her arrest by the LA County Sheriff's Department. Serving on the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives, which is responsible for oversight of the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), I am also concerned about the failure of the FBI Los Angeles Regional Office to investigate the circumstances surrounding Mitrice's disappearance. Based on reports I have read, there are questions as to whether the Malibu/Lost Hills Sheriff's Station acted properly in releasing this young woman during the predawn hours without money or transportation, all while she was suffering from what the Los Angeles Police Department's doctors have concluded to be bipolar disorder. Due to delays in the local authorities' investigation, the family has launched an aggressive campaign to raise money and resources to personally investigate Mitrice's disappearance. Constituents from across my district are calling for a federal investigation and have inundated my Los Angeles office with phone calls, letters, and faxes requesting my support in their efforts to find Mitrice. Michael Richardson, Mitrice's father, has sold off some of his personal assets in order to raise money towards his daughter's recovery. It is understandable that a loving parent would take extreme steps to find his daughter. However, I believe that the FBI, with its trained and experienced personnel and abundance of resources, is better equipped than a private individual for such an investigation. In addition, the FBI has the responsibility to pursue cases implicating federal criminal or civil rights statutes. I believe the circumstances and facts of this case warrant the bureau's involvement. Therefore, it is with great urgency that I respectfully request that the FBI open an investigation into Mitrice's disappearance and the circumstances surrounding her arrest, detention, and release from the custody of the Malibu/Lost Hills Sheriff Station. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
12.16.2009	To create jobs in California, where unemployment is 12.5 percent – one of the highest rates in the nation – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted with her Democratic colleagues today to pass a jobs creation bill. The Jobs on Main Street Act will create or save jobs in California and throughout the United States by making targeted investments in critical industries that will put Americans to work. The legislation provides $75 billion for highways and transit, school renovation, hiring teachers, police, and firefighters, small business, job training and affordable housing. It also includes emergency funding for unemployment benefits. "This was one of the easiest votes I've ever had to cast," said Congresswoman Waters. "For over a year now we've been focused on bailouts for Wall Street, ensuring the big boys were taken care of because they were ‘too big to fail'. Today's vote demonstrates that this Congress' priority moving forward is Main Street, because putting Americans back to work is how we will really put this recession behind us." The Act is paid for with unused funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), which was used to stabilize the financial industry following its near-collapse in September 2008. To help those Americans hit hardest by the recession, the bill also extends emergency unemployment benefits, helps with health benefits for those out of work through COBRA, protects health care coverage for millions through Medicaid, and cuts taxes for the families of 16 million children by making the Child Tax Credit available to all low-income working families with children in 2010. "My constituents, like many Californians and people across the United States, know about underemployment and unemployment," said Congresswoman Waters. "Though the national rate of unemployment stands at 10 percent, for Latinos and African Americans that number is 12.7 percent and 15.6 percent, respectively. And among youth in the African American community some put the number as high as 35 or 40 percent. This bill will provide the funds necessary to not only help people during this time of mass-unemployment, but also help create and save jobs in critical industries that will provide people with meaningful work." To further assist people struggling during this economic downturn, Congresswoman Waters recently led a group of Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) lawmakers on the Financial Services Committee in securing $4 billion within the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act for unemployed homeowners and devastated communities dealing with the foreclosure crisis. ###
12.11.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today applauded the passage of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2009 (H.R. 4173), which included key provisions she authored related to homeowner assistance and consumer protection. Congresswoman Waters led a group of Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) lawmakers on the Financial Services Committee in securing $4 billion within the Wall Street reform package for homeowners and communities dealing with the foreclosure crisis. The CBC Financial Services Committee members engaged in discussions with leaders of Congress as well as officials from the Obama Administration to focus attention on the economic challenges many African-American communities are facing and secure funding for homeowner assistance programs. "This Wall Street reform bill will allow us to stop risky banks and other institutions before they create systemic problems for our whole economy and will provide for a historic Consumer Financial Protection Agency to advocate for the needs of homeowners, consumers and borrowers. And through our advocacy, the CBC members on the Financial Services Committee made it clear that foreclosures and unemployment also pose systemic risks to American families, and needed to be addressed in this bill," said Congresswoman Waters. Under the CBC proposal included in the bill, a total of $3 billion would be available so homeowners with reduced income as a result of unemployment, underemployment or medical conditions can receive low-interest loans from the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to help them stay in their homes. To qualify, individuals must be at least 3 months behind on their mortgage payments, have received a foreclosure notice, and must have a reasonable prospect of being able to resume making full mortgage payments. Homeowners will be eligible to receive low-interest loans for up to 24 months, up to a total of $50,000, to make their mortgage payments. An additional $1 billion will be directed to the Neighborhood Stabilization Program to provide grants to state and local governments to purchase foreclosed properties, fix them up and make them available for rent or purchase by low- and middle-income families. Created last year through legislation authored by Congresswoman Waters, the Neighborhood Stabilization Program has been a key tool for local governments combating the foreclosure crisis. Congresswoman Waters also secured key provisions related to diversity and consumer protection within H.R. 4173 during consideration of the bill within the Financial Services Committee. The Committee adopted an amendment from Congresswoman Waters and the other CBC members establishing Offices of Minority and Women Inclusion at all major federal financial agencies, including the Department of the Treasury, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Federal Housing Finance Agency, the Securities and Exchange Commission and each of the Federal Reserve Banks, along with other agencies. "Federal financial services agencies have historically lagged in providing contracting and employment opportunities to qualified minority professionals. This provision represents an unprecedented and long overdue step towards ensuring diversity and inclusion with respect to employment and business opportunities with the Federal government," said Congresswoman Waters. Another amendment authored by Congresswoman Waters will restructure the Oversight Board of a new Consumer Financial Protection Agency to reflect consumers' voices. The Congresswoman's amendment expanded the Board to include not only officials from federal government agencies, but also experts and advocates in the areas of consumer protection, fair lending and civil rights, representatives of depository institutions that operate in underserved communities, and advocates from communities most affected by subprime and predatory loans. An additional amendment authored by Congresswoman Waters and adopted within the Financial Services Committee requires the Financial Services Oversight Council, an advisory panel made up of eleven state and Federal financial regulators which would identify systemic economic threats, to consider the economic impact of the default of a failing institution on minority and low-income communities. The provision would also require the appropriate federal regulatory agency to take steps to avoid or mitigate the potential adverse effects on such communities before winding down the systemically risky financial firm. The Committee also passed an amendment offered by the Congresswoman to crack down on foreclosure rescue scams that prey on vulnerable homeowners by requiring that attorneys participating in foreclosure prevention services be subject to regulation by the CFPA. H.R. 4173 also includes a provision authored by Congresswoman Waters to obligate the new Federal Insurance Office to consider the extent to which minorities, low- and moderate-income persons and underserved communities have access to affordable insurance products. ###
12.03.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) is among the leading health advocates who believe health care reform can both save lives and save money by making HIV tests a routine part of Americans' medical examinations that is covered by their health insurance. Congresswoman Waters led a bipartisan group of 21 Representatives who wrote to Chairman Henry Waxman and Ranking Member Joe Barton, leaders of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, today to request that the major health care reform bill – the America's Affordable Health Choices Act of 2009 (H.R. 3200) – include provisions requiring health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. The Energy and Commerce Committee will complete its consideration of this legislation next week. Congresswoman Waters has encouraged all Americans to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS. Leading by example, she was tested at a recent event held in advance of National HIV Testing Day (June 27th). To increase the likelihood that more people will be tested for HIV, Congresswoman Waters earlier this year introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137) which would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. She now seeks to accomplish this objective through H.R. 3200, the landmark health care reform bill that President Obama and Congressional leaders have identified as legislation that must be passed this year. Standard health insurance plans generally cover HIV screening only when there are known risk factors present for HIV or when there are clinical indications of infection, such as symptoms of AIDS. Furthermore, current law allows health insurance plans to deny coverage for routine HIV tests on the grounds that the patient has no known risk factors and does not exhibit signs or symptoms of AIDS. However, Congresswoman Waters notes that many of those who are infected with HIV do not fall into high risk categories. Therefore, routine testing for HIV for all people is important. ###
12.03.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters requested that the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA) of 2010, which is currently being considered by the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, include funding for the following water projects that would benefit her congressional district: City of Gardena: $10 million for drainage and sewer improvements, including replacement and construction of storm drains and drainage pipes throughout the City of Gardena. City of Hawthorne: $2 million for the design and construction of storm drain pipes and infiltration chambers along Hawthorne Blvd. at locations that are subject to frequent flooding. City of Lawndale: $ 700,000 for storm drain improvements along 153rd Street. $1,000,000 for storm drain improvements along Firmona Avenue. $ 220,000 for storm drain improvements along Rixford Avenue. $ 220,000 for storm drain improvements along Saylor Avenue. Water Replenishment District (WRD) of Southern California: $20 million for the Groundwater Reliability Improvement Program, which would assure a reliable supply of locally sustainable water for basin replenishment and reduce demand for imported water from Northern California and the Colorado River. West Basin Municipal Water District: $25 million for the Harbor/South Bay Water Recycling Project, which consists of a treatment facility and distribution system that will annually develop up to 48,000 acre-feet of recycled water for municipal, industrial, and environmental purposes in the Los Angeles area. ###
12.02.2009	The following is a statement released by the Congressional Black Caucus Members of the House Financial Services Committee, who include Rep. Maxine Waters, CA, Rep. Melvin L. Watt, NC, Rep. Gregory W. Meeks, NY, Rep. William Lacy Clay, MO, Rep. David Scott, GA, Rep. Al Green, TX, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, MO, Rep. Gwen Moore, WI, Rep. Keith Ellison, MN, and Rep. Andre Carson, IN: "As African American Members of Congress, we are keenly aware of the extreme economic crisis in our communities, and we are responsible for confronting the issues threatening the survival of the people and institutions we represent. Over the last several weeks, we have re-engaged in a constructive dialogue on the issues that we have been fighting for throughout our careers. Foreclosures, unemployment, access to credit for small business, and parity in the federal hiring and contracting process are but a few of the issues that we have continued our work on. Each of us serves on the Financial Services Committee and we have not been forceful enough in our efforts to protect the most vulnerable of our population. We cannot address system risk on a broad scale without taking steps to prevent the crumbling of our community's infrastructure. Since last September, we have continuously voted for bailouts and reform for the very institutions that created this devastation, without properly protecting the African American community, or small business. That stops today. While we appreciate the need for the expansion of regulatory authority, we can no longer afford for our public policy to be defined by the worldview of Wall Street. Policy for the least of these must be integrated into everything that we do. We must protect and defend our individual constituents, as well as the small businesses and institutions that serve them. Let me take a moment to paint the picture we are faced with in our communities when we return home to our districts. Although unemployment is at record levels nationwide, the impact on the African American community is especially devastating with the latest figures at 17.4%. The numbers are even higher for our youth, topping 35% in many communities. In addition, food stamp assistance, a key economic indicator is at 28% for African Americans as compared to 8% of Whites. These are among the reasons why we must focus on job creation, economic development and the expansion of small and minority businesses. In the coming days, the Congressional Black Caucus will put forward a proposal that we hope will be included in the coming jobs package. Our communities were targeted by predatory lenders. 55% of loans made in 2005 to African Americans were subprime as compared to 17% for whites. In addition, 1 in 10 African American homeowners are expected to go into foreclosure, compared to 1 in 25 Whites. African Americans and Latinos could lose up to 164 billion dollars in wealth, over half of the nation's overall foreclosure losses. The solutions that have been put in place to this point are not working, so we must be stronger and more direct. Working with the administration, we must enhance current foreclosure programs to include principal write down, mandatory loss mitigation and loans for unemployed homeowners. In addition to the individual struggles in the community, our institutions are facing greater economic strain due to the recession and a continued legacy of lack of access to credit. In 2001 there were 600 African American owned automobile dealers; today there are less than 300. African American auto dealers are facing a credit squeeze as the very manufacturers that we have bailed out have failed to use their resources to assist in floor plan financing, and other mechanisms to help in the survival of these important institutions. The TALF lending facility must be made more flexible in order to accommodate the needs of auto-dealers. Minority-owned banks have not been able to benefit in the same way from the assistance provided to some of the larger institutions that have been deemed "too big to fail". Some of the onerous and preventative aspects of the federal programs lock out minority-owned banks. If the federal government is going to be in the business of assisting financial institutions in a time of crisis, more should be done to insure that small, and community banks, who lend to the African American community, have the opportunity to participate. Programs such as the one announced a few weeks ago by the President to increase access to credit must be carefully tailored to incentivize participation and increase access to capital. Despite significant numbers of highly skilled, qualified and experienced minority- and women-owned legal, accounting, asset management and financial services firms, barriers to entry remain high or prohibitive for significant contracting and asset purchase opportunities within the Federal government and its agencies. That is why all ten Members of the committee co-authored a provision in the Financial Services Regulatory reform package that would establish the Office of Minority and Women Inclusion in each of the financial services-focused agencies. We must ensure parity and access in government contracting. Our communication infrastructure is failing. There has been a sharp reduction in the number of African American-owned newspapers by 40% over the last decade. Like other businesses, access to capital has been a challenge for this industry as well. With declining ad revenues, newspapers everywhere are struggling to survive. Along with the African-American broadcasters, who have also suffered declines by up to 40%, they are the primary means of communication for our community. As such, the federal government must make a focused effort to increase its advertising in the African American community on all issues relating to our work. The GAO reported that from 2001 through 2005, the Federal government devoted only 5 percent of its $4.3 billion ad-related expenditures to small or minority businesses – which included broadcasters, advertising agencies, graphic design houses, etc. Let us be clear, we understand that many of these issues are not issues that have been created solely in the last 9 months. But we are also clear that we have the resources, the political will and the duty to come up with solutions that serve all Americans. There are those who choose not to speak about African Americans or the working class. We can no longer be in denial that certain sectors of our population, including the African American community, are feeling the recession to a greater extent. Today, we are here to reaffirm our commitment to be forceful advocates for the voiceless, and insist that all of the resources of the government, whether they be through financial assistance programs or federal contracting, exhibit a basic fairness and equality that historically has not existed. And we commit to using all of our resources as a collective body to be sure that this is done." ###
12.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement tonight after President Obama's speech on Afghanistan: "I believe President Obama has appropriately devoted considerable time and given much thought to formulating a strategy for moving forward in Afghanistan and Pakistan. President Bush took his focus off of Afghanistan early on and allowed U.S. policy there to drift for many years. However, I am opposed to sending 30,000 additional U.S. troops to Afghanistan, and I am not convinced that this so-called new strategy fully addresses the concerns that many Americans have about extending our military operations there. "President Obama at least spoke of an exit strategy – something I have called for – announcing his hope that in July 2011 the U.S. would be able to start transferring power to Afghan security forces and begin to bring U.S. troops home, but he did not provide sufficient details on how we would achieve our goals and be able to withdraw from Afghanistan. "Likewise, the President's strategy incorporates civilian assistance programs and partnerships that my colleagues in the Congressional Progress Caucus favor, but we do not yet know if these programs will be adequately supported because the disproportionate emphasis on military efforts will continue. "I cannot support a continued policy of waste and open-ended spending in Afghanistan, especially given the severe economic challenges we must confront within our own country. For eight years, the United States has invested $220 billion dollars in Afghanistan. Despite the amount of money and resources expended, the Taliban is stronger than ever, the Afghan government is corrupt, and the country has failed to achieve functioning democratic institutions and economic development. President Obama's strategy will cost the United States $30 billion more per year to implement. Moreover, I am not entirely convinced that our senior military officials will do a better job of tracking the spending and ensuring that our investment in Afghanistan does not lead to further waste, mismanagement, and careless outsourcing to private contractors whose connections we do not fully understand. If this is the "new" strategy, then the billions of dollars the Administration plans to spend in Afghanistan would be better spent to help create jobs in the United States, respond more effectively to the ongoing foreclosure crisis and meet our other domestic needs." ###
12.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) released the following statement today in recognition of World AIDS Day: "Each year on December 1st, World AIDS Day, we remember those who have succumbed to AIDS and recommit ourselves to caring for individuals living with HIV/AIDS. And each year, we are all a bit more encouraged by medical and societal advances that will someday lead to a cure. "I have written legislation and supported policies that fight HIV/AIDS on many fronts, including encouraging voluntary nationwide testing; protecting clinicians, nurses, racial and ethnic minorities and other vulnerable populations; and maintaining and expanding treatment services for low-income Americans living with HIV/AIDS. I believe that this disease requires our full attention and ample resources for education, prevention and treatment. "As we all know, the scourge of HIV/AIDS has spread to every corner of the globe. It knows no boundaries, affecting people regardless of race, nationality, ethnicity, gender, sexual preference, age or socio-economic status. "That is why I again reiterate my call for a comprehensive national strategy to respond to the ongoing HIV/AIDS epidemic. Our efforts must always reflect our concern about the international implications of this disease, even as we confront it at the local level. Right here in Washington, DC the infection rate is the highest in the country, and in my home state of California, more than 148,000 people have been diagnosed with AIDS. As we continue to work on legislation to bring much-needed reform to our nation's health care system, we must address HIV/AIDS directly by promoting routine HIV testing and prevention and by making treatment for the infected more accessible and more affordable. "I am encouraged that the United States will host the XIX International AIDS Conference in 2012. Convening the world's researchers, doctors, patients, advocates, academics, and government leaders here in our own country to address this global pandemic will help demonstrate how the United States can and will continue to lead the way toward prevention, treatment, and a cure. "Let us all take this World AIDS Day to remember the victims of this disease and honor their legacy by working harder to take care of people afflicted with HIV/AIDS and by rededicating ourselves to finding a cure." More information on Congresswoman Waters' work related to HIV/AIDS is available at /Issues/Issue/?IssueID=5165 ###
11.19.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today introduced the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act (H.R. 4123), a bill to improve treatment services for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. The bill is supported by the Alzheimer's Foundation of America (AFA) and the Alzheimer's Association, and it has more than fifty original cosponsors, including Edward J. Markey (D-MA) and Christopher H. Smith (R-NJ), Co-Chairs of the Task Force on Alzheimer's Disease. "Alzheimer's disease places tremendous burdens on families," said Congresswoman Waters. "The Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act will expand access to training and support services for caregivers and family members. As a result, it will improve the ability of caregivers to provide effective, compassionate care and allow more people with Alzheimer's disease to remain in their homes with people who love them." Alzheimer's disease currently affects an estimated 5 million Americans, and that number will multiply in the coming decades as our population ages. Most Alzheimer's patients live at home under the care of family and friends. Caregivers include spouses, children, and even grandchildren of Alzheimer's patients. Caregivers face a variety of challenges, from helping loved ones with bathing and dressing to managing their legal and financial affairs. Caregiving is extremely stressful; more than 40 percent of caregivers rate the emotional stress as high or very high, and about one-third of caregivers have symptoms of depression. "This legislation recognizes that families and other caregivers taking care of loved ones with Alzheimer's must have the dementia care training they need to manage needed care," said Robert Egge, Vice President for Public Policy and Advocacy at the Alzheimer's Association. "The bill also provides services tailored to the unique needs of each individual with dementia, and expands community based services, especially in underserved communities, to assist families in need." "The Alzheimer's Foundation of America is pleased to endorse the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act," said Eric J. Hall, President and Chief Executive Officer of AFA. "This legislation would provide much-needed grants to public and non-profit organizations to improve treatment for individuals with dementia, and expand training and support services for family caregivers. We thank Congresswoman Maxine Waters for her leadership in supporting local services for those with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias and improving quality of life in general for families affected by this disease." ###
11.17.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced H. Res. 910 today, National Memory Screening Day, to promote awareness of Alzheimer's disease, to support the development of a national health policy on dementia screening and care, and to encourage Americans concerned about memory loss to be screened. The resolution has bipartisan support. "I am promoting awareness of Alzheimer's disease because scientific research has demonstrated that early medical treatment would be beneficial to millions of Americans who suffer from Alzheimer's and early access to counseling and support services is helpful to those who are caregivers," said Congresswoman Waters. "Awareness and early detection of memory loss therefore are essential." November is National Alzheimer's Disease Awareness Month, and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America established an annual National Memory Screening Day at which qualified health care professionals administer free, confidential, face-to-face memory screenings at thousands of sites throughout the United States. Memory screening is not used to diagnose Alzheimer's or any other illness but rather is used as an indicator to determine if additional examination is recommended. "A memory screening is a safe and cost-effective way to help at-risk individuals determine whether they would benefit from further testing and follow-up care. As with so many illnesses, individuals benefit from being screened so they can receive the appropriate care and reduce symptoms later on. In addition, screening allays the fears of people who have their memory checked and receive normal scores," said Congresswoman Waters. The resolution introduced by Congresswoman Waters is a House companion to S. Res. 185, which was introduced in the Senate earlier this year by Senator Mark Warner (D-VA). ###
11.13.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) expressed her appreciation for the service and sacrifice of our nation's veterans, service members and military families as she participated in several Veterans Day events. On Wednesday she spoke at an event hosted by the Hawthorne Veterans of Foreign Wars Post 2075 with participation from the American Legion. In her remarks, she thanked veterans for their contributions while in uniform and noted that many of the two million veterans currently living in California continue to make a difference in our neighborhoods and communities. "Today we honor our veterans – our heroes," Congresswoman Waters said. "Today we remember the millions of brave men and women who answered the call to serve in our nation's military throughout history, and we thank them all." She also paid tribute to Eduviges "Duvi" Preciado Wolf, an Army sergeant from Hawthorne killed in Afghanistan and expressed her condolences to Duvi's sister Cecilia who was present and recognized by Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters emphasized that our nation must express appreciation for our veterans, not only in words but also in deeds. "We do this by fulfilling our obligations to veterans – and also to service members and military families. We must make sure that they have access to and know about the wide range of programs and services designed to help them. We are obligated to ensure our veterans have timely access to healthcare, including mental health treatment, receive the full disability benefits they deserve and need, are provided opportunities for higher education, receive assistance to transition back into society and civilian jobs, and have housing and available services," she said. The 111th Congress has worked in a bipartisan manner to help veterans and to support service members and military families. With the help and advocacy of organizations like the VFW and the American Legion, this Congress has passed landmark legislation and unprecedented funding to benefit our military and their families. We have passed the largest increase in funding for veterans health care in the 77 year history of the Department of Veterans Affairs. The stimulus package and supplemental bills increased 2009 veterans funding by $1.4 billion. In addition, the House successfully passed an appropriations bill that would add $14.5 billion to the budget in 2010 and voted to provide funding for Fiscal Year 2011 to ensure the best care for America's wounded warriors in the future. Earlier on Wednesday, Congresswoman Waters addressed a crowd at the Veterans Day breakfast in Inglewood hosted by U.S. Vets, a non-profit organization which helps veterans with housing and employment assistance. Congresswoman Waters attended the third annual "Honor a Hero, Hire a Vet" Career Expo and Resource Fair in Los Angeles on Tuesday, where she presented U.S. Vets with a certificate in recognition of its efforts to assist homeless and at-risk veterans. The Veterans Affairs Department estimates that approximately 131,000 veterans are homeless on any given night and approximately 260,000 veterans experience homelessness over the course of a year. Veterans comprise as much as one third of the nation's homeless population. "While many federal programs have been aimed at assisting families, the VA has struggled to reach many single homeless veterans, leaving many veterans to seek assistance from local government agencies and service organizations in their communities. U.S. Vets does an outstanding job meeting the needs of veterans and providing assistance," Congresswoman Waters said. She added, "I am convinced that the Obama Administration is committed to addressing these issues. Last week, during the VA Department's summit "Ending Homelessness among Veterans," Secretary Shinseki announced a comprehensive plan to end homelessness among veterans using resources of the federal government, business and the private sector. This plan includes preventive measures like discharge planning for incarcerated Veterans re-entering society, supportive services for low-income Veterans and their families and a national referral center to link Veterans to local service providers. Additionally, the plan calls for expanded efforts for education, jobs, health care and housing. I will be working with my colleagues in Congress to ensure these programs are implemented effectively." # # #
11.12.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) was honored by the South Bay Workforce Investment Consortium for her "outstanding commitment and contribution to the South Bay community". Congresswoman Waters received the prestigious Esther Williams Award from SBWIC, the nonprofit arm of the South Bay Workforce Investment Board (SBWIB) at its annual awards breakfast today. "I appreciate this recognition and will continue to work with the South Bay Workforce Investment Board and the entire South Bay community", said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters spoke highly of the job training and job placement programs that SBWIB provides under the leadership of Executive Director Jan Vogel. She also cited the staff, the board, local elected officials, committed area employers and other supporters and thanked them all for their ongoing efforts to support workforce development programs in the South Bay. Today's event also recognized the outstanding graduates from SBWIB job and vocational training programs, as well as alumni of these programs who are now employed and contributing to economic activity in the South Bay. Congresswoman Waters noted that the economic stimulus package Congress passed earlier this year has helped save and create jobs in the South Bay and provided important funding for SBWIB for employment and training services in fields including clean energy or "green" jobs. Acknowledging high levels of unemployment currently, Congresswoman Waters said, "Certainly right now many families and businesses in California are facing real challenges as we continue to emerge from a severe recession and continue on the path to economic recovery. Too many people, especially young people, are still out of work, and we must all do whatever we can to foster economic development and support job creation. I am confident that the collaboration of government, businesses, community organizations and others responsible for SBWIB's success will continue to sustain essential workforce initiatives in the South Bay." ###
11.09.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) cast the decisive vote in favor of the Affordable Health Care for America Act (H.R. 3962), historic legislation to provide affordable quality health care for all Americans. The legislation required 218 votes to pass the House of Representatives, and Congresswoman Waters was the 218th vote for the bill late Saturday night. (Following her vote one more Democrat and one Republican also voted in favor of the legislation to make the final tally 220-215.) "Ultimately, after thorough consideration of the legislation, I decided to cast the deciding 218th vote to pass H.R. 3962 because of the benefits it provides for my constituents," said Congresswoman Waters, "and because it will extend coverage to 36 million more Americans who currently lack health insurance, either because they were turned down or they can't afford it." However, Congresswoman Waters was disappointed that an amendment passed denying women the opportunity to exercise their full reproductive freedoms. She fears the Stupak amendment will hurt poor women the most, as they will likely be unable to afford supplemental coverage if they need an abortion. There is no guarantee that an insurer will even provide coverage for abortion services at all, let alone at a price that is affordable. A longtime proponent of comprehensive, affordable health care for all Americans, Congresswoman Waters and her allies in the Congressional Progressive Caucus (CPC) insisted that health care reform legislation must include a "public option" – a voluntary, public insurance program similar to Medicare that would be an alternative to profit-driven private insurance companies. Most CPC members prefer a single payer health care system, but when it failed to gain enough support in the House as health care reform legislation was being drafted, they expressed support for a "robust public option", which would reimburse medical providers at the Medicare rate plus 5%. While Congresswoman Waters was pleased that the House passed legislation including a public option, she was disappointed that the reimbursement rates will be negotiated between the government and providers, a plan favored by more conservative Representatives. Congresswoman Waters however expressed support for many provisions of the legislation to make health insurance more affordable, more accessible and fairer. These provisions include significant reforms such as ending discrimination against people with pre-existing conditions like diabetes, heart disease or cancer who currently are unable to get coverage or are dropped after they get sick; reducing costs for consumers by capping out-of-pocket expenses and ending yearly or lifetime caps on what insurance companies will cover; eliminating co-pays for routine checkups and preventive care; and assisting small businesses so they can cover employees. Many important reforms will take effect immediately after the bill is signed into law. Among them are preventing insurance companies from dropping coverage for individuals when they get sick, helping seniors pay for medicine by reducing the prescription drug coverage gap (known as "the donut hole") under Medicare Part D coverage by $500, helping young adults get coverage by extending their ability to stay on their parents' insurance plans up to their 27th birthday, and increasing funding for community health centers so they will be able to serve twice as many patients over the next 5 years. Congresswoman Waters also worked hard to make sure that legal immigrants are treated fairly under this legislation. Congresswoman Waters noted that efforts to provide health insurance coverage to all Americans was proposed in 1912 – almost 100 years ago – by Teddy Roosevelt, and Presidents following him have also supported this objective. Congressman John Dingell of Michigan has introduced the National Health Insurance Act (H.R. 15), which would provide universal health care for all Americans, during each of his terms in Congress going back to 1957. It was previously sponsored by his father when he was a Congressman. "Providing health insurance coverage to all Americans is not a new idea but one that has taken a long time to achieve, largely because of opposition from the powerful insurers. Greedy insurance companies have shown a lack of concern for their customers by increasing premiums, co-pays and deductibles year after year, turning away people with pre-existing conditions and dropping people who have paid premiums for years if they get sick and require costly treatment. By passing H.R. 3962, the House has moved our nation one step closer to quality, affordable health care for all," Congresswoman Waters said. (Please see the information below describing how the Affordable Health Care for America Act will benefit Congresswoman Waters' district.) ### The House Energy and Commerce Committee has projected that H.R. 3962 will have the following impact on the 35th District: --improve employer-based coverage for 281,000 residents; --provide credits to help pay for coverage for up to 157,000 households; --provide coverage for 131,000 uninsured residents; --improve Medicare for 62,000 beneficiaries, including closing the prescription drug donut hole for 5,500 seniors; --allow 16,300 small businesses to obtain affordable health care coverage and provide tax credits to help reduce health insurance costs for up to 15,100 small businesses; --protect up to 1,100 families from bankruptcy due to unaffordable health care costs; --and reduce the cost of uncompensated care for hospitals and health care providers by $27 million.
11.04.2009	The House Financial Services Committee today passed an amendment by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) that would authorize the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to implement rules and procedures granting shareholders the opportunity to nominate at least one director to a corporation's board of directors, a right known as proxy access. Without Congresswoman Waters' amendment – which was co-sponsored by Congressman Gary Peters (D-MI) – the SEC would have most likely faced a lawsuit from corporations and their industry groups who would falsely allege that the SEC lacked authority to grant shareholders this right. "Proxy access is necessary for shareholders to have a meaningful choice in exercising their right to vote for board members, and thus to hold boards accountable," said Congresswoman Waters, a senior member of the Committee. "Board nominees are typically selected by the very management that the board is meant to oversee, creating a board indebted to management, potentially weakening the board's accountability and oversight, and diluting the power of shareholders. This amendment provides shareholders with a meaningful say in the process." Regulation of proxy access and disclosure is a core function of the SEC and is one of the original responsibilities that Congress assigned to the Commission when it was created in 1934. Congresswoman Waters' amendment will not create a new federal right to proxy, but will ensure that the already-written laws on the right to proxy are upheld. "Not surprisingly, there are some who oppose this amendment because it gives shareholders a seat at the table," said Congresswoman Waters. "My amendment enables the SEC to move forward with its pending, time-sensitive and important project on proxy access so I am encouraged that the Financial Services Committee has passed it. A voice for shareholders is one of the many steps that will help prevent us from reaching another economic downturn of this magnitude." Congresswoman Waters expressed her appreciation to Congressman Peters for co-sponsoring the amendment and for his own work on legislation to improve corporate governance, and also acknowledged the important role of CalPERS and CalSTRS in helping draw Congress' attention to the need for the amendment. With $130.3 billion in assets, the California State Teachers Retirement System (CalSTRS) is the largest teachers' retirement fund in the United States. The California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS) is the largest public pension fund in the United States, providing health and retirement benefits for California's police, firefighters, and other public employees. "Today's vote was a vote for America's public pension funds and the firefighters, teachers, police, and other essential government employees who rely on them for their retirement and benefits," Congresswoman Waters said. This amendment to comprehensive financial regulatory reform legislation being considered by the Committee is largely supported by institutional investors seeking to promote the long-term health of their investments. Congresswoman Waters' amendment is supported by: the California State Teachers' Retirement System (CalSTRS); California Public Employees' Retirement System (CalPERS); The National Association of Shareholder and Consumer Attorneys (NASCAT); American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees (AFSCME); Washington State Investment Board; Colorado Public Employees' Retirement Association; State of Wisconsin Investment Board, Oregon Public Employees' Retirement Fund; Ohio Public Employees' Retirement System; Los Angeles Fire and Police Pensions; Los Angeles County Employees' Retirement Association; New York State Common Retirement Fund; Connecticut Retirement Plans and Trust Fund; North Carolina Retirement Systems; Pennsylvania Public School Employees' Retirement System; Pennsylvania State Employees' Retirement System, and the Council of Institutional Investors. ###
10.29.2009	President Barack Obama today praised Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) for her role in shaping and passing the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (S. 896), legislation that will prevent many home foreclosures and strengthen the housing market. Congresswoman Waters was one of a select few House and Senate leaders invited to attend the signing ceremony for the legislation today at the White House. In expressing his thanks to those who have played key roles on this issue, President Obama said that Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank and Congresswoman Waters "have done a great job". Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, introduced a provision included in the bill to prevent the worst subprime lenders who have preyed on prospective homebuyers from participating in Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan programs – which help families refinance into safer mortgages. She was also instrumental in the reauthorization of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, which was included in S. 896. Congresswoman Waters also worked with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) to improve the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) to allow states that have received the minimum NSP funding to shift resources to target areas most at risk of foreclosure. Congresswoman Waters said, "I am pleased that we were able to pass this important legislation to help families save their homes. I will continue to work with the President and my colleagues in Congress to prevent foreclosures and strengthen the housing market." ###
10.28.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) was recognized for her tireless work on behalf of women, children and minorities, receiving the Speaker's Award from the J. Ashburn Jr. Youth Center in Columbus, Ohio on Sunday. Prior to delivering the keynote address to an audience which included the Center's staff and supporters, as well as children it serves, the Congresswoman toured the state-of-the-art center and reviewed some of the activities and programs provided. "Community centers such as the Ashburn Center have their finger on the pulse of the communities that they work in," said Congresswoman Waters. "Combating poor home environments, drug and alcohol problems, truancy and dropouts and teen pregnancy and unemployment are major challenges, and through the totality of its work the Center is a resource and a place of support for the youth of the Hilltop Community of Columbus." Congresswoman Waters shared memories of her youth and cited the importance of having a safe, nurturing, fun place serving children. "Growing up in St. Louis my friends, family and I relied heavily on our local community center as a place of learning, recreation, and social cohesion," she said. "I am so pleased I was able to come to the Ashburn Center to see how a community center effectively serves area children with limited resources, and I am confident that this Center is poised to continue to serve Hilltop for years to come." The Center supports programming for 500 children a week between the ages of 5 and 13. Most children are African-American or Hispanic, come from a single parent household and are considered low-income. Additionally, staff members run pre-school services and also volunteer their time to work with at-risk high school-age students. Activities for children include learning Native American, African-American, and Hispanic-American history, working on computers in the labs, using the library, playing chess, and participating in general and organized recreational activities. The J. Ashburn Jr. Youth Center was built in 1962 and according to its website has "consistently provided structured programs and supportive activities that meet the physical, emotional and spiritual needs of youth." In the late 1990s the Center embarked on a $3 million upgrade to its facilities, an impressive feat given its annual operating budget of less than $250,000, which mostly comes from its status as a United Way Agency and through private donations. Notable individuals who grew up at the Center include CNN contributor Joe Johns, Milwaukee Bucks basketball player Mike Redd and Paul Taylor, a successful businessman and close friend of Congresswoman Waters. "I am encouraged by the dedicated staff, eager children, and modern facilities that I've seen today. This community center is providing the children with a foundation from which to build their academic, professional and personal lives," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
10.28.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) received the Congressional Leadership Award from The Ludacris Foundation (TLF), a non-profit organization founded by entertainer Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, at a celebrity-packed event in Washington over the weekend. Although this was the TLF's 6th Annual Benefit Dinner, Congresswoman Waters is the first person to receive the foundation's Congressional Leadership Award. The foundation recognized Congresswoman Waters, music producer Quincy Jones, BET Networks Chairman/CEO Debra L. Lee, music company executive Kevin Liles and poet Kenny Carroll "for their tireless work … the excellence and integrity embodied in their work, as well as their willingness to support and participate in programs benefiting their community." Congresswoman Waters said, "I am honored to receive the Congressional Leadership Award from The Ludacris Foundation because this organization is making a real difference in Los Angeles and other communities. Millions of people admire Ludacris for being a talented singer and actor, but I also know him and respect him as a philanthropist who is using his fame and fortune to help young people." Ludacris said that he wanted to recognize the great community service work that Congresswoman Waters has been involved in for more than 30 years and noted that he has worked with her on some projects. According to Roberta Shields, President of the Ludacris Foundation, Congresswoman Waters has participated in activities such as visits to hospitals and recreation centers. More information about the foundation's programs can be found at www.theludacrisfoundation.org ###
10.27.2009	The House Financial Services Committee today passed an amendment offered by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to crack down on foreclosure rescue scams that prey on vulnerable homeowners. The amendment subjects attorneys participating in foreclosure prevention services to regulation by the proposed Consumer Financial Protection Agency. As the number of foreclosures has skyrocketed since the subprime mortgage meltdown started, many "foreclosure consultants" have popped up, promising to protect homeowners. Typically, they charge an excessive fee for services that can be obtained for free from a qualified nonprofit counseling agency or deliver little or nothing for the money received. Although many states prohibit foreclosure rescue consultants from collecting up-front fees, by partnering with an attorney, they can evade such restrictions. An example is the Federal Home Loan Modification Law Center, which qualified as a law firm and charged homeowners as much as $3,495 upfront for services never provided. Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, has been a leading advocate of loan modifications as a way to prevent foreclosures. "Unfortunately, many consumers are being victimized by scam artists offering bogus services. Perhaps some turn to so-called ‘foreclosure rescue consultants" out of frustration when their loan servicer delays providing a loan modification, or they are deceived by the advertising they see. Certainly, it's easy to understand that many consumers would falsely believe that Federal Home Loan Modification Law Center had some affiliation with the federal government. In any case, clearly too many people are being ripped off when they seek assistance to save their homes, and I want to make sure American homeowners are fully protected by the Consumer Financial Protection Agency," she said. Under the proposed language for the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, non-depository financial service providers engaged in financial activity are subject to registration and reporting requirements and examination standards and procedures. However, the bill exempts all attorneys from CFPA's authority. Congresswoman Waters' amendment would not affect most attorneys, as it would hold only those who provide foreclosure prevention services to the same registration and reporting requirements as anyone else who offers to assist in avoiding foreclosure, a group that the bill clearly regulates. The proliferation of attorneys engaged in this type of loan modification scam is so prevalent that at least 23 states have enacted legislation to limit the role of attorneys in loan modification firms. The amendment would not affect attorneys engaged in legal filings related to bankruptcy or foreclosure court proceedings, an exception that is consistent with Massachusetts' law, one of the strongest anti-foreclosure scam laws in the country. Congresswoman Waters' amendment has received the support of prominent consumer and civil rights advocates including Americans for Financial Reform; Center for Responsible Lending; Consumer Action; Consumers Union; Empire Justice Center; National Association of Consumer Advocates; National Community Reinvestment Coalition; National Council of La Raza; National Consumer Law Center; National Fair Housing Alliance; Public Citizen; Sargent Shriver National Center on Poverty Law; and U.S. PIRG. The Financial Services Committee approved Congresswoman Waters' amendment before passing legislation to establish a Consumer Financial Protection Agency (H.R. 3126). CFPA is a central part of financial regulatory reform efforts that President Obama and Congress are engaged in as a response to last year's financial crisis. Congresswoman Waters has been a strong supporter of CFPA. In addition to the amendment cracking down on load modification scams, she offered another amendment approved today to include consumer advocates on the CFPA Oversight Board. ###
10.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today announced the passage of her amendment to H.R. 3126, The Consumer Financial Protection Agency (CFPA) Act of 2009, which would restructure the Agency's Oversight Board to include consumer's voices. "Over the last two years, we have seen the impact of foreclosures on communities, small banking institutions, and our constituents and how predatory financial products like subprime credit cards and mortgage loans were targeted to minorities and low-income consumers," said Congresswoman Waters. "In order to ensure that this doesn't happen again, groups and individuals with the consumer's best interests in mind must have a seat at the table." H.R. 3126 creates a new federal agency tasked with protecting consumers and regulating institutions that offer financial products such as credit cards, mortgages, and payday loans. As originally proposed, the CFPA Oversight Board would be comprised of seven members, representing only federal government agencies. Congresswoman Waters' amendment would require the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate, to name five other Board Members from the fields of consumer protection, fair lending and civil rights, representatives of depository institutions that primarily serve underserved communities, or representatives of communities that have been significantly impacted by higher-priced mortgage loans. Her amendment also provides that no more than 3 of these members can be from the same political party, ensuring that different perspectives are included as part of the Board's conversations. There is precedent for including public and private actors on an Oversight Board. For example, the FDIC's Board consists of 3 persons nominated by the President in addition to the heads of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. The Overseas Private Investment Corporation (an agency which supports U.S. government investment in emerging markets worldwide, fostering development and the growth of free markets) has a Board of Directors with fifteen members— eight from the private sector and seven from the federal government. "Additional voices on the Oversight Board will only ensure that it acts in the best interests of consumers. Without consumer advocates, the Board could miss out on valuable insights and information, including how the CFPA can do a better job of protecting consumers," said Congresswoman Waters. "Adding these additional voices does not in any way endanger the stability of the Board – in fact, it strengthens it." In addition to Congresswoman Waters' amendment, the entire Consumer Financial Protection Agency bill today passed a vote in the House Financial Services Committee and will soon be taken up by the entire House of Representatives. ###
10.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, recognizing the impact foreclosures are having on the country, called on the attorneys general from the nation's 50 states to bring suit against lenders in order to force more loan modifications. "We need aggressive action to force lenders to modify the predatory loans that they made. State attorneys general and civil rights groups are taking the lead in preventing foreclosures by filing lawsuits against the originators of these predatory loans, and I commend them for their action," Chairwoman Waters said. Last year, Congress passed the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008, which created Hope for Homeowners—a mortgage principal reduction program—and the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, which addresses abandoned and foreclosed properties. Earlier this year, Congress passed the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009, which included provisions to facilitate more loan modifications. In March, President Obama established the Making Home Affordable program, which provides monetary incentives for mortgage servicers that modify loans. "Despite all of our efforts in Congress, foreclosure rates are still increasing and show no signs of slowing down," Chairwoman Waters said. "Struggling homeowners need permanent loan modifications to prevent foreclosure. While the Making Home Affordable program has produced 500,000 trial modifications, very few permanent modifications have been provided." Making Home Affordable, which is a voluntary program, allows for a trial modification period of 5 months, during which the homeowner must make timely payments; however, modifications do not always become permanent. Servicers participating in Making Home Affordable have been slow to modify the eligible loans in their loan portfolios. For example, according to the most recent data from the Treasury Department, Bank of America has only modified 11 percent of its eligible loans. Wells Fargo and JP Morgan Chase have modified 20 percent and 27 percent of their eligible loans, respectively. "This is unacceptable," Chairwoman Waters said. According to Realty Trac—an online foreclosure tracking service—foreclosure filings reached a record high in the third quarter of this year, with over 937,000 foreclosure filings during that period. Several settlements in suits filed by the states have demonstrated the impact of litigation in keeping homeowners in their homes. California Attorney General Jerry Brown led the way with a landmark $8.7 billion settlement with Countrywide last year. "Countrywide was the leading architect of the subprime bubble," Chairwoman Waters said. "Attorney General Brown successfully argued that loan originators are responsible for these predatory loans and that they must be held accountable for their actions." In June of this year, Massachusetts Attorney General Martha Coakley reached a settlement with Fremont Investment and Loan and its parent company, Fremont General Corporation. The $10 million settlement will provide much needed funding to address foreclosures and predatory lending and provide assistance to borrowers in the state. Cities have also filed suits. The City of Baltimore is suing Wells Fargo for targeting subprime loans to African-American individuals, families and communities, and the City of Cleveland is suing 21 lenders for making predatory loans. "The cities that have brought suit are dealing with the effects of these foreclosures and the resulting blight, property value decline, and reduced tax base associated with them," Chairwoman Waters said. The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) has also filed suit against most of the country's major mortgage lenders, including Wells Fargo, Chase, Citi Mortgage, GMAC Mortgage, HSBC, SunTrust Mortgage, and others. "I urge the state attorneys general to band together — much as they did when they sued the tobacco companies — and bring a national class action lawsuit against lenders and mortgage servicers," Chairwoman Waters said. Chairwoman Waters has introduced legislation to require mortgage servicers to work with borrowers who default on their loans. "Congress and the Administration have done a lot to address this crisis, but it's not good enough, so I am continuing to search for ways to keep families in their homes," she said. "In the meantime, we need more of these kinds of suits because that is what lenders will respond to." ###
10.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee and a leading advocate for Gulf Coast recovery efforts, issued the following statement today after President Obama visited New Orleans to assess the city's progress and heard from residents about the challenges they continue to face: "More than four years after Hurricane Katrina, I remain concerned about the recovery of the Gulf Coast in general, and the City of New Orleans, in particular. Katrina was one of the deadliest storms in our nation's history, taking over 1,800 lives, displacing more than one million people, severely damaging over 300,000 housing units, and causing at least $81 billion in damages. I know the President shares my concern, which is why he went to New Orleans this afternoon. By visiting a charter school in the Lower Ninth Ward and by holding a town hall event, at which the President heard directly from New Orleanians, he is demonstrating his commitment to the city. There have been 18 official trips by the Obama Administration to the city since January – 35 to the larger Gulf Coast area. The Administration has made significant headway in resolving dozens of federal-state reconstruction project disputes and has released approximately $1.5 billion in additional federal aid to supplement ongoing recovery projects. The Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, which I chair, held two days of field hearings in New Orleans in August to examine the city's recovery and the role of the Road Home and public housing programs in that recovery. The hearings revealed that the Road Home program needs improvement and additional flexibility so that homeowners receive the funding they need to rebuild their homes. As a result of these hearings, I am pressing Road Home officials to resolve the problems homeowners have encountered. I've also begun drafting legislation to give Road Home administrators the flexibility they need to expand the assistance they can provide to homeowners. The hearings also shed light on the state of the city's affordable housing stock following the storm, including the dramatic reduction in public housing as a result of the demolition of the "Big Four" public housing developments. The "Big Four" comprised over 4,500 public housing units that provided much needed affordable housing for families typically earning less than 30 percent of area median income. The units were demolished in 2008; now, the city plans to rebuild 668 public housing units and 1,236 project-based voucher and tax credit units to replace them. I am concerned about the availability and sufficiency of affordable housing in the New Orleans, where rents have risen 52 percent since the storm, and 41 percent of families pay more than 50 percent of their income in rent. More than 35,000 families recently applied for 3,500 Section 8 vouchers, indicating the overwhelming demand for affordable housing. Unfortunately, recent actions by local government officials threaten to make affordable housing even more of a limited commodity. Officials in St. Bernard Parish were held in contempt of court three times by a federal judge for repeated violations of the Fair Housing Act. The parish had refused to grant building permits to a developer who wanted to build multifamily mixed-income housing. While the parish eventually granted the permits, it is now proposing a referendum that would allow voters to ban multifamily housing in the future — essentially performing an end-run around Fair Housing and civil rights laws. I am extremely concerned about this proposed referendum and have expressed these concerns to the Department of Justice. While New Orleans has come a long way since Hurricane Katrina, much work remains to be done. Affordable housing is a critical part of the city's recovery, and I look forward to working with state, local, and federal officials to ensure that affordable housing remains available within the city." ###
10.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) continues to advocate for opportunities for minority- and women-owned businesses, including efforts to boost minority inclusion in the federal government's financial recovery programs. Congresswoman Waters has held a series of meetings with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke, Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner and FDIC Chairman Sheila Bair since the financial crisis began about increasing minority participation and has had some success creating roles for minority-owned firms within the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP) and the Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF). The Congresswoman hosted Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke during a panel she organized to discuss minority inclusion at the recent Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Annual Legislative Conference in Washington, DC. Congresswoman Waters engaged Chairman Bernanke in a one-on-one conversation about the Federal Reserve's efforts to bring minority- and women-owned firms to the table to participate in post-bailout financial recovery and stabilization efforts. "I was very pleased that Chairman Bernanke participated in my special banking panel and appreciated his comments on how women- and minority-owned firms can play a larger role in the post-bailout financial recovery and stabilization process," said Congresswoman Waters. "These firms have just as much expertise in financial services areas as the big Wall Street firms, but they add value to the process by bringing diversity of background, opinion and clients. That is why I will continue working to make sure they have a chance to contribute to our nation's financial recovery." Congresswoman Waters has consistently encouraged the Fed to allow women- and minority-owned firms to play a larger role in the TALF program, which is responsible for lending credit to consumers and businesses in a favorable manner. Because of the Congresswoman's efforts, three of the four agents announced by the Fed to help administer the program so far have been women- and minority-owned firms. "I am encouraged by both public and private conversations I have had with Chairman Bernanke on the Fed's dedication to bringing more women- and minority-owned firms to the table," said Congresswoman Waters. "Though there has been some headway, much ground remains to be covered in order to achieve more equitable representation in post-bailout financial recovery and stabilization efforts. I look forward to working with Chairman Bernanke and the Obama Administration to ensure that all firms are given an equal chance to become part of the process." After the panel with Chairman Bernanke, Congresswoman Waters held two additional panels with experts on minority inclusion matters. Panelists included: Gary Grippo, Treasury Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fiscal Operations and Policy; Thomas J. Curry, Director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; Matthew Kabaker, Senior Advisor to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner; Nathaniel H. Christian, Castleoak Securities; Donald P. Cogsville, The Cogsville Group; Robert L. Johnson, RLJ Companies; Lawrence Parks, Federal Home Loan Bank of San Francisco; Tony Quintero, National Financial Services Consortium; and Donna Sims Wilson, M.R. Beal & Company. This was the 39th Annual Legislative Conference organized by the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation. The event attracts tens of thousands of people from around the country who gather in Washington, DC for issues forums – discussions of critical issues affecting African Americans by panels made up of elected officials, community leaders and celebrities. In addition to the banking issues panel, Congresswoman Waters hosted a forum on eliminating mandatory minimum prison sentences for drug offenses and her popular, provocative and fun "Young, Gifted and Black" forum she created years ago to attract more young people to ALC and get them thinking and talking about issues that directly affect their lives. ###
10.06.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today hosted a panel discussion on the impact of mandatory minimum sentencing – the first of three panels that she is holding during the 39th Congressional Black Caucus Foundation Annual Legislative Conference (ALC). Though Congresswoman Waters has convened an ALC panel on this topic in previous years, she noted the combined importance of a new Administration, a Congress that is moving to pass critical legislation, and sustained and powerful advocacy by legislative, community and academic leaders as reasons why the United States is closer than ever to ending mandatory minimum sentencing for good. "We will need your help – each of you in this room – to work with your organizations and communities to make sure your Representatives and Senators in Congress understand how important it is to pass good bills that will end the injustice of mandatory minimum sentences," said Congresswoman Waters. "We continue to move toward that goal, but it will take all of our strength to get there. I'm optimistic because of the bills that are already moving in Congress and the leadership that we have on this issue throughout the country, represented right here by the people on this esteemed panel and in our audience." This summer the House Judiciary Committee, on which Congresswoman Waters serves, passed the Fairness in Cocaine Sentencing Act, a major step toward ending mandatory minimum sentencing. And just last week the American Bar Association endorsed the Major Drug Trafficking Prosecution Act, a bill Congresswoman Waters has introduced each legislative session over the last decade. Her legislation would focus law enforcement efforts on the top traffickers that facilitate the drug trade. In its endorsement letter the ABA stated that Congresswoman Waters' "much-needed legislation would be a significant step by Congress to address unfairness in the sentencing process and to reduce racial disparities in the federal justice system." During the panel, Congresswoman Waters introduced football great Jim Brown, who was in the audience and whose organization Amer-I-Can teaches individuals self-determination and empowers them to rise above societal ills. "Jim Brown is a legend both on and off the football field," said Congresswoman Waters. "He and his organization Amer-I-Can have been instrumental in providing an outlet for those seeking to better their own lives and in advocating for an end to mandatory minimum sentencing." Jim Brown responded, "My work in Watts, California grew out of the work that Congresswoman Waters did. Like a Mother Theresa of Watts, as a single individual, she made a powerful impact on her community." Harvard Law Professor Charles Ogletree closed out the panel by stressing the need to work with what he called the 5 branches of government: the legislature; the judiciary; the executive branch; the fourth estate (the media); and the community. He also said the messaging surrounding this issue needs to change because elimination of mandatory minimum sentences is "not soft on crime, it's smart on punishment." Congresswoman Waters was joined by an esteemed panel that included: Kemba Smith, a victim of federal mandatory minimum sentencing whose sentence was commuted and who has been described as a "poster child" of the injustices of mandatory minimum sentences; Charles Ogletree, Harvard Law School Jesse Climenko Professor of Law and Executive Director of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice; Judge Terry Hatter, U.S. District Court, Central District of California; Barry Boss, an attorney who co-chairs the ABA's Criminal Justice Section Sentencing Committee and is a former co-chair of the U.S. Sentencing Commission's Practitioners Advisory Group; Nkechi Taifa, a Senior Policy Analyst for the Open Society Institute and Open Society Policy Center; Julie Stewart, President and Founder of Families Against Mandatory Minimums; and Barbara R. Arnwine, Executive Director of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law. ###
10.06.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today issued the following statement on health care reform following the Senate Finance Committee's defeat of amendments offered by Sen. Rockefeller (D-WV) and Sen. Schumer (D-NY) that would include a public option: "I listened with great interest and pride as President Barack Obama spoke to members of Congress and a large audience at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation's (CBCF) Annual Phoenix Awards Dinner this past weekend. Hearing the first African-American president speak in this venue was especially inspiring. "Expressing his vision for our country and the critical areas we need to focus on including education, the economy and health care to move America forward, President Obama said, ‘Now is the time to enact health insurance reform in the United States of America. Now is the time to offer stability and security to Americans who have insurance. Now is the time to make it affordable for those who don't have health insurance. Now is the time to slow the growth of health care costs for our families, and business, our government. That's the kind of reform that we need. Now is the time.' "I agree wholeheartedly with the President on the urgency of reforming our nation's health care system to expand access, maintain quality, reduce costs and ensure security. The fundamental question now is how we can accomplish these objectives. I am concerned that making the wrong choice threatens any chance at meaningful health care reform. As I have stated repeatedly throughout this debate, I will not to vote for legislation that does not include an optional public insurance plan like Medicare to compete with profit-driven private insurance companies. I continue to believe that the best way to achieve these goals is by creating a robust public option. "I know that deep down the President also believes this, even if he is reluctant to say the words ‘public option' at this point. So it is incumbent upon the Congressional Black, Hispanic and Asian-Pacific American Caucuses, the Progressive Caucus and other Members of Congress to pick up the ball and carry it towards the end zone. Although I am disappointed that the Senate Finance Committee did not approve amendments including the public option today, I remain committed to working to pass legislation that will achieve what the President, the majority of Congress and the majority of the American people want: high-quality, affordable, accessible and secure health care. The best way that we can do that is through ensuring that a strong public option is part of a final bill that reaches the President's desk. "The insurance industry has run roughshod over the American people for years, denying coverage, rejecting claims, raising premiums and deductibles, making egregious profits and paying its top executives millions of dollars a year in salaries and bonuses. The private insurance companies cannot be trusted to reform themselves without government competition and reform. "That is why a public option must be included in legislation passed out of the House and Senate to be signed by the President. I will continue to work with my colleagues, the White House and the American people to highlight its importance in meaningful health care reform." ###
10.06.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted today to support individuals and families in California and across the country by extending unemployment insurance benefits to those hit hardest by the recession. The Unemployment Compensation Act of 2009 will provide immediate assistance, extending relief to the estimated 314,000 workers nationwide who would otherwise exhaust their unemployment benefits by the end of September. The bill would also assist the over one million more Americans whose benefits would run out by the end of the year, including approximately 155,000 Californians. "Though signs are pointing to a slow and steady climb out of this recession, Californians and all Americans are still hurting," said Congresswoman Waters. "The families who receive these benefits will be putting money right back into our local economy – buying groceries, filling their cars with gas, and making their mortgage payments on time. This extension will give out-of-work Americans some peace of mind and additional help as they try to provide for their families and look for work." The extension will provide an immediate, effective stimulus to both our state and national economy, which as of August 2009 have unemployment rates of 12.2 and 9.7 percent respectively. The Congressional Budget Office has cited unemployment benefits as one of the most cost-effective forms of economic stimulus because every dollar spent on unemployment benefits generates $1.63 in new demand, according to Moody's chief economist Mark Zandi. The extension is fully paid for and strengthens reporting requirements to reduce unemployment insurance overpayments. The legislation will help families in at least twenty-seven states with the highest unemployment rates, including California. Workers in these states who have exhausted or will soon exhaust their benefits will be eligible for an additional thirteen weeks of insurance, bringing the total to forty-six weeks. "The unemployment rate continues to hover at an uncomfortably high level for all Americans, especially for the African-American and Latino communities," said Congresswoman Waters. "With so many Californians currently looking for work, voting for this extension is an important way to help those hardest hit during this economic downturn. I will do everything in my power to ensure that Californians and all Americans can find gainful employment, stay in their homes, and be set on a sustained path to economic security." ###
10.06.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) yesterday helped pass The Student Aid and Fiscal Responsibility Act (SAFRA) (H.R. 3221), the single largest investment in aid to help students and families pay for college in history. The legislation will expand access to an affordable college education to more American students, transform early education opportunities, and build a world-class community college system – at no cost to taxpayers.. The passage of SAFRA will help build a stronger, more competitive American economy for the future while saving taxpayers money. "This is a crucial step in making sure more young people have the ability to attend college or get career training," said Congresswoman Waters. "SAFRA will also ensure that our work force remains the most highly skilled, cutting-edge and effective in the world and will help rebuild the American economy." This bill is a major step forward in President Obama's initiative to ensure America once again leads the world in college graduates by 2020. SAFRA will reform the system of federal student loans to save the taxpayers $87 billion and will direct $10 billion back to the Treasury to reduce entitlement spending. SAFRA will change the way the student loan system functions by originating new loans through the government's Direct Loan program, but it will also maintain competition among private lenders and non-profits to provide top-notch customer service for student borrowers. This simple change will make college loans more reliable for students and families -- and ensure that loans operate in the best interests of borrowers by reducing many of the potential conflicts of interest that exist in the current loan system. "This commonsense reform is long overdue, and I'm proud to join President Obama and my Democratic colleagues in standing up for the American taxpayer by eliminating billions of dollars in waste, while at the same time dramatically expanding access to essential educational opportunities," said Congresswoman Waters. With the largest ever investment in higher education, this bill will also significantly increase government grant and loan assistance for college tuition payments. Pell Grants, already distributed to more than 7 million students, will increase to $6,900 by 2019 from $5,350 today. SAFRA also keeps interest rates low on government-subsidized loans, makes substantial investments in early childhood education, expands the Perkins low-cost loan program to every U.S. college, and simplifies the process of applying for student financial aid. "With tuition costs at both public and private colleges on the rise even as families struggle through a difficult economy, I'm thrilled we could come together to expand opportunities for higher education in this country," said Congresswoman Waters. "Allowing our students to graduate with a better education and less debt is the best way to ensure that American workers remain competitive long into the future." ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) participated in the grand opening of the Gardena Transit Administration's new operations and maintenance facility today. She noted that the new facility will create 100 jobs, expand training opportunities for transportation employees and improve service for riders. The federal government provided 70 percent of the funding for the facility. "This state-of-the-art facility will help the Gardena Transit Administration meet the growing demand in the South Bay for transportation services," said Congresswoman Waters. The new facility will house vehicles and maintenance equipment. Congresswoman Waters has helped secure millions of dollars for the Municipal Transit Operators Coalition to upgrade bus systems including Gardena's. Gardena has acquired hybrid buses which will be housed at the new facility. The building features many environmentally friendly qualities. It has been designed to conserve energy and use solar panels to generate electricity, filter and circulate air, and reduce water usage. The U.S. Green Building Council is currently reviewing the building for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certification. Photo: Congresswoman Waters at the ribbon cutting for the new Gardena transit facility with (from left to right) State Senator Rod Wright; Councilwoman Rachel Johnson; Whittman Ballenger, Director of Transportation; Councilman Ron Ikejiri; Mayor Paul Tanaka; City Manager Mitch Lansdale; Ray Tellis of the Federal Transit Administration; and Councilman Dan Medina. ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today issued the following statement on the passing of Senator Ted Kennedy (D-MA): "It was with great sorrow that I learned of the passing of Senator Kennedy. I offer my condolences to his family and friends, and also to his millions of admirers and supporters, and I will keep them all in my thoughts and prayers. "There was no one else like Senator Kennedy, and there never will be. The causes he championed during almost half of a century of public service are strong proof that he kept the interests of the most vulnerable Americans in his heart and in his mind, and he applied his pen to these causes, authoring and helping to pass some of our nation's most important pieces of legislation. "He got right to work upon entering the Senate in the early 1960's and was instrumental in the passage of the Civil Rights Act, the Voting Rights Act, and the Fair Housing Act – landmark laws that gave minorities a platform on which they could not only stand but from which they could hold their heads high and assert their political strength. Later in his career he helped establish the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, wrote the Americans with Disabilities Act and the bill to create the State Children's Health Insurance Program, and pushed legislation to raise the federal minimum wage. "As a California State Assemblywoman in 1980, I was impressed by Senator Kennedy's legislative record, his idealism, his concern for those in need, and because of his forward-thinking attitude about what our country could be, and therefore I decided to support him as he pursued the Democratic nomination for President of the United States. I was a delegate at the Democratic Convention and I had the great honor of seconding his nomination. "When Senator Kennedy endorsed Barack Obama for President last year, he said ‘[Obama] is a fighter who cares passionately about the causes he believes in without demonizing those who hold a different view.' Those words could also have been used to describe Senator Kennedy. He was proud to champion liberal policies and passionate about the issues but always willing to listen to others respectfully and willing to negotiate to find common ground when needed. "My life was enriched by knowing and working with the ‘Lion of the Senate'. Though deeply upset by his loss, I am comforted in part by knowing that his legacy will endure, and I will join with fellow progressives in carrying on his work, particularly fulfilling ‘the cause of his lifetime' by passing meaningful health care reform. "My heart goes out to his wife Victoria, his children – including my colleague, Congressman Patrick Kennedy – his grandchildren, and the many other family members, friends, and supporters who are mourning his loss today." ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) emphasized the importance of health care reform in a speech today at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 2009 National HIV Prevention Conference in Atlanta, Georgia. A longtime leader in Congress for directing federal funds and attention to AIDS prevention, treatment, and research, Congresswoman Waters told conference attendees that the U.S. should pursue a National AIDS Strategy that will reduce infections, increase access to insurance and care, and reduce health disparities at a time when two-thirds of all infected Americans are minorities. She also stressed that HIV prevention must be a component of any meaningful health care reform. "As we debate both the specific and general aspects of health care reform in Washington and around the country, forefront in our minds must be the Americans living with diseases such as HIV," said Congresswoman Waters. "For almost 30 years we have continued to learn more about what this disease is, what it does, who it affects most, what kinds of treatment it responds to, and how it can be prevented. I believe that our efforts to reform our broken health care system must focus on securing health insurance coverage for all people stricken by the disease, expanding treatments that will prolong life and lessen pain, and reducing both the number of infections and the disparities historically associated with the disease." Congresswoman Waters was in Atlanta following her recent town hall event on health care reform with constituents in Los Angeles. Tying together health care reform and the need to more urgently and specifically address HIV prevention and treatment issues, she shared her town hall health care presentation with the conference attendees and reiterated her call for a robust public option that will compete with insurance companies to lower premiums, expand choice, and maintain quality. "HIV prevention and treatment services are inextricably linked to the larger issue of affordable, quality health care coverage," said Congresswoman Waters. "Reforming the system to insure all Americans and prevent denials based on discrimination through pre-existing conditions is essential. That way all people, but particularly those most in need of health care access, such as HIV patients, can get the testing, diagnoses, and treatments they need to help them live longer." According to the CDC more than one million Americans are living with HIV/AIDS — and more than one out of five people living with HIV do not know they are infected. Congresswoman Waters recently introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137), which would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. She also introduced H. Res. 592, to highlight National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day, which was celebrated on Tuesday, July 21, 2009. The purpose of the resolution is to encourage physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services; Congresswoman Waters herself was tested that day in Washington, D.C. For more information on the CDC 2009 National HIV Prevention Conference, visit https://www.2009nhpc.org/ ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) wrapped up two-days of hearings by the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, of which she is Chairwoman, by focusing today on the status and availability of affordable, quality public housing due to the near-total demolition of the ‘Big Four' public housing developments in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina. After the hearing Congresswoman Waters, panelists, and other guests participated in a bus tour of the Big Four sites - B.W. Cooper, C.J. Peete, Lafitte, and St. Bernard - and visited the future site of a new public housing development in Iberville, which may be the next development to be demolished and redeveloped. "From what I heard during today's hearing and from what I saw during the bus tour, I continue to have many concerns about the availability and affordability of quality public housing in New Orleans," said Congresswoman Waters. "I steadfastly opposed the destruction of these housing units after Hurricane Katrina because I saw what was coming down the road: an explosion in the number of homeless New Orleanians and the daunting task of rebuilding from scratch. The decision to destroy thousands of these units has done little to help individuals and families in desperate need of housing." Following Hurricane Katrina, the number of homeless people in New Orleans doubled and the average cost of rent increased by approximately 50 percent. The destruction of the housing units in the Big Four, rather than refurbishing and repairing them, has created a situation in which the new developments are faced with a looming completion deadline, devalued tax credits, and high construction costs. Additionally these new units will not be rebuilt on a one-for-one basis but will instead be part of a much smaller mixed-income development, decreasing access for those most in need of subsidized housing, who are often facing homelessness or who are indeed already homeless. "After listening to the concerns of city and community leaders, developers, and residents, I am more convinced than ever on the need for strategic, one-for-one replacement so that we can return all residents to New Orleans," said Congresswoman Waters. "We must keep in mind the individuals and families most in need of, and that will benefit most from, these housing units – the majority of whom are still spread throughout the country four years later." "I believe we covered a substantial amount of ground during our hearings and tours in New Orleans. We all have a lot of work ahead of us but my priority continues to be making sure that quality public housing is available and affordable to New Orleanians as soon as possible. This city has suffered enough; let's get its residents back home and continue our work setting the city on a sustained path to development." ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chairwoman of the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today held the Subcommittee's first of two hearings assessing access to and maintenance of quality housing in New Orleans four years after Hurricane Katrina devastated the city. The hearing, entitled "Implementation of the Road Home Program Four Years after Hurricane Katrina", took place at Dillard University and featured testimony from city and state recovery authorities, the Federal government, nonprofit community and advocacy organizations, universities, developers and residents. Subcommittee members joining Congresswoman Waters included Congressman Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO), Congressman Al Green (D-TX), and Congressman Joseph Cao (R-LA), who represents New Orleans in Congress and was considered a member of the Subcommittee during the hearing. "Today's hearing on the state of Louisiana's Road Home Program was quite telling in how far we still need to go to ensure that all homeowners who suffered terrible personal property losses during Hurricane Katrina – coupled with the additional trauma of living through such a horrific storm – can access a stable, quality and fair source of funds to fix or rebuild their homes," said Congresswoman Waters. "I brought my Subcommittee here to New Orleans because although it has been four years since Hurricane Katrina, I wanted to reiterate to the people of this great city and to the American people that we will never forget what happened here and will never forget our collective responsibility to rebuild homes and businesses." To date the Louisiana Road Home Program has provided almost $8 billion dollars to approximately 125,000 homeowners. However the average award has been just over $60,000, far lower than the amount of money needed for residents of the city to engage in significant repair or rebuilding projects. Compounding the immediate problem of low awards are disparities of many different kinds. According to the NAACP, African Americans on average have received approximately $8,000 less than white households for comparable reconstruction projects. Income, age and home title registration disparities, typically affecting minorities and the elderly, are also prevalent factors that impede access and assistance. "The disparities that exist for individuals seeking assistance to rebuild or repair their homes are unacceptable," said Congresswoman Waters. "It is high time to get serious and get beyond just talking about doing something to help these people: four years after Hurricane Katrina we still have individuals living in trailers, seeking additional benefits, dispersed throughout the country in unfamiliar cities, and disconnected from their families, friends, and their hometown. "Based on what I have heard here today it is my hope that moving forward the State of Louisiana, the City of New Orleans, the management corporations, the housing authorities and the relevant community organizations can work together to ensure that the award process is reformed so that awards are available, flow more quickly, and are reflective of both market value and what the residents of this city are up against as they seek to start their lives anew." Congresswoman Waters will hold a second hearing at Dillard University tomorrow at 10am, entitled the "Status of the ‘Big Four' Four Years After Hurricane Katrina," which will focus on the future reconstruction and redevelopment of the main public housing developments in New Orleans that were heavily damaged following Hurricane Katrina. ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today offered the following statement on the passing of her friend and noted civil and human rights leader Mary Henry: "Mary Henry was a dear friend and I'm deeply saddened by her loss. She had suffered for quite sometime now and though I am relieved that she is free from the pain of her long illness, her death is a great loss for our community and a personal loss for me. For years Mary was not only the founder and Executive Director of the Avalon Carver Community Center, which provided social services for needy families and individuals such as housing support, education opportunities, and health care, but she was also a concerned and engaged citizen of the community who knew what the stakes were for many of the less fortunate that she worked and lived among. She was a role model for me and other aspiring community leaders. You could count on Mary working with other community leaders to be at the forefront of all the issues of concern to the overall South Los Angeles Community. She was recognized locally and nationally for her community organization and service work, among those honors being named the Los Angeles Times' Woman of the Year and working with President Johnson to spearhead local efforts for his War on Poverty. She helped create Head Start, a program I was involved with early in my career, and was a constant advocate and supporter of the Martin Luther King/Drew Medical Center through good times and bad. She was not only an expert community organizer but was also an extremely articulate woman who was able to speak on behalf of the community to all types of groups, organizations, and legislative bodies. She never hesitated in her strong advocacy on the issues of importance to those in need. Even after she became ill, she showed up at important community events and shared her wisdom, her expertise, and her advice. Mary was in the hierarchy of the Lutheran church and regarded her faith as a cornerstone of her life. My life was enriched by simply knowing her. She was indeed a friend and a mentor and I shall be forever grateful for all that she shared with me and the support that she gave me over the years. My thoughts and prayers are with Mary's family and friends." ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today responded to news from over the weekend that the public option – a government-run health insurance plan to expand consumer choice and compete with private health insurance companies – has all but been removed from ongoing health care reform negotiations: "I am very troubled to hear that after months of negotiations – supposedly moving toward meaningful health care reform – the public option may in fact be off the table," said Congresswoman Maxine Waters. "As I have said before, particularly in conjunction with my colleagues in the Congressional Progressive Caucus, I will not be able to support a health care reform bill that does not guarantee the creation of a public option that will provide an alternative for the 47 million uninsured Americans and millions more who face rising premiums, deductibles and co-pays. "The American people are strongly in favor of a public option as an alternative competitor to private insurance companies. How can we expect these insurance companies to expand access and make health care insurance more affordable without increased competition? "The pressure on Congress from lobbyists who represent health care reform opponents is immense: recent reports suggest there may be as many as 6 lobbyists for each Member of Congress working to defeat meaningful health care reform. I cannot and will not sit by and quietly allow outside opposition to dismantle a program meant to provide the American people with an option so that they and their families can access quality, affordable health care. "As part of National Health Center Week I recently attended several events in my district where nonprofit organizations such as RAM-LA and community clinics such as the South Bay Family Healthcare Center and the Venice Family Clinic offered free health screenings and other necessary medical treatments to thousands of Angelenos who simply cannot afford them. After seeing firsthand the overwhelming demand for these services – compounded by the 14,000 Americans losing their health insurance each day and by persistently high national unemployment and foreclosure rates– I have never been more convinced of the immediate need to reform our health insurance system. "I strongly urge my colleagues involved in health care reform negotiations to join me in standing up in support of the public option and not caving in to insurance company opposition – we've played their game before and the losers are millions of working Americans and their families who either spend a disproportionate amount of their income on health insurance or who simply cannot afford health insurance in the first place." ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today toured the Venice Family Clinic in Mar Vista Gardens as part of National Health Center Week (August 9-15), which recognizes the importance of community health centers for patients in need. Participating centers throughout the Los Angeles area are providing a variety of free health screenings and services to commemorate the week. In fact, Venice Family Clinic already offers free health care services to its diverse, 24,400 patients. "The Mar Vista Gardens Clinic and the larger Venice Family Clinic system have been providing high-quality, no-cost health care to thousands of area residents for many years. These clinics are often the only access to health care that some of my constituents receive, particularly here in Mar Vista Gardens, and so I am happy to be here today to tour the clinic and see the important services available to those in need," said Congresswoman Waters. The Venice Family Clinic Mar Vista Gardens site is located on the grounds of the Mar Vista Gardens housing development, which is the largest public housing development on the Westside of Los Angeles County. After touring this clinic Congresswoman Waters visited a new, larger Venice Family Clinic under construction just a few blocks away, which will triple its capacity in the Mar Vista area. In addition to primary care, the new site will offer expanded mental health, dental, and health education services. Congresswoman Waters then presented a Certificate of Special Recognition to Venice Family Clinic's CEO, Elizabeth Benson Forer, in recognition of National Health Center Week and Venice Family Clinic's work providing free, quality health care to people in need from Venice, Santa Monica, Mar Vista, Inglewood, and Culver City. "Since approximately 47 million Americans live each day without health insurance, there is a desperate need for access to affordable, quality health care in this country. I commend Ms. Benson Forer and the physicians, staff and volunteers of the Venice Family Clinic for doing what they can in this economic and health care environment to meet the needs of the patients that they serve. Their impact here on the Westside of Los Angeles and throughout the Metro area is one of vital importance and great worth." Venice Family Clinic is the largest free clinic in the country. It commemorated National Health Center Week with a special outreach event on Health Care for the Homeless Day, Wednesday, August 12. Nearly 4,000 of Venice Family Clinic's 24,400 patients are homeless. The second week of August each year is dedicated National Health Center Week, recognizing the service and contributions of Community, Migrant, Homeless and Public Housing Health Centers in providing access to affordable, high quality, cost-effective health care to medically vulnerable and underserved people in the U.S. More information can be found at www.healthcenterweek.org or www.venicefamilyclinic.org ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today toured the South Bay Family Health Care clinic in Gardena as part of National Health Center Week (August 9-15), which recognizes the importance of community health centers for patients in need. South Bay Family Health Care (SBFHC) centers are providing a variety of free health screenings through August 14th; the Gardena clinic provided free blood sugar testing today. "The Gardena clinic and the larger South Bay Family Health Care system have been providing high-quality, low-cost – sometimes free – health care to thousands of area residents for many years. These clinics are often the only access to health care that some of my constituents receive, and so I am happy to be here today to tour the clinic and see the important services available to those in need. The blood sugar screenings provided for free today can detect diabetes and other ailments that affect many people in our communities," said Congresswoman Waters. She added, "Since approximately 47 million Americans live each day without health insurance, there is a desperate need for access to affordable, quality health care in this country. I commend SBFHC for doing what it can in this economic and health care environment to meet the needs of the patients that it serves." Services available at SBFHC clinics include: general medical services; chronic disease management; women's health; prenatal care; pediatric care; dental care; and social services. In 2007, SBFHC served over 16,000 patients of all ages, ethnicities, and races. Because of its track record in the community and the amount of patients that it serves, SBFHC was awarded $338 million in Increased Demand for Services grants under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. Congresswoman Waters is scheduled to visit Mar Vista Gardens tomorrow, where Venice Family Clinic provides health care to community residents. Venice Family Clinic, the largest free clinic in the country, serves 23,500 low-income and uninsured patients through eight sites in Venice, Santa Monica, Mar Vista and Culver City. The second week of August each year is dedicated National Health Center Week, recognizing the service and contributions of Community, Migrant, Homeless and Public Housing Health Centers in providing access to affordable, high quality, cost-effective health care to medically vulnerable and underserved people in the U.S. More information can be found at www.healthcenterweek.org or www.sbfhc.org ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today welcomed Remote Area Medical (RAM) to the Forum in Inglewood, where the foundation will be providing a wide range of free medical, dental and vision care to area residents from August 11th until August 18th. "There are 47 million Americans who do not have health insurance, and there is a desperate need for access to affordable health care. While the debate goes on in Washington and across the country about how best to reform and improve health care, RAM is providing free health care to thousands of Los Angeles area residents. I welcome RAM to our community, and I thank Stan Brock, RAM's founder, and the hundreds of doctors, nurses, dentists and optometrists who are volunteering their services here in the 35th Congressional District," said Congresswoman Waters who joined other elected officials and community leaders at a press conference at the Forum. The health care clinic will provide free care to anyone who needs it. An income test or proof of insurance is not required. Services available include: physical exams and medical consultations, blood lab work, chest x-rays, mammograms and Pap smears, acupuncture, chiropractic care and more. In addition, dentists will be providing free dental exams, cleanings, fillings, extractions and root canals. Free eye exams and prescription glasses – and even cataract surgery – will also be available. RAM has conducted humanitarian medical missions in developing countries around the world and in depressed rural areas of the United States. This health clinic, known as RAM-LA, is part of a new effort to serve urban America, where millions of uninsured and underinsured Americans live. "RAM's clinic in Inglewood is expected to be the largest free health care event of its kind anywhere in the world. This is a wonderful humanitarian service for which the community is grateful. I encourage everyone in need of health care to come to the Forum during this week of free care," said Congresswoman Waters. More information can be found at www.ramusa.org/expeditions/2009/ramla2009.htm ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) received the Distinguished Civil Rights Advocate Award from the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law today at the National Bar Association's 84th Annual Convention in San Diego, California. The Lawyers' Committee cited Congresswoman Waters' work as a public servant, an advocate on behalf of the poor and disenfranchised, and a mentor and role model for women and youth among its primary reasons for honoring her. "I couldn't be happier or more humbled to be with you tonight and to accept The Distinguished Civil Rights Advocate Award," said Congresswoman Waters. "I have spent my entire life advocating on behalf of women, children, minorities, and the most at-risk individuals in our society because I have always known that it's the right thing to do. Although I never sought awards or recognition for this work, it is very special for me to receive this honor from an organization dedicated to protecting the rights of all." The Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law pays tribute to individuals whose leadership reflects an enduring commitment to protecting civil rights and promoting the dignity and worth of every human being regardless of race, gender, or social status. Past recipients of the award include former Detroit Mayor Dennis Archer, former Chair of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission Mary Frances Berry, National Urban League President and CEO Marc H. Morial, and United States District Court Judge Thelton E. Henderson. "I am particularly honored to stand among such great names in civil rights," said Congresswoman Waters. "I want to thank my friend Barbara Arnwine, Executive Director of the Lawyers' Committee, for nominating me and for her personal assistance in much of the work that I do in New Orleans and throughout the country." "As a member of the House Committee on the Judiciary and as an active citizen involved in the African American and women's rights communities, there's no slowing down for me when it comes to promoting and protecting civil rights." The Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law is a private, nonprofit, nonpartisan organization formed in 1963 at the request of President John F. Kennedy to enlist private lawyers and law firms in civil rights law enforcement. Since that time, the Lawyers' Committee has been on the forefront of efforts to secure civil rights and improve race relations among Americans. Founded in 1925, the National Bar Association is the nation's oldest and largest association of African American lawyers and judges. ###
09.01.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) voted today to protect American taxpayers and shareholders from the excessive and risky compensation practices at big financial firms. These practices contributed to the collapse of the financial markets last fall and subsequently triggered an economic meltdown felt by millions of hard-working Americans. The Corporate and Financial Institution Compensation Fairness Act is the first piece of a larger regulatory reform package the House will take up in the fall to fulfill its commitment to rebuild the economy and restore Americans' faith in the financial system. "For years, large financial firms have gambled with our financial future because their salary and bonus structures encouraged risky behavior," said Congresswoman Waters. "This bill reins in executive compensation at these firms to protect shareholders, and ultimately American taxpayers, from the kind of financial ruin we saw last year." The Corporate and Financial Institution Compensation Fairness Act puts an end to the perverse incentives that encourage executives at large financial firms to take excessive risks at the expense of their companies, employees and shareholders. It requires federal regulators to monitor inappropriate or risky compensation practices and compels large financial firms to disclose any compensation structures that include incentive-based elements. The bill also gives shareholders at public companies a say on the pay for top executives. "This bill is an important part of our broader strategy to rebuild the economy and make it stronger and safer than it was before, as we continue to experience foreclosures, layoffs and soaring costs of health care and education. Regulatory reform is absolutely crucial to that effort," said Congresswoman Waters, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee. "Moving forward, I will continue to lead efforts to create the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, a vital component of any meaningful regulatory reform meant to protect American consumers from deceptive and confusing financial products and practices like risky mortgages and unfair credit card fees."###
08.06.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters [D-CA]: Mr. Speaker, I rise to add my voice to my colleagues' plea to this administration to make ending the genocide in Darfur a top priority. Mr. Speaker, I rise, joining my colleagues, thanking them for all of the work that they have done. The Congressional Black Caucus, led by Mr. DONALD PAYNE, have done everything we could possibly do. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus and other concerned Members of Congress have written letters to the Bush administration, letters to the United Nations, visited the United Nations on more than one occasion, met with Kofi Annan. We have done everything we could possibly do. Each of us individually have written letters. I wrote to the President back in 2004 and implored him to take action. In July of 2004, I sent letters to the other members of the United Nations Security Council, urging that the United Nations take action to end the slaughter in Sudan. This letter was signed by 41 Members of Congress, including my good friend from across the aisle, Congressman SPENCER BACHUS. Last April, Members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary of State Condoleeza Rice expressing our support for the appointment of a Special Envoy for Sudan. Well, I understand 2 years later, after the administration even admitted and agreed that genocide was going on and after the Members of Congress have sent letters to the Secretary of State and to the President, finally an envoy is being sent to the Sudan. A little bit late, but we are appreciative for that. We are desperate. Also, last April the House of Representatives passed H.R. 3127, the Darfur Peace Accountability Act by an overwhelming vote of 416-3. This bill would impose sanctions on the Government of Sudan and block the assets and restrict travel to individuals who are responsible for acts of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity in Darfur. Unfortunately, the Senate has yet to take up the bill. I understand that the Senate will be taking up the bill, but they have stripped out an important part of the bill on divestment, but we are desperate. Even with that part of it stripped out, we want this bill passed. My colleague DONALD PAYNE who helped to author this bill has done everything that he could possibly do to get the Senate to move this bill. We humbly come before the people of this country tonight, not only imploring the President of the United States to use his bully pulpit to make this a priority, to talk with the Chinese, to talk with whomever needs to be talked with, to get something done, to get those troops up there to stop this genocide. Earlier this year, I traveled to Sudan as part of a bipartisan congressional delegation led by NANCY PELOSI, the minority leader. We visited the refugee camps. As far as the eye could see, there were crowds of displaced persons who had been driven from their homes, living literally on the ground, the little tarps just covering them. It is unconscionable that this should continue. On April 28, and again on May 16, several of my colleagues were arrested in front of the Embassy of Sudan, protesting the genocide. And as I said, yesterday, finally, Bush appointed a Special Envoy for Sudan, and this is 2 years after the Bush administration determined that genocide was taking place in Darfur. Again, it is late, but we are appreciative; but we want to say in no uncertain terms, the President must lead an all-out diplomatic offensive in support of a robust United Nations peacekeeping force that will have the authority to protect the people of Darfur. More than 450,000 people have died since 2003 as a result of the genocide in Darfur. There are 2.5 million displaced people in camps in Darfur and another 350,000 in refugee camps in neighboring Chad. Almost 7,000 people are dying every month in Darfur. There can be no doubt that what is taking place in Darfur is genocide and the Government of Sudan is responsible. Crimes against humanity in Darfur have escalated in recent months. Over 500 women were raped over the summer in one camp alone. There have been renewed attacks and aerial bombardment and 12 humanitarian workers were killed, two of them in the last 4 weeks. If the United Nations does not intervene in Darfur now, the death toll could rise dramatically in the next few months. The world stood by and watched the genocide that occurred in Rwanda. The world has noted over and over again the atrocities of the Holocaust. Well, enough said. To see the speach select the link. https://www.house.gov/waters/media/9-20-06_Darfur.wmv ###
08.03.2009	The House Financial Services Committee today approved the Section Eight Voucher Reform Act of 2009 (H.R. 3045), landmark legislation sponsored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA). The bill would reform the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program, which provides rental housing assistance to 2 million low-income American families. "As a result of the economic crisis and increases in foreclosures and homelessness, the Section 8 program is more important now than ever before," said Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee. "By improving and expanding the program, this bill would ensure that Section 8 can respond to this crisis." H.R. 3045 would establish a stable, fair and cost-effective funding system for the Section 8 program and would ensure that no tenant is ever at risk of losing housing assistance due to unexpected budget shortfalls. It would also restore previous assistance levels by authorizing 150,000 new vouchers. Under the bill, several critical provisions streamline the process of providing Section 8 housing assistance. The calculations governing tenant rent payments are simplified, reducing the burden on housing agencies, tenants and private owners of subsidized housing. The bill likewise streamlines the housing inspection process, along with administrative burdens that make it difficult to transfer vouchers between jurisdictions. Additionally, the bill provides the flexibility needed for public housing authorities to preserve affordable housing by allowing agencies to make greater use of "project-based" vouchers. The bill also reforms Moving to Work, renaming it the Housing Innovation Program, which currently permits the Department of Housing and Urban Development to waive certain regulations for 30 public housing agencies, allowing them to experiment with different rent structures and programs. To ensure the efficacy of the program in addressing the needs of the most vulnerable households, the bill provides for rigorous evaluation requirements, stronger tenant protections, and clearer program goals to ensure effective use of federal funds. ###
08.03.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today reacted to passage in the U.S. House of Representatives of her resolution honoring the Los Angeles Lakers on their 15th National Basketball Association Finals Championship, H. Res. 566, in the same manner that she watched the Lakers capture the title last month – with great pride and enthusiasm as a fan. "As the NBA Finals Champions, the 2009 Los Angeles Lakers are quite deserving of this honor the House of Representatives has bestowed upon them," said Congresswoman Waters. "The Lakers kept us on the edge of our seats all season, never failing to amaze us with their teamwork, talent, and determination." The 2009 Los Angeles Lakers worked extremely hard to go all the way to victory in the Finals. Their 65-17 regular season record put them in the #1 spot for the playoffs in the competitive Western Conference, which led to hard-fought but well-deserved victories over the Utah Jazz, the Houston Rockets, and the Denver Nuggets. In the Finals the Lakers played the Eastern Conference Champions, the Orlando Magic. Congresswoman Waters and her colleague Congresswoman Corrine Brown of Florida had some fun at the outset of the first game playing up their team's assets and laying out their team's path to victory. Congresswoman Waters confidently – and accurately – predicted the Lakers' victory. After a few spirited games, including a blowout Lakers victory in Game 1, the Lakers clinched the title in five games. "The effective leadership and talent of Coach Phil Jackson and the athleticism and team spirit demonstrated by Kobe Bryant, Lamar Odom, Derek Fisher, Paul Gasol, and Trevor Ariza – a graduate of Westchester High School in my District – made for an unstoppable combination," said Congresswoman Waters. "Like previous Laker greats such as Jerry West, Wilt Chamberlain, Earvin ‘Magic' Johnson, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Shaquille O'Neal, Pat Riley, and of course Coach Phil Jackson who now holds 10 NBA Finals Championships, the players on this year's team have cemented their place in the history books. Congratulations once again to the 2009 Los Angeles Lakers." Video of Congresswoman Waters speaking in support of her resolution can be seen at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EMLmCO-b-Q0&feature=channel_page ###
08.03.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) expressed her strong support for the creation of the Consumer Financial Protection Agency (CFPA) as a key element of financial services regulatory reform efforts by Congress and the Administration. A copy of her remarks from a press conference she attended with Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank and leading consumer advocates follows: (as prepared for delivery) Thank you Mr. Chairman, and thanks to all of the consumer groups who are here with us today. At a time when it seems the banking industry has three lobbyists for each Member of Congress, your efforts are more important than ever. We are here this morning to express our resounding support for the proposed Consumer Financial Protection Agency. Consumers have been abused and exploited for too long, and the time has come for us to take a stand against predatory practices and pass this bill. America's current economic crisis was caused in part by a lack of regulation over consumer financial products initiated by both banks and non-banks, who were allowed to extend credit without any regulations or standards to guide them. As a result, consumers fell prey to unscrupulous loan initiators who put them into subprime mortgages that they could not afford, such as adjustable rate mortgages, Alt-A loans, and liar loans. The Consumer Financial Protection Agency would put an end to those practices and regulate the mainstream banking industry and the non-bank and shadow lending industries. Consumers have also been led astray by the mainstream banking industry. Many large banks encouraged consumers to refinance or take on more debt, using their homes as collateral. As home prices have fallen and many homeowners have lost their jobs and millions of families are being squeezed, the American dream has morphed into a nightmare for millions at risk of losing their homes to foreclosure. These mainstream banks, many of whom pushed these products and operate substantial servicing arms, have shown no leadership and been of little help. It is my hope that this agency will make sure these types of problems never happen again. We need to make sure that servicing is regulated, as well as financial products including mortgages, pay-day loans and credit cards. Consumers will not be safe until we make sure they can obtain proper support and help with the products that most impact their daily lives. That means that they shouldn't have to wait two hours to speak with their servicer, or wait three months to have their loans considered for modification. We must stand firm in our support for CFPA, even in the face of opposition from the big banking lobby, and we say, "Enough is enough!" I am encouraged by the presence of leading consumer groups with us here today, and I know there are many more working around the country to build support for the Consumer Financial Protection Agency. When average Americans hear about this agency, they understand it and they welcome it. Risky products have endangered people's credit, their income, and their lives, compounding the problems weighing down the American economy. We must enact CFPA to protect American consumers and families and to help the economy heal. ###
08.03.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today celebrated National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day and encouraged the nation's health care workers to be tested for HIV. "Doctors, nurses, and other clinicians play a critical role in encouraging patients to get tested for HIV. I urge all clinicians to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services in their communities, and I urge all clinicians to take an HIV test and set a good example for their patients to follow," said Congresswoman Waters, who recently took an HIV test to underscore that testing is important, easy and quick. Congresswoman Waters has introduced a resolution, H. Res. 592, in honor of the second annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. A total of 21 Members of Congress representing both political parties cosponsored this resolution. The resolution urges physicians, nurses, dentists and other clinicians nationwide to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services, and it also urges individuals to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS. Congresswoman Waters has sponsored several other initiatives in the 111th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. Encouraging HIV screening: Congresswoman Waters introduced H.R. 2137, the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. This bill has 40 cosponsors. Congresswoman Waters also sent a letter signed by 21 Members to House leaders requesting that the comprehensive health care reform legislation include provisions guaranteeing that health insurance plans cover routine HIV tests. 2. Expanding the Minority AIDS Initiative: Congresswoman Waters continues her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. On April 3, 2009, she sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2010, and 53 Members of Congress signed her letter. 3. Preventing the spread of AIDS: She introduced H.R. 1429, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on March 17, 2009, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. ###
08.03.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters introduced the Credit Default Swap Prohibition Act of 2009 (H.R. 3145) last night. Citing concerns that current regulatory reform proposals would require central-counterparty clearing but provide exceptions to supervision over customized credit default swaps, Congresswoman Waters offered H.R. 3145 to put a total prohibition on these financial instruments. "Credit default swaps are one of many contributing factors to the current economic crisis," said Congresswoman Waters. "I applaud the sweeping reforms to the financial regulatory system that have been proposed, but I believe we must go even further. Preventing all credit default swaps is essential to bringing stability to the market and preventing a similar crisis in the future." Congresswoman Waters was inspired to write H.R. 3145 in part by the crisis involving American International Group (AIG), which wrote credit default swap contracts in which both parties involved had exposure to the underlying reference asset. These swaps ended up causing the company's downfall, costing thousands of jobs and billions in taxpayer dollars. Congresswoman Waters is joined in her concerns by some of America's top financial minds. Leading financier George Soros has called credit default swaps "instruments that should be outlawed" and has compared these swaps to "buying life insurance on someone else's life, and owning a license to kill." Charles Munger, Vice Chairman of Berkshire Hathaway also believes credit default swaps should be eliminated, calling their prohibition "the best solution." Munger has also noted that "it isn't as though the economic world didn't function quite well without it, and it isn't as though what has happened has been so wonderfully desirable that we should logically want more of it." "Unless credit default swaps are banned entirely, I am concerned that the industry will find a way to loosen standards and widen exemptions for customized contracts and then we will be right back to where we are today, with capital markets hobbled and the financial system in need of additional government intervention," said Congresswoman Waters. "This Act, combined with President Obama's proposed regulatory reforms, will ensure that our financial markets are resistant to future attempts at reckless behavior." ###
07.30.2009	Last night, Reps. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Barney Frank (D-MA) and James A. Leach (R-IA) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary John Snow, urging him to negotiate an agreement that provides 100% cancellation of the debts of impoverished countries at the upcoming meeting of the G-7 Finance Ministers on February 4-5. Seventy-one Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: As part of your efforts to achieve debt relief for the world's most impoverished countries, we write to urge you to negotiate an agreement that provides 100% cancellation of multilateral debts owed by impoverished countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America at the upcoming meeting of the G-7 Finance Ministers on February 4-5 in London. Impoverished countries will never be able to eradicate poverty as long as they must continue to make payments on old loans that they never will be able to repay. Money that impoverished countries must send to creditors such as the IMF and the World Bank is money that is not spent on pressing social needs like health care, education and clean water. Debt payments to multilateral creditors also interfere with poor countries' efforts to recover from disasters like the recent earthquake and tsunami in Asia. The people of impoverished countries need a chance; they need full debt cancellation. Existing programs that provide limited debt relief - most notably the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative of the IMF and the World Bank - have proven that even partial debt relief is an effective way to reduce poverty. The most recent analysis of the HIPC Initiative by the IMF and the World Bank shows that since 1999, countries that received the limited debt relief provided by the HIPC Initiative almost doubled their poverty-reduction expenditures. However, the limited relief available under the HIPC Initiative has failed to provide a lasting solution to the debt crisis. HIPC countries still send more than $2 billion in debt service payments to the IMF and the World Bank each year. Debt service payments for HIPC countries have been reduced by less than one-third. Furthermore, several impoverished countries that were excluded from the HIPC Initiative are in urgent need of debt relief. We urge you to negotiate an agreement that provides 100% multilateral debt cancellation for all countries eligible for the HIPC Initiative, as well as other needy and deserving countries, at the upcoming G-7 Finance Ministers' meeting. We look forward to your response and to working with you to achieve a historic breakthrough canceling all of the multilateral debts of impoverished countries early this year. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Spencer Bachus Barney Frank James A. Leach Carolyn Maloney John Conyers Bob Filner Sanford Bishop Maurice Hinchey Bennie Thompson Sheila Jackson-Lee Robert Andrews Juanita Millender-McDonald Earl Blumenauer Norm Dicks Bobby L. Rush Jesse Jackson, Jr. George Miller Donald Payne Lane Evans José Serrano Edolphus Towns Bernard Sanders Elijah Cummings Rosa DeLauro Chaka Fattah Bart Gordon Major Owens Sherrod Brown Gene Green Alcee Hastings Charles Rangel Marcy Kaptur Luis Gutierrez David Scott James P. McGovern Artur Davis Robert Wexler Fortney Pete Stark Joseph Crowley Cynthia McKinney John Lewis Diane Watson William Lacy Clay Barbara Lee Jan Schakowsky Raúl Grijalva Dennis Kucinich Peter DeFazio Eleanor Holmes Norton Eliot Engel Stephanie Tubbs Jones Rush Holt Tammy Baldwin Jim McDermott John Olver Sam Farr Susan Davis Tom Udall Grace Napolitano Lois Capps Gregory Meeks Michael Honda Hilda Solis Neil Abercrombie Donna Christensen Eddie Bernice Johnson Al Green Julia Carson Michael R. McNulty Carolyn C. Kilpatrick ###
07.30.2009	Last night, Reps. Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent a letter from 36 Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) members to President Bush and Treasury Secretary John Snow, urging them to cancel the debts of poor countries in Africa and throughout the world. The letter coincides with reports of a limited agreement between President Bush and Britain's Prime Minister Tony Blair to cancel the debts of 18 poor countries. "I was encouraged that President Bush and Prime Minister Blair discussed debt cancellation during their summit meeting, but I am concerned by reports that their agreement cancels the debts of only 18 countries," said Congresswoman Waters. "This agreement would not even cover the 27 countries that are already included in the HIPC Initiative." The Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative of the IMF and the World Bank provides limited debt relief to 27 poor countries; 23 of them are in Africa, and 4 are in Latin America. "Our letter urges the President to negotiate an agreement to provide 100% debt cancellation to poor countries in Africa and throughout the world," said Congresswoman Waters. "Our letter requests debt cancellation for all 23 African countries that are included in the HIPC Initiative, as well as countries like South Africa that were not included in the HIPC Initiative." Earlier this year, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.R. 1130, the JUBILEE Act, a bill to cancel completely the multilateral debts of 50 impoverished countries. The JUBILEE Act is cosponsored by a bipartisan group of 71 Members of Congress. "I hope that President Bush and Prime Minister Blair will extend the benefits of debt cancellation to all countries that need it," said the Congresswoman. The text of the letter and the 36 CBC members who signed it follow: As members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), we are deeply concerned about the overwhelming debts that burden poor countries in Africa and throughout the world. We urge you to negotiate an agreement that provides 100% cancellation of multilateral debts owed by poor countries during the upcoming G-7 Finance Ministers' meeting on June 10-11 and the subsequent G-8 Summit in Gleneagles, Scotland, on July 6-8. Many poor countries have been unable to eradicate poverty, address the HIV/AIDS crisis, or develop their economies because of the overwhelming burden of multilateral debts. It has been estimated that African countries spend an average of $14 per person on debt service payments to multilateral institutions like the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank and less than $5 per person on health care. The limited debt relief available through the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative of the IMF and the World Bank has made a difference in the lives of millions of people in poor countries. Uganda used the savings from debt relief to double school enrollment and significantly reduce the HIV infection rate. Mozambique vaccinated half-a-million children, and Tanzania eliminated school fees and built over 31,000 new classrooms. An analysis of the HIPC Initiative by the IMF and the World Bank shows that since 1999, the 23 countries in Africa that received debt relief more than doubled their poverty-reduction expenditures. Unfortunately, the HIPC Initiative has failed to provide a lasting solution to the poor country debt crisis. Debt service payments for HIPC countries have been reduced by less than one-third, and the 23 African countries that have received debt relief under HIPC still spent over $2 billion on debt service payments last year. Other impoverished countries, like South Africa, were completely excluded from the HIPC Initiative and received no debt relief at all. We strongly urge you to negotiate an agreement that provides 100% multilateral debt cancellation for poor countries in Africa and throughout the world at the upcoming G-7 Finance Ministers' meeting and the subsequent G-8 Summit. We look forward to your response and to working with you to achieve a historic breakthrough this summer that will cancel poor countries' debts once and for all. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Barbara Lee Donald Payne Charles B. Rangel John Conyers Bobby Rush Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. Gwen Moore Donna M. Christensen Eddie Bernice Johnson Danny K. Davis Al Green Julia Carson Carolyn Kilpatrick Emanuel Cleaver II Gregory Meeks Diane E. Watson William Lacy Clay Artur Davis Cynthia McKinney John Lewis G. K. Butterfield David Scott Eleanor Holmes Norton Edolphus Towns Elijah E. Cummings Melvin Watt Chaka Fattah Major R. Owens Sanford Bishop Bennie G. Thompson Sheila Jackson-Lee Corrine Brown Juanita Millender-McDonald William Jefferson Kendrick B. Meek ###
07.30.2009	Today, at a press conference on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), expressed her strong opposition to CAFTA, the U.S. Central American Free Trade Agreement. The Congresswoman made the following statement: CAFTA is a bad deal for working people throughout the United States and Central America. CAFTA will encourage profit-hungry corporations to ship American manufacturing jobs to poor countries in Central America, where workers can be forced to work long hours for little pay and no benefits. Forty percent of Central American workers earn less than two dollars per day, and many labor under oppressive working conditions. CAFTA allows companies to exploit cheap labor in Central America, but it does nothing to protect labor rights or improve working conditions. Opposition to CAFTA is widespread, not only in the United States, but in Central America as well. Our Central American colleagues have informed us that CAFTA will displace Central American farmers, restrict access to life-saving medicine, and increase poverty among their people. We want a trade deal that will create good jobs and provide real benefits to the poor people of Central America, as well as the working people of the United States. CAFTA isn't it. ###
07.30.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, Reps. Maxine Waters (D-CA), James A. Leach (R-IA), Barney Frank (D-MA), Spencer Bachus (R-AL) and Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY) sent a letter to President Bush to commend him on the negotiation of the G-8 Finance Ministers' agreement to cancel poor country debts. The text of the letter follows: We commend you and the G-8 Finance Ministers for your agreement to cancel poor country debts. This bold agreement goes beyond previous debt reduction and debt rescheduling plans to cancel completely the debts that burden poor countries. We are pleased that the G-8 Finance Ministers' agreement will eliminate immediately more than $40 billion in outstanding debts owed by 18 of the world's poorest countries and free them from the burden of approximately $1.5 billion in annual debt service payments to the IMF, the World Bank and the African Development Bank. Debt cancellation will allow these 18 countries to reduce poverty and improve health and education for their people. We also are pleased that the G-8 Finance Ministers' agreement includes a plan to finance debt cancellation for additional poor countries that are pursuing economic and governance reforms. We sincerely hope that complete debt cancellation will be extended quickly to all needy and deserving poor countries so that their people will likewise be freed from the tremendous burden of multilateral debts. We will monitor closely the implementation of this historic agreement, and we look forward to working with you to make the cancellation of debts a reality for millions of people in the world's poorest countries. ###
07.30.2009	In a letter to the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), Democratic Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) called for the Zimbabwean government to end their campaign of demolishing the homes of local citizens throughout the African country. Congresswoman Waters, who last week forwarded the letter to USAID Administrator Andrew Natsios, expressed her concern and heart-felt opposition to the on-going demolition project. The project, whose violence and decimation of entire villages has targeted Zimbabwe's urban poor, has forced the impoverished citizens into deeper poverty. According to the Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe, the demolition project is an effort to crack down on illegal shacks across the country. The campaign began in May of this year. The government orchestrated effort, known to some as Zimbabwe's Demolition Drive, has not been limited to only the homes of the country's citizens. The destructive campaign has included markets, and most recently, an AIDS clinic for orphans. The demolition drive, in which two toddlers have reportedly been crushed to death, has left at least 70,000 households and 300,000 individuals homeless. In the same letter, Congresswoman Waters also applauded the efforts of the USAID's Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance for providing $1.1 million in humanitarian assistance to people who have been displaced by this campaign. Some of the displaced have included USAID workers. ###
07.30.2009	Democratic Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement on the G-8 leaders' pledge of 50 billion dollars to developing countries, including 25 billion dollars in aid to Africa: "While I am pleased that the leaders of the G-8 have committed to canceling 100% of the debt of 18 countries, I was hopeful that the leadership of the 8 richest countries in the world would commit to erasing the debt of all 50 countries identified in the JUBILEE Act, which I introduced last year. This would have made a significant impact in these countries' ability to provide nutrition, education, and health care to their citizens. "The pledge of 50 billion dollars in aid, including 25 billion dollars in aid to Africa, is indeed welcomed; yet it is simply not enough. While this pledge represents certain progress, some of us in Congress have been working to obtain an increased aid and debt cancellation package for Africa and poor countries for some time now. It appears that our legislative work has paved the way for this historic agreement between our world leaders to provide an expanded aid package during the G-8 summit. "I believe the United States can provide stronger leadership by quadrupling its aid to Africa. This will begin to compensate for the exploitation of the natural resources of the continent. This additional funding will enable Africa to realize its potential, and allow its citizens to more fully participate in the global society. I encourage the President to work with Congress in implementing a substantial increase in aid to Africa for fiscal year 2006 so that the people of Africa will reap the benefits of this planned assistance sooner rather than later. "We now need to develop and enforce a timeline for distribution of these pledged funds. We must ensure that the leaders follow through with their commitment to double aid to Africa. The promise of providing an additional 25 billion dollars to the African continent by 2010 is useless without these funds actually being distributed. "Finally, I wish to thank all of the heads of the G-8 countries for their leadership during this year's summit as this aid package was crafted. I am hopeful that the promises of this year's G-8 summit will be fulfilled as we look to eradicate poverty, malnutrition and preventable deaths within the global community." ###
07.30.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D CA) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, urging him to support immediate and complete cancellation of Liberia's debts and arrears during the Liberia Partners' Forum in Washington, DC, February 13-15, 2007. The letter was signed by the following members of the House of Representatives: Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee; Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee; Donald Payne (D-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health; Christopher Smith (R-NJ), Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health; Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade, and Technology; and Tom Lantos (D-CA), Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. The text of the letter follows: We appreciate your past support of debt cancellation for impoverished countries. We now urge you to support immediate and complete cancellation of Liberia's debts and arrears during the Liberia Partners' Forum in Washington, DC, February 13-15, 2007. The election of Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf made her the first woman head of state in Africa and marked the end of a 14-year civil war that killed 270,000 people and displaced almost one million. The country continues to suffer from grave poverty: 75 percent of its population lives on less than $1 per day while the unemployment rate is 85 percent. President Sirleaf's election was also a sign of hope for the people of Liberia who have suffered tremendously from both poverty and conflict. However, the new government requires the support and assistance of the international community to ensure national reconciliation and sustainable development for the Liberian people. Debt cancellation is essential to this process. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Liberia's total debt stands at $3.7 billion, $1.6 billion of which is owed to multilateral financial institutions, including $740 million to the IMF, $530 million to the World Bank, and $255 million to the African Development Bank. A total of $358 million is owed to the United States. Much of Liberia's debt burden was accumulated during the oppressive and undemocratic regimes of Samuel Doe and Charles Taylor, who did not use the loan funds for the benefit of the Liberian people. We are especially concerned that Liberia may be expected to pay off its arrears to multilateral financial institutions prior to obtaining new assistance in the form of grants, loans, or debt relief from the international community. This nation cannot afford additional delays and cannot reasonably be expected to drain such large amounts of money from its already fragile economy. The cancellation of Liberia's debts and arrears would enable the newly elected government to reduce poverty; improve health care, education and other essential government services; invest in critical infrastructure; and improve the lives of the Liberian people. The experience of partial debt relief and full debt cancellation in other impoverished countries has been successful. For example, the Ghanaian government has used the money saved through debt relief for basic infrastructure, including rural feeder roads, as well as increased expenditures on education and health care. In Zambia, 4,500 new teachers have been hired and fees for rural healthcare have been abolished. Therefore, we urge you to use your influence at the Liberia Partners' Forum to ensure that Liberia obtains complete cancellation of its debts and arrears without further delays. Your efforts to assist Liberia in its development are greatly appreciated, and we look forward to your response and to working with you to free Liberia from the tremendous burden of international debt. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) applauded the President's announcement of renewed efforts to confront Sudan and called on the President to use his bully pulpit to obtain the collaboration of the international community to take concrete action to stop the genocide in Darfur. She made the following statement: I applaud the President's announcement of renewed efforts to confront the government of Sudan and stop its campaign of genocide against the people of Darfur. The past efforts of the United States to confront the government of Sudan have been less than stellar. It has been almost three years since the White House declared that the government of Sudan was responsible for genocide in Darfur. Unfortunately, since that declaration, our actions have not matched our rhetoric. The ongoing genocide in Darfur already is believed to have caused the deaths of almost half-a-million people. More than 200,000 people have been killed by Sudanese government forces and armed militias since 2003, and another 200,000 people have died as a result of the deliberate destruction of homes, crops and water supplies and the resulting conditions of famine and disease. Over one-third of the population of Darfur has been displaced, and the United Nations estimated that almost 250,000 people have been displaced in the past six months alone, due primarily to government-sponsored militia attacks. Today, the President announced new economic sanctions against the government of Sudan. He also announced that the United States will seek passage of a United Nations Security Council Resolution applying new international sanctions against the government of Sudan, and the United States will continue to work for the deployment of a peacekeeping force by the United Nations and the African Union to protect the people of Darfur. The President's announcement is welcome. However, this time, the United States must back up our words with actions so tough that the government of Sudan will not be able to defy our call to stop the genocide. The United States must take the lead in the community of nations and convince other countries to take action to stop the genocide. President Bush must use his bully pulpit to obtain the collaboration of the international community. We must convince every country that trades with Sudan to implement effective economic sanctions. We must hold the government of Sudan accountable for killing civilians and other crimes against humanity. Finally, we must insist on the immediate deployment of an effective peacekeeping force to protect the people of Darfur. ###
07.30.2009	Today, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation of 2007. Joining the Congresswoman as original cosponsors of the Jubilee Act are Reps. Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Carolyn B. Maloney (D-NY), Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), Donald Payne(D-NJ), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Emanuel Cleaver (D-MO). Congresswoman Waters made the following statement: I am proud to introduce the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation of 2007. This bill will expand existing debt cancellation programs for the world's poorest countries and ensure that the benefits from debt cancellation will not be eroded by future lending to these impoverished nations. Existing debt cancellation programs have freed up resources to reduce poverty in some of the world's poorest countries. Cameroon is using its savings of $29.8 million from debt cancellation in 2006 for national poverty reduction priorities, including infrastructure, social sector and governance reforms. Uganda is using its savings of $57.9 million on improving energy infrastructure to ease acute electricity shortages, as well as primary education, malaria control, healthcare, and water infrastructure. Zambia is using its savings of $23.8 million to increase spending on agricultural projects and to eliminate fees for healthcare in rural areas. However, there are many needy and deserving poor countries that have yet to benefit from the cancellation of their debts. The Jubilee Act will make 67 of the world's poorest countries eligible for complete debt cancellation by the United States, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and other bilateral and multilateral creditors. In order to receive debt cancellation, the governments of these countries will be required to allocate the savings from debt cancellation towards spending on poverty-reduction programs. They will also have to engage interested parties within their societies, including a broad cross-section of civil society groups, in the spending allocation process; produce an annual report on this spending; and make it publicly available. Countries would be excluded from receiving debt cancellation under the Jubilee Act if they have an excessive level of military expenditures; provide support for acts of international terrorism; fail to cooperate on international narcotics control matters; or engage in a consistent pattern of human rights violations. Countries also would be excluded if they lack transparent and effective budget execution and public financial management systems to ensure that the savings from debt cancellation would be spent on reducing poverty. The Jubilee Act will establish a framework for responsible lending in order to preserve the benefits that debt cancellation has provided to poor countries and their people. The Jubilee Act requires the United States Secretary of the Treasury to take action to end the predatory practices of "vulture funds," private investment funds that buy up the debts of poor countries at reduced prices just before these countries receive debt cancellation and then sue these countries to recover the original value of the debts plus interest. Finally, the Jubilee Act will require the Secretary of the Treasury to develop and promote policies to prevent bilateral, multilateral and private creditors from eroding the benefits of debt cancellation through irresponsible or exploitive lending. The Jubilee Act will expand debt cancellation to all needy and deserving poor countries and preserve the benefits that debt cancellation has provided to impoverished people worldwide. I urge all of my colleagues to support this important legislation to reduce poverty through much needed debt cancellation reforms. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) expressed her disappointment regarding President Bush's decision to attend the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing, China. Yesterday, President Bush announced that he had accepted an invitation from Chinese President Hu Jintao to attend the Olympics. On August 4, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.Res. 628, a resolution to express the sense of Congress that the President should take action to boycott the Olympic Games in China, unless the Chinese government acknowledges and condemns the genocide taking place in the Darfur region of Sudan and ends its military and economic support for the government of Sudan. The Bush Administration never responded to the Congresswoman's initiative. The Congresswoman made the following statement: "I am deeply disappointed by President Bush's decision to attend the Olympics in China, despite China's continuing support for the genocidal government of Sudan. President Bush completely ignored my resolution urging a boycott of the China Olympics, and now he is proving once again that stopping the genocide in Darfur is not a priority for his Administration. "China is the world's largest supplier of military arms and equipment to Sudan, and Sudan is using these military supplies to commit genocide in Darfur. Almost a half million people have already been killed in Darfur, and yet China refuses to sever its ties with this genocidal regime. "President Bush should have informed the Chinese leader that he would not participate in the Olympics as long as China continues to bankroll the genocidal policies of Sudan. The spirit of the Olympics is not compatible with any actions directly or indirectly supporting genocide." ###
07.30.2009	Today, at a hearing in the House Committee on Financial Services entitled, "Transparency of Extractive Industries: High Stakes for Resource-Rich Countries, Citizens and International Business," Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) demanded that oil, gas, and mining companies report all of the revenues they pay to officials in resource-rich developing countries. The Congresswoman made the following statement: I would like to thank Chairman Barney Frank and Ranking Member Spencer Bachus for organizing this hearing on the impact of extractive industries on development in resource-rich developing countries. The Resource Curse Throughout my career, I have taken an active interest in foreign policy towards the countries and peoples of Africa. I have always noted with dismay that many African countries are desperately poor countries despite being rich in natural resources. The tendency for countries that are rich in oil, gas, and mineral resources to experience slower growth, higher levels of poverty, and more civil strife than countries that are not resource-rich has come to be known as the "resource curse." Liberia is a good example. Liberia is endowed with a wealth of diamonds. These diamonds should have been a blessing for Liberia's impoverished people. Instead, they fueled a civil war that lasted fourteen years, took the lives of 270,000 Liberians, and displaced almost one million more. The civil war finally ended two years ago with the election of Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, the first woman head of state in Africa. I am hopeful that the restoration of democracy will lead to a brighter future for the people of Liberia. However, 75 percent of Liberia's population still lives on less than $1 per day, and Liberia owes $3.7 billion to foreign countries and multilateral financial institutions. It is not hard to understand why the Liberian people might think they have been cursed with diamonds. Other resource-rich countries have also experienced poverty, authoritarian rule, and civil strife. The government of Sudan has exported billions of dollars worth of oil to China and purchased over $80 million in arms, ammunition, and aircraft equipment from China, while committing genocide against its own people. Angola is rich in oil, and Sierra Leone is rich in diamonds, and both are recovering from civil wars. South Africa is rich in gold, platinum, and coal, and it is recovering from decades of oppression under the brutal system of apartheid. Of course, Africa is not the only part of the world where countries rich in resources have experienced poverty, dictatorship, and conflict. When President Bush embarked upon the Iraq War to remove the dictatorial regime of Saddam Hussein, we were told that Iraq could finance its own development because it possessed a wealth of oil. Yet, over four years later, Iraq is in a state of civil war. Meanwhile, 3,837 Americans have died while the United States continues to spend billions trying unsuccessfully to rebuild the country. Causes of the Resource Curse There are a number of possible causes of the resource curse. Some analysts claim that resource-rich countries would benefit from their resources if only their leaders did not steal the profits. Others argue that the problem is much deeper. One theory is that resource extraction is capital-intensive. It requires a significant financial investment, but it does not create a comparable number of jobs. Consequently, the profits from resource development are not broadly shared. Agriculture and manufacturing, on the other hand, are labor-intensive. Therefore, the benefits of development in these sectors are shared by a much larger portion of the population. Another theory is that the exportation of resources increases the value of the local currency. This, in turn, crowds out other industries and makes agricultural and manufactured products more expensive and less competitive compared with foreign products. This results in declines in income and job losses in agriculture and manufacturing, leaving the resource extraction industry to dominate the economy. This phenomenon is known as the "Dutch disease." Yet another theory is that governments that benefit from resource revenues have no incentive to be responsive to their people. When governments are forced to tax the population to raise revenue, they are held accountable by the population for their use of public money. Even dictatorial governments risk revolt if they tax the population but do not provide public services in return. However, when a government can raise revenue without taxation, political leaders can enrich themselves without doing anything for the population. Responses to the Resource Curse One way to address the problem of the resource curse is through revenue transparency requirements. Oil, gas, and mining companies should be required to report all of the revenues they pay to resource-rich developing countries. Such reports should include all payments made to government agencies and national and local elites, including bribes and other payments to individual politicians. These reports should be made public, so they will be available to the local population. They should also be made public in the developed world, where the resources are purchased and consumed. Revenue transparency would allow the people of resource-rich developing countries to hold their governments accountable for the use of public revenues, just as other populations hold their governments accountable for the use of public tax funds. Unfortunately, requiring transparency is easier said than done. Countries experiencing the resource curse usually lack oversight capabilities. Meanwhile, oil, gas, and mining companies fall under the jurisdiction of several different regulatory systems, including the United States, the European Union, and China. However, if transparency requirements are effectively enforced, they could allow some countries to escape the resource curse. Conclusion I look forward to the testimony of the witnesses on the causes of the resource curse, as well as their suggestions for reforms to enable the people of resource-rich developing countries to benefit from their resources. ###
07.30.2009	Today, the House Committee on Financial Services held a hearing on H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act, which was introduced by Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35). The Jubilee Act is cosponsored by 86 Members of Congress and supported by the Jubilee USA Network, along with over 60 development, religious, environmental, and labor organizations. Companion legislation was introduced in the Senate by Senator Robert Casey (PA) and Senator Richard Lugar (IN). At the hearing, Congresswoman Waters made the following statement: I would like to begin by thanking Chairman Barney Frank and Ranking Member Spencer Bachus for organizing this hearing and for their support for the Jubilee Act. I also would like to thank the Jubilee Movement for all of their efforts over the past ten years to cancel the debts of the world's poorest countries. The Jubilee Movement is one of the most outstanding humanitarian efforts I have seen in my career. Over the past ten years, Jubilee has convinced Members of Congress, officials of the Clinton and Bush Administrations, and political leaders from around the world to cancel poor country debts. I am so proud of my affiliation with the Jubilee Movement because it brought the needs of the world's poorest people to the attention of the world's most powerful leaders. I introduced the Jubilee Act to cancel the debts of additional needy and deserving poor countries and to ensure that the benefits of debt cancellation will not be eroded. Because of the tireless efforts of Jubilee Movement activists, the Jubilee Act now has 86 cosponsors. Existing debt cancellation programs have freed up resources to reduce poverty in some of the world's poorest countries. Cameroon is using its savings of $29.8 million from debt cancellation in 2006 for national poverty reduction priorities, including infrastructure, social sector and governance reforms. Uganda is using its savings of $57.9 million on improving energy infrastructure to ease acute electricity shortages, as well as primary education, malaria control, healthcare, and water infrastructure. Zambia is using its savings of $23.8 million to increase spending on agricultural projects and to eliminate fees for healthcare in rural areas. However, there are many needy and deserving poor countries that have yet to benefit from the cancellation of their debts. The Jubilee Act will make up to 67 of the world's poorest countries eligible for complete debt cancellation by the United States, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and other bilateral and multilateral creditors. In order to receive debt cancellation, the governments of these countries will be required to allocate the savings from debt cancellation towards spending on poverty-reduction programs. They will also have to engage interested parties within their societies, including a broad cross-section of civil society groups, in the spending allocation process; produce an annual report on this spending; and make it publicly available. Countries would be excluded from receiving debt cancellation under the Jubilee Act if they have an excessive level of military expenditures; provide support for acts of international terrorism; fail to cooperate on international narcotics control matters; or engage in a consistent pattern of human rights violations. Countries also would be excluded if they lack transparent and effective budget execution and public financial management systems to ensure that the savings from debt cancellation would be spent on reducing poverty. The Jubilee Act will establish a framework for responsible lending in order to preserve the benefits that debt cancellation has provided to poor countries and their people. The Jubilee Act requires the Secretary of the Treasury to take action to end the predatory practices of "vulture funds," private investment funds that buy up the debts of poor countries at reduced prices before these countries receive debt cancellation and then sue these countries to recover the original value of the debts plus interest. Finally, the Jubilee Act will require the Secretary of the Treasury to develop and promote policies to prevent bilateral, multilateral and private creditors from eroding the benefits of debt cancellation through irresponsible or exploitive lending. I look forward to hearing the views of the witnesses on how the Jubilee Act can be effectively implemented and how it will benefit the world's poorest countries and their people. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D?CA) sent a letter to Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund (IMF), urging him to use his influence to ensure that Liberia receives debt relief as soon as possible. The letter was signed by 22 members of the House of Representatives, including Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee; Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee; and Donald Payne (D-NJ), Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health. The text of the letter follows: We welcome the announcement that the IMF has secured approximately $840 million in pledges from member countries in order to clear Liberia's arrears and finance debt relief for Liberia. We encourage you to use your influence to ensure that Liberia is able to benefit from debt relief as soon as possible. As you know, Liberia is one of the world's most impoverished countries, and it is in a difficult transition to a new democracy, following fourteen years of civil war. Per capita income is projected to be $136 per year. The unemployment rate hovers around 85%, and more than three quarters of the population lives on less than $1 per day. Life expectancy is less than 45 years, and the infant mortality rate is 157 infants per 1,000 live births. Liberia owes approximately $4.5 billion in external debts. Debt relief will free up resources to rebuild Liberia's infrastructure and meet the basic needs of its population. Debt relief will also provide a tangible sign of progress to the Liberian people, bolstering the democratically-elected government. Furthermore, the sooner Liberia receives debt relief, the sooner Liberia's government can devote its full attention to other critical issues such as poverty reduction, financial management, and good governance. We appreciate your efforts to clear Liberia's arrears, and we look forward to working with you to expedite debt relief for the people of Liberia. ###
07.30.2009	On Thursday, December 27, 2007, former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto was assassinated in a suicide attack that also killed at least 20 others during a political rally of the Pakistan Peoples Party in the town of Rawalpindi. The assassination of former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto was most shocking and needless to say, unfortunate. Bhutto's return was viewed as a new direction for Pakistan. Her unwavering support for democracy had been demonstrated time and time again as she placed herself at great risk from the growing threat of terrorism. Ms. Bhutto's return to Pakistan after being in self-imposed exile for nine years was negotiated by the Bush Administration where she was expected to be successful in the upcoming election and share power. Presently, no one is claiming responsibility for the attack. Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf and his security forces must accept responsibility for a lack of security that should have been provided knowing of an earlier attempt to assassinate the former Prime Minister upon her return to the country. While the Bush Administration has relied on President Musharraf to help wage the war against terrorism, the question remains why President Musharraf has been unable to confront more forcefully the terrorists and al-Qaida who operate on Pakistan's borders. Today, we mourn the loss of a charismatic leader who held her passion for the people of Pakistan very close to her heart. She will be remembered for her courageous and dauntless spirit of resilience. Benazir Bhutto's death will leave the country in a perilous position. As the world grieves her death, the U.S. Foreign Policy in Pakistan must be wise enough and strong enough to assist Pakistan from falling into complete chaos and utter deterioration. ###
07.30.2009	Today, during a hearing held by the Financial Services Committee, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) expressed her concern regarding President Bush's decision to issue a signing statement to accompany Public Law 110-174, the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act. The Congresswoman made the following statement: I strongly supported the passage of Public Law 110-174, the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act, and I am deeply concerned by the President's decision to issue a signing statement which may indicate that he does not intend to enforce fully this important law. The Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act authorizes states and local governments to adopt measures to divest public assets from companies involved in certain targeted business sectors in Sudan. It is a concrete proposal to increase sanctions on the government of Sudan and on corporations that continue to do business with this genocidal regime. As the bill proceeded through the legislative process, Congress made an effort to address concerns raised by the Administration. The Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act was then passed unanimously by both the House and the Senate in December and sent to the President's desk. The President issued a signing statement on December 31, 2007, when he signed the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act into law. According to this signing statement, "This Act purports to authorize State and local governments to divest from companies doing business in named sectors in Sudan and thus risks being interpreted as insulating from Federal oversight State and local divestment actions that could interfere with implementation of national foreign policy. However, as the Constitution vests the exclusive authority to conduct foreign relations with the Federal Government, the executive branch shall construe and enforce this legislation in a manner that does not conflict with that authority." This signing statement is one of over 150 signing statements issued by President Bush during the seven years that he has served as our nation's President. Taken together, these signing statements suggest that the President is determined to sign bills passed by Congress into law, and then implement the provisions of his choice while ignoring provisions with which he may disagree. The Constitution does not give the President the authority to sign bills into law and then pick and choose provisions to implement and provisions to ignore. Instead, when Congress passes a bill and sends it to the President's desk, the Constitution gives the President a choice: he can sign the bill into law or he can veto it and send it back to Congress with an explanation of his objections. The President's decision to issue a signing statement regarding the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act is especially troubling. This bill is a response to the genocide that is being carried out by the government of Sudan against the people of Darfur. Sudanese military forces and armed militias have bombed villages, raped and murdered civilians, and destroyed homes, crops and water supplies. An estimated 450,000 people have been killed in Darfur since 2003, and more than 2.5 million people have been displaced. Early in 2006, I visited the Darfur region with my good friend from California, Speaker Nancy Pelosi, and I was deeply disturbed by what I saw. As far as the eyes could see, there were crowds of displaced people who had been driven from their homes, living literally on the ground with nothing but little tarps to cover them. That was two years ago, and yet this genocide has been allowed to continue. Over three years ago, the Bush Administration declared that the government of Sudan was responsible for genocide in Darfur. Unfortunately, since that declaration, the Administration's actions have not matched its rhetoric. I call on the President to fulfill his constitutional responsibilities and enforce the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act, which he signed into law with his own hand. And I call on the President to take immediate and decisive action to stop this genocide! ###
07.30.2009	Yesterday, in Pretoria, South African President Thabo Mbeki presented Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) with the "Order of the Companions of OR Tambo Silver Award," one of the most prestigious awards granted by the South African government. Congresswoman Waters received this great honor because of her work on behalf of the people of South Africa throughout her career, especially her role in fighting against the former apartheid regime in South Africa. "I am deeply honored to receive South Africa's most prestigious award, the Companion of OR Tambo. I thank President Mbeki for recognizing my contribution to ending apartheid. This is a day I will never forget," said Waters during the presentation ceremony. Throughout the 1980s, Congresswoman Waters organized marches and rallies in Los Angeles to protest the racist system of apartheid in South Africa. She led sit-ins at the South African consular office in Los Angeles and put her own freedom on the line when she was arrested for protesting the apartheid regime in front of the South African Consulate in Washington, D.C. In 1986, as a member of the California Assembly, Rep. Waters called for the divestment of funds from corporations doing business with South Africa's apartheid regime and helped to make the call for divestment a national movement sweeping from state to state and city to city. She did this by authoring Assembly Bill 134, to divest a record $12 billion from public pension funds in California, thus fortifying California's opposition to the apartheid regime. In 1987, the Los Angeles Free South Africa Movement, which Rep. Waters chaired, welcomed President Oliver Reginald Tambo, the president of the anti-apartheid African National Congress (ANC) and the man for whom the OR Tambo Award was named, at a standing-room only gathering at Trinity Baptist Church. In 1990, when ANC leader Nelson Mandela made an 8-city tour of the U.S., Rep. Waters chaired the welcoming committee that greeted him and his wife Winnie Mandela with a motorcade to City Hall, a Hollywood star-studded reception, and a 6-hour concert and rally attended by 90,000 supporters. The following year, Rep. Waters traveled to South Africa for the first time to attend the ANC national conference in Durban, South Africa, the first ANC conference since the unbanning of the ANC and Nelson Mandela's release from prison. Three years later, following the dismantling of apartheid and South Africa's first democratic elections, she was a member of the official U.S. delegation to attend the inauguration of President Nelson Mandela in Pretoria. Congresswoman Waters has continued to be a friend to the people of South Africa, as well as oppressed people across Africa and throughout the world. For the past nine years, she has lead congressional efforts to cancel the debts of the world's poorest countries. In 1999, she worked with the Clinton Administration and her colleagues in Congress, to develop the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative to reduce the debts of poor countries in Africa and throughout the world, thereby enabling them to invest their resources in health care, education, poverty reduction and other programs that meet human needs. On July 13, 2000, Waters offered an amendment on the Floor of the House of Representatives to increase funding for this important initiative from $69 million – an inadequate amount supported by House Republican leadership – to $225 million. The passage of the Waters amendment led to the full funding of the HIPC Initiative by the Republican Congress. Congresswoman Waters has continued her efforts to expand and improve debt relief programs for poor countries through legislation and public advocacy. In 2005, she and other debt relief advocates convinced the leaders of the G-8 creditor nations to completely cancel the debts of over twenty of the world's poorest countries. Last year, she introduced H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act for Responsible Lending and Expanded Debt Cancellation. This bill would expand existing debt cancellation programs and ensure that the benefits from debt cancellation will not be eroded by future lending to these impoverished nations. This bill now has 98 cosponsors. The Congresswoman was also a leader of congressional efforts to restore democracy and protect human rights in Haiti and Liberia, and she is now working to expedite complete debt cancellation for these two needy and deserving countries. Congresswoman Waters also leads congressional efforts to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which infects over 18% of the adult population of South Africa. She is currently the Co-Chair of the CBC Task Force on HIV/AIDS. She has introduced legislation to allow people in developing countries like South Africa to have access to generic HIV/AIDS drugs at affordable prices, and she is working with her colleagues to increase funding for international HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to President Bush, urging him to renounce his decision to attend the Olympic Games in China and urge the Chinese government to respect human rights. Fifteen Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Last year, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.Res. 628, a resolution to express the sense of Congress that the President should take action to boycott the Olympic Games in China, unless the Chinese government acknowledges and condemns the genocide taking place in the Darfur region of Sudan. The Bush Administration never responded to this initiative. The text of today's letter follows: In light of the violent reaction of the Chinese government to recent protests in Tibet, as well as China's continuing violation of international human rights and its support for the genocidal government of Sudan, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to attend the Olympic Games in China this summer. World leaders representing several countries are now openly discussing the possibility of boycotting the opening ceremonies of the Olympic Games. French President Nicolas Sarkozy has announced that he may not attend the opening ceremonies because of the way that China has handled the situation in Tibet. Political leaders in Germany, Norway, and Australia have also discussed the possibility of boycotting the opening ceremonies, and leaders from Poland, Estonia, and the Czech Republic have already announced they will not attend. Chinese security forces responded to recent protests in Tibet by firing on protesters and detaining hundreds of people. Several Buddhist monasteries were reportedly surrounded by security forces, and their phone lines have been cut. China has restricted foreign journalists' access to Tibet, and Chinese authorities cannot be relied upon for accurate reports of the violence. Human Rights Watch has warned that the detainees are at serious risk of torture and mistreatment while in detention. China is also continuing to deny freedom of speech to its people and violate other international standards of human rights. Within the last month, Hu Jia, a human rights activist, was tried in a Beijing court for inciting subversion against the Chinese government by posting dissident opinions on an Internet website. Chinese journalist Shi Tao remains imprisoned for emails he sent to a pro-democracy website in the United States in 2004. Amnesty International reported last year that thousands of members of underground Catholic and Protestant churches have been detained, and many were tortured while in detention. On September 22, 2007, Gao Zhisheng, a human rights lawyer, was secretly taken from his home after he wrote a letter to the United States Congress describing China's elimination of over 3,000 Falun Gong practitioners over the past eight years. Meanwhile, the Chinese government is continuing its long-standing ties with the genocidal government of Sudan. China reportedly purchases as much as 70 percent of Sudan's oil and has at least $3 billion invested in the Sudanese energy sector. China has exported at least $24 million in arms and ammunition to Sudan, as well as nearly $57 million in parts and aircraft equipment, and $2 million in helicopter and airplane parts. Sudan's policies have already killed almost a half-million people in Darfur, and yet China refuses to sever its ties with this genocidal regime. It would be clearly inappropriate for you to attend the Olympic Games in China, given the increasingly repressive nature of that country's government. The Olympic Games are the most honorable, venerated, and prestigious international sporting events in the world. Your attendance at these Games will only serve to enhance China's honor and prestige as the host country of the Olympics. We, therefore, recommend that you renounce your decision to attend the Olympics in China and urge the Chinese government to change its policies and begin to respect international standards of human rights. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Edolphus Towns Marcy Kaptur Lynn Woolsey Michael E. Capuano Jerrold Nadler James McGovern Donald Payne John Lewis Diane Watson Dana Rohrabacher Barney Frank Sheila Jackson Lee John W. Olver Mel Watt ###
07.30.2009	Today, the Financial Services Committee of the House of Representatives passed Congresswoman Maxine Waters' debt relief bill, H.R. 2634, Jubilee Act, by a voice vote. "The Jubilee Act will free up resources for poverty reduction in some of the poorest countries in the world. I am proud that my colleagues on the Financial Services Committee had the foresight to support debt cancellation to help people in poverty. I look forward to the passage of the Jubilee Act by the full House of Representatives," said Congresswoman Waters. The Jubilee Act expands debt cancellation for impoverished countries, provided that they commit to use the savings to reduce poverty. The bill passed the Financial Services Committee with strong support from both Chairman Barney Frank and Ranking Member Spencer Bachus, as well as over 100 cosponsors. "Debt cancellation allows poor countries to use their own money to address the needs of their people. It is simple, effective, and the right thing to do," said the Congresswoman. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader on issues of poor country debt relief for the past decade. In 1999, she worked with her colleagues and the Clinton Administration to authorize the debt relief program known as the "HIPC Initiative." The following year, she offered an amendment on the House Floor to the Fiscal Year 2001 Foreign Operations Appropriations bill, which increased funding for debt relief from $69 million to $225 million. The amendment passed the House, thereby ensuring full funding for the program. "Debt cancellation saved Uganda over $57 million in 2006. Uganda used the savings to invest in primary education, malaria control, healthcare, and infrastructure. The Jubilee Act will allow more impoverished countries to benefit from the cancellation of their debts," said the Congresswoman. ###
07.30.2009	Today on Capital Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) reiterated her call for a boycott of the Olympic Games in China, because of China's continuing human rights violations. "China has a long history of human rights violations and never should have been allowed to host the Olympics," said Congresswoman Waters. "We cannot fight injustice in the United States and ignore injustice in other parts of the world, especially China." The Congresswoman made her statement at a press conference on Capitol Hill entitled "Global Human Rights Torch Relay." The event was scheduled to coincide with the arrival of the Olympic Torch in San Francisco, during its journey to the Olympic Games in China. The event was organized by Falun Gong practitioners and other human rights activists concerned about the victims of human rights violations in China. "I congratulate all of you for shining a bright light on China's deplorable record," the Congresswoman told the organizers. Last week, on April 1, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to President Bush, urging him to renounce his decision to attend the Olympic Games. The letter said, "In light of the violent reaction of the Chinese government to recent protests in Tibet, as well as China's continuing violation of international human rights and its support for the genocidal government of Sudan, we strongly urge you to reconsider your decision to attend the Olympic Games in China this summer." Fifteen Members of Congress signed the Congresswoman's letter. Previously, in August of 2007, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.Res. 628, a resolution to express the sense of Congress that the President should take action to boycott the Olympic Games in China, unless the Chinese government acknowledges and condemns the genocide taking place in the Darfur region of Sudan. The Bush Administration never responded to this initiative. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to President Hu Jintao, the President of the People's Republic of China, urging him to immediately recall the shipment of weapons aboard the An Yue Jiang intended for Zimbabwe and cease all arms shipments to Zimbabwe. The text of the letter follows: I write to urge you to immediately recall the shipment of weapons aboard the An Yue Jiang intended for Zimbabwe and cease all arms shipments to Zimbabwe. Zimbabwe is in a state of crisis. The government of Zimbabwe has refused to release the results of the country's March 29 elections for more than three weeks. The opposition Movement for Democratic Change claims to have won the elections and is accusing the government of trying to steal the elections. The Movement for Democratic Change has alleged that pro-government militias have killed ten of its members and injured hundreds since the elections, a claim the government denies. Human rights violations in Zimbabwe have escalated since the elections. Human Rights Watch reported that members of Zimbabwe's armed forces have established torture camps targeting members of the opposition and civilians who did not support the government in the elections. Catholic, Anglican, and Evangelical church leaders reported that organized violence, including abductions and torture, has been unleashed against individuals, families, and communities accused of voting for the opposition. They warned that the violence has the potential to become a full-scale genocide. Given the volatile nature of the situation, any arms provided to government forces or any other parties in Zimbabwe could exacerbate the crisis. The An Yue Jiang is reportedly carrying 77 tons of lethal weapons, including 3 million rounds of AK-47 ammunition, 1,500 rocket-propelled grenades, and more than 3,000 mortar rounds and mortar tubes. The cargo is valued at $1.245 million. An arms shipment this large could easily cause the deaths of thousands of innocent civilians. Members of Congress already are deeply concerned about the military supplies your government exports to the genocidal government of Sudan, including at least $24 million in arms and ammunition, nearly $57 million in parts and aircraft equipment, and $2 million in helicopter and airplane parts. China's attempt to deliver arms to Zimbabwe amplifies our concern that China's polices are contributing to instability, chaos, and loss of life in these African countries. I, therefore, urge you to immediately recall the An Yue Jiang to China and cease all arms shipments to Zimbabwe. It is not in your country's interests to be held responsible for any possible escalation of violence that could result from such shipments. ###
07.30.2009	June 20 is World Refugee Day, when we turn our attention to the men, women and children who have fled from their homes because of war, persecution and oppression. Roughly 35 million people worldwide have been displaced from their homes, including 14 million who are living as refugees outside their country. The size of this humanitarian crisis is difficult to grasp as a bare statistic. A little more than a month ago I had the honor of hosting a photography exhibit on Capitol Hill by a photographer who had captured the images and stories of Iraqi refugees during her time spent in Syria and Jordan. Standing in front of one of her photographs — this one of a young Iraqi refugee child who had been severely burned during an attack on her home — the photographer stated "a million refugees is a statistic … but a single refugee is a tragedy." The point that the photographer was making, and the point of bringing the exhibit to Capitol Hill, was that we cannot forget that refugees are real people: mothers, fathers, children, brothers and sisters — millions of real people living as refugees across the globe. The worst humanitarian crisis in the world currently is taking place in Sudan. Genocide is being committed right now in the Darfur region of Sudan. More than 400,000 Sudanese have been murdered or starved by Sudanese government forces and their allies since 2003. An estimated 2.5 million people have been displaced to camps inside the country, and another 240,000 have fled into neighboring Chad as refugees. As the conflict has spilled over the border into Chad and the Central African Republic, yet another 200,000 people have been displaced. I believe that we — Americans and indeed the people of all nations — have a moral obligation to prevent such suffering and assist those in desperate circumstances. If we are truly serious about opposing genocide in Darfur, then we must take decisive action to stop it. We must stop supporting the genocidal government of Sudan, and we must enact and enforce comprehensive sanctions against them without exceptions. We must demand that China stop bankrolling the genocide, and we must demand that United Nations forces do everything necessary to protect civilians and save the people of Darfur. That's the only way to begin to solve the problem of refugees and displaced people in this part of the world. The U.S. involvement in the Iraq war makes the Iraqi refugee crisis of particular concern of mine. The latest estimates suggest that there are roughly 5 million Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons — about 20 percent of the entire population of Iraq. Families who were once well off in Iraq have fled to neighboring countries where they have depleted their savings and now live in squalor with few if any legal protections. They have little access to healthcare, clean water, food, and other basic services. Children are being pulled from school to be put to work, men turn to the black market, and women are resorting to prostitution to support their families. Abdul-Khaliq Zankana, head of the Iraqi parliament's Displacement and Migration Committee, said, "The government's obvious inability to solve the problem of IDPs and refugees could lead to serious regional and international problems, as there is no clear and comprehensive policy to get them back into their homes." And earlier this month, our own Coordinator for Iraqi Refugees at the U.S. Embassy in Iraq, Ambassador James Foley, echoed this sentiment, declaring, "[We] need to encourage the Government of Iraq to commit the resources, to elaborate the policies, and to create the framework under which refugees will want to go home and will be able to go home and reintegrate successfully in their country. And there is, frankly, significant work that needs to be done." That is why I have introduced The Recovery and Stability of Iraq Act, H.R. 5488. This legislation would address the growing crisis confronting the Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons by creating an Iraqi Displacement Coordinator in the executive office of the president. The high-level coordinator would be tasked with supporting Iraq and other regional actors in the creation of a long-term, comprehensive, and durable strategy to address the displacement crisis. The coordinator will work to harmonize international efforts to address the crisis, and encourage affected governments to recognize the legal rights of the refugees. The continued suffering of the 35 million refugees and displaced persons worldwide is an affront to our American values. On this World Refugee Day, let us rededicate ourselves in support of those who need our help the most. Waters serves on the House Financial Services and Judiciary committees. ###
07.30.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) expressed concern for poor nations suffering from both the global food crisis and burdensome international debt and called for the World Bank to enact policies that are fairer and more effective in addressing the problems of such countries. She spoke today during a hearing of the House Financial Services Committee, on which she serves, regarding U.S. contributions to the World Bank's International Development Association (IDA) and the African Development Bank's African Development Fund (AfDF). "Clearly, the World Bank needs to change its approach to agricultural development," Congresswoman Waters said. The World Bank has imposed significant requirements on the agricultural sector of developing countries as a condition for their receiving loans. However, these requirements – such as eliminating government subsidies for seeds and fertilizer and assistance with marketing, food storage and distribution as well as lowering tariffs on agricultural imports – have dramatically reduced local farm production and made people more dependent on foreign sources of food. Congresswoman Waters cited numerous examples in Africa and Latin America of the decline of agriculture that has resulted and the subsequent vulnerability of populations to rising food prices. In contrast, she noted that Malawi's agricultural output has increased enormously since the government decided to ignore the World Bank's advice and reinstate fertilizer subsidies. Congresswoman Waters, a longtime leader of efforts to reduce the financial burden on poor countries, also reiterated the importance of helping them climb out from under the mountain of debt owed to multilateral financial institutions like the World Bank. She specifically recommended an immediate suspension of debt payments from ten heavily indebted poor countries to the World Bank and other multilateral lenders. These ten countries are already in line to receive debt cancellation, but they are currently required to continue making debt payments to the World Bank while implementing the World Bank's conditions for debt cancellation. Among the countries in this predicament are Haiti and Liberia, two of the most impoverished countries in the world. "Given the severity of the global food crisis, it is both unjust and unwise to require countries that are doing their best to implement World Bank conditions to continue making debt payments to the World Bank while their people go hungry," she said. Congresswoman Waters introduced the Jubilee Act (H.R. 2634), legislation to expand debt cancellation for the world's poorest countries, and the House of Representatives passed it earlier this year. "The expansion of debt cancellation programs is one important way to address the global food crisis. Money that poor countries must spend on debt payments is money they cannot spend purchasing food or developing agricultural capacity," she said. ###
07.30.2009	The House Financial Services Committee today passed H.R. 6306, a bill to reauthorize funds for certain multilateral development banks (including the World Bank) that provide grants, loans and assistance to developing countries. The legislation included three amendments offered by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to assist impoverished nations, particularly at a time when their populations are experiencing severe hardship because of the global food crisis. The first amendment requires the Secretary of the Treasury to urge the multilateral development banks to increase significantly their emphasis on food security and agricultural development in developing countries. The second amendment requires the Secretary of the Treasury to urge the multilateral development banks to allow Haiti to suspend immediately debt service payments or provide immediate debt cancellation to Haiti. The third amendment authorizes up to $5 million to assist Liberia in buying back its commercial debt. This would free Liberia from the burden of repaying debts owed to private creditors. Congresswoman Waters said, "We are fortunate to live in a prosperous and powerful country. The United States has the capacity – and the moral obligation – to use our wealth and influence to alleviate human suffering. I am proud that the Financial Services Committee passed my amendments with bipartisan support. These measures will enable the governments of developing countries to dedicate their limited resources to meeting the fundamental needs of their people." Congresswoman Waters has been a leader in Congress in efforts to assist Haiti, the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, with democratization and economic development. She has also championed international debt cancellation for poor nations through legislation such as the Jubilee Act. ###
07.30.2009	Today, at an event on Capitol Hill to announce the establishment of the congressional World Bank Caucus, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) called on the World Bank to provide expedited debt relief to Haiti and Liberia. The World Bank Caucus was launched by World Bank President Robert Zoellick and a bipartisan group of Members of Congress to promote dialogue between Congress and the World Bank. The Congresswoman made the following statement: I am proud to join World Bank President Robert Zoellick for the official launch of the World Bank Caucus. I commend my colleagues, Congresswoman Betty McCollum and Congressman Kevin Brady, for organizing this event. The World Bank is a critical source of financing for poverty alleviation and development projects worldwide. As a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee, I have been both a strong supporter of World Bank funding and a critic of World Bank policies throughout my congressional career. Back in 1999, I urged the World Bank, along with other multilateral financial institutions and the Clinton Administration, to provide debt relief to the world's poorest countries. Since then, I have been closely monitoring the progress of the World Bank's debt relief initiatives, specifically the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC) and the Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). More than 20 of the world's poorest countries have already had their debts canceled as a result of these programs. The World Bank should be truly proud of this achievement. But there is still more that needs to be done. Other impoverished countries are working hard to comply with the World Bank's debt relief conditions but are still waiting to have their debts canceled. Haiti and Liberia are two such countries. Both have democratically-elected governments. Both are recovering from periods of political instability and conflict. Both have been profoundly impacted by rising food prices, and both of these countries desperately need debt cancellation. I plan to work with the World Bank and my colleagues in the World Bank Caucus to expedite debt cancellation for Haiti and Liberia and ensure that all of the world's poorest countries are freed from onerous debts. I also plan to work with the World Bank to develop new initiatives to respond to rising food prices and alleviate poverty throughout the world. ###
07.30.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today introduced the Stop Very Unscrupulous Loan Transfers from Underprivileged countries to Rich, Exploitive Funds or "Stop VULTURE Funds" Act (H.R. 6796), legislation designed to protect impoverished countries from lawsuits by so-called vulture funds. Vulture funds are private investment funds that buy up the debts of poor countries at reduced prices, usually for pennies on the dollar. They then sue these countries to recover the original value of the debts plus interest. Several poor countries that have received debt cancellation from the United States, other participating donor countries, and multilateral financial institutions have subsequently been sued by vulture funds. Congresswoman Waters said, "The Stop VULTURE Funds Act would protect the world's poorest countries from the predatory practices of vulture funds and allow these countries to use their limited resources to meet the needs of their people." The Stop VULTURE Funds Act would make it illegal for vulture funds to use U.S. courts for the purpose of suing poor countries to obtain usurious payments. Any lawsuit demanding more than the amount the investment fund paid to buy the debt plus 6% interest per year would be considered usurious. Any fund pursuing a lawsuit against a protected poor country would be required to provide disclosures to the court in order to prove the fund is complying with the law. Countries that commit gross violations of human rights, engage in excessive military spending, support terrorism, or fail to cooperate with the United States on narcotics control matters would not be protected under this bill. Investment funds would still be allowed to buy and sell poor country debts on the open market and negotiate with poor countries to obtain payment. Congresswoman Waters has led congressional efforts to cancel the debts of the world's poorest countries. Over the past ten years, more than twenty impoverished countries have received debt cancellation. Last year, she introduced H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act, which makes up to 25 additional low-income countries eligible for debt cancellation, provided that these countries use the savings for poverty reduction programs. The Jubilee Act was passed by the House of Representatives on April 16th of this year. Congresswoman Waters said, "I am proud of my work in Congress to cancel poor country debts. We cannot allow vulture funds to erode the progress that has enabled many of the world's most impoverished nations to reduce poverty." ###
07.30.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today expressed her sorrow over the death of South African singer Miriam Makeba, who died of a heart attack this week. She was 76 years old. Funeral services will be held tomorrow in South Africa. "I was deeply saddened to learn of the death of my dear friend, Miriam Makeba. Miriam was beloved by audiences around the world. Her music and her passionate commitment to social justice will be celebrated for years to come," said Congresswoman Waters. Miriam Makeba performed for audiences in the United States, Europe and Africa for over forty years. Her music combined the styles of jazz and folk music with traditional South African songs. Because of her opposition to apartheid in South Africa, she was exiled from her homeland for over thirty years. The apartheid regime would not even let her return to attend her mother's funeral in 1960. However, she continued to speak out in Africa and the West against apartheid until it was abolished. She was finally allowed to return to South Africa after the release from prison of anti-apartheid leader Nelson Mandela in 1990. "Miriam was an outspoken advocate of peace, justice and humanity throughout her career, and her passionate commitment was reflected in her music. Her songs gave hope and inspiration to the people of South Africa during the darkest days of apartheid, and she continued to speak and sing for social justice until the day she died," said the Congresswoman. Miriam Makeba collapsed on stage in Italy and died of a heart attack on Sunday, November 10, 2008. She was performing at a concert in memory of six immigrants from Ghana who were shot dead in Italy last September. "I am comforted by the fact that Miriam died doing what she loved – advocating peace and justice through her music," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to His Excellency Jakaya Kikwete, the Chairperson of the African Union and President of Tanzania, urging the African Union to denounce the failed government of Zimbabwe's President Robert Mugabe and encourage him to step down. Copies were sent to United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of State-nominee Hillary Clinton, and USAID Administrator Henrietta Fore. The text of the letter follows: I appreciate the important role the African Union plays in the political, economic and social development of the African continent, and I write to you today to express my grave concerns about the situation in Zimbabwe and the countries surrounding it. Throughout my career, I have been a friend of Africa, beginning with my time in the California State Assembly when I led California's divestment from corporations doing business with South Africa's apartheid regime. In 1990, I chaired the welcoming committee that greeted Nelson Mandela for his first visit to the United States. For the past ten years, I have led efforts in the United States Congress to cancel the debts of heavily indebted poor countries. In 1999, I worked with the Clinton Administration to develop the Enhanced Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. Since then, I have worked tirelessly to expand the initiative to provide complete debt cancellation to participating countries and allow additional African countries to participate. I have also sponsored initiatives in Congress to provide humanitarian assistance to African countries affected by natural disasters, support newly-elected governments with development assistance, and address the global HIV/AIDS pandemic. I have great respect for the sovereignty of all nations. However, there comes a time when a nation presents such a great risk to other nations that it becomes necessary for the international community to respond. Zimbabwe presents such a risk to its neighbors. The cholera epidemic, which is now raging in Zimbabwe, has begun to spread to Zimbabwe's neighbors. Meanwhile, the collapse of Zimbabwe's infrastructure, hyperinflation, hunger, disease and violations of human rights are creating a flood of refugees into neighboring countries that is too large for these countries to absorb. Therefore, I urge the African Union to denounce the failed government of President Robert Mugabe and encourage President Mugabe to step down. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that the cholera epidemic already has infected 16,141 people and caused 775 deaths since August. Last week, the WHO requested $6 million in donor support for its cholera response plan, and the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) appealed for $17.5 million for its cholera treatment efforts. Meanwhile, the epidemic has spread into South Africa, where refugees from Zimbabwe are seeking food and medical treatment, which they cannot find at home. The cholera epidemic is a direct result of the disintegration of basic public services in Zimbabwe. Water cutoffs are frequent and prolonged in Harare, Zimbabwe's capital, while raw sewage and uncollected garbage accumulate in the city's streets. The city's two largest hospitals have been virtually shut down for weeks because the doctors and nurses stopped coming to work after the country's hyperinflation rendered their salaries worthless. Likewise, most of the nation's schools have shut down because teachers' salaries do not even cover the cost of bus fare to work. Starvation has also become common in Zimbabwe. Many villages are entirely without food as a result of crop failure and economic collapse. Millions of people are reportedly surviving on nothing but wild fruit, and many have died. Last summer, President Mugabe suspended humanitarian aid in rural areas from June through August while accusing aid agencies of supporting his political opposition. Human rights organizations have reported that the government's Grain Marketing Board has routinely denied food to opposition supporters. Human rights violations in Zimbabwe have escalated. Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and the Open Society Institute are demanding an end to abductions of human rights activists after several people were abducted within one week. On December 3rd, Jestina Mukoko, the director of the Zimbabwe Peace Project, a national human rights organization, was abducted from her home by a group of armed men who identified themselves as police. Two employees of the Zimbabwe Peace Project were abducted the following week. On December 8th, Gandhi Mudzingwa, a former personal assistant to Morgan Tsvangirai, the leader of the Movement for Democratic Change, was abducted by a group of unidentified men. This unconscionable tragedy should not be allowed to continue. I urge the African Union to call on President Robert Mugabe to resign immediately. Moreover, I urge the African Union to take all necessary and appropriate action to ensure that humanitarian aid agencies are able to operate freely in Zimbabwe and reach all who are in need. Once democracy has been restored, I look forward to working with the African Union, my colleagues in Congress, and the international community to provide economic assistance to restore Zimbabwe's infrastructure and meet the needs of the impoverished people of Zimbabwe. ###
07.30.2009	To show solidarity with the people of Darfur in Sudan and bring attention to the ongoing genocide there, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) announced her intention to participate in the Darfur Fast for Life. Speaking today at a press conference organized by the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), Congresswoman Waters and other CBC members were joined by actress Mia Farrow who initiated the Fast for Life on April 27 with a hunger strike that lasted for 12 days. Ms. Farrow had intended to fast for 21 days but was forced to end her hunger strike for health reasons earlier than intended following the advice of doctors. Congresswoman Waters spoke to Ms. Farrow by phone and encouraged her to end the hunger strike for the sake of her health. CBC members and other celebrities have agreed to take turns to extend the fast and raise awareness of the humanitarian crisis in Darfur. Congresswoman Waters said, "The Darfur Fast for Life is an opportunity to take a stand against genocide and demand action from the world community to protect innocent civilians, to guarantee respect for human rights, and to create a lasting peace in Sudan. Mia Farrow has demonstrated true dedication to this cause by making a personal sacrifice, and I will be honored to join her and do my part." Congresswoman Waters condemned Sudanese President Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir and the janjaweed militia groups responsible for killing, raping and persecuting people in Darfur and called on the international community to hold them accountable. The International Criminal Court (ICC) issued an arrest warrant for Bashir for war crimes and crimes against humanity on March 4th. That very same day, the Government of Sudan expelled 13 non-governmental organizations from Darfur, accusing them of cooperating with the ICC investigation. These non-governmental organizations include many of the most respected humanitarian organizations in the world. Among them are Oxfam, Doctors without Borders, the International Rescue Committee, and Mercy Corps. "The expulsion of these organizations will leave millions of civilians without access to food, clean water, and medical assistance. This outrageous action is just another example of the cruelty of the Government of Sudan towards its own people, and it proves that the ICC's decision to issue an arrest warrant for Bashir was entirely justified," said Congresswoman Waters. In 2006, Congresswoman Waters visited the Darfur region with Speaker Nancy Pelosi. "I was deeply disturbed by the suffering I saw," she recalled. "As far as the eye could see, there were crowds of displaced people who had been driven from their homes, living literally on the ground with nothing but little tarps to cover them. That was three years ago, and yet this crisis has continued. I am encouraged however by the efforts of faith-based groups, students, grassroots activists and others all over the world taking steps to help the people of Darfur, raise awareness of their plight and apply pressure to stop the genocide." ###
07.30.2009	Update: The letter to House Appropriations Committee leaders was signed by a total of 41 Members of Congress: Maxine Waters Yvette D. Clarke Barbara Lee Raúl M. Grijalva Donald M. Payne Michael Honda Chaka Fattah Corrine Brown Donna Christensen Luis Gutierrez Maurice Hinchey Gwen Moore Marcia L. Fudge Sheila Jackson-Lee Danny K. Davis André Carson Dennis Kucinich John Conyers John Lewis Donna F. Edwards Tammy Baldwin Bob Filner Lynn Woolsey Phil Hare Robert Brady Diane E. Watson Laura Richardson Janice D. Schakowsky Alan Grayson Sam Farr James McGovern Charles Rangel Melvin L. Watt Carolyn Maloney Robert C. Scott Charles Gonzalez Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. Alcee L. Hastings Keith Ellison Al Green Kendrick Meek Washington, DC - Concerned that the International Monetary Fund (IMF)is not sufficiently transparent or accountable, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) is spearheading an effort to have Congress adopt legislation that would ensure IMF funds – including U.S. contributions – are used appropriately and provide help for low-income countries suffering disproportionately as a result of the global financial crisis. Congresswoman Waters has drafted and circulated a letter to the House leaders who will be involved in negotiations with the Senate over provisions related to IMF funding that might be included in the Fiscal Year 2009 supplemental appropriations bill. The letter, which has been signed by 33 Representatives to date, discusses several areas of concern about the IMF and its response to the global financial crisis and includes proposals for improving the IMF's activities. The text of the letter follows: May 21, 2009 Dear Chairman Obey and Chairwoman Lowey: We are writing to express our concern that the Senate has attached an inadequate International Monetary Fund (IMF) package to the FY 2009 supplemental appropriations bill, which is intended to proceed to conference this week. We recognize the importance of a swift, internationally coordinated response to the global financial crisis to ensure that developing countries have the resources they need to cope with the crisis. However, Senate action to provide the IMF with $100 billion in funding and new authorities, including IMF gold sales, as requested by the Obama Administration, has precluded the possibility of House legislation on the IMF package. In conference, we urge you to ensure that the IMF is not given a "blank check." Specifically, the augmentation of IMF resources and prerogatives should be conditioned on a strong commitment by U.S. leadership to ensure that the institution becomes more transparent and accountable to all member countries, including the poorest. We urge inclusion in the bill of provisions related to all of the following four concerns: Use the Stimulus Money for Stimulus, not Contraction. While the IMF pronounces its commitment to flexible policy approaches for countries in recession or depression, its track record since the onset of the economic crisis in September 2008 demonstrates routine imposition of contractionary monetary and fiscal policies which are exacerbating recessions in recipient countries. In conference, we urge inclusion of language to ensure that the funds allocated by Congress for global stimulus are used for stimulatory, and not contractionary, purposes. Resources for Low-Income Countries. Low-income countries are suffering disproportionately as a result of a global financial crisis, which was not of their making. In conference, we urge inclusion of language requiring the U.S. Executive Director to the IMF to ensure that some of the revenue from the planned gold sales and/or other sources of income will be used to provide at least $5 billion in non-debt-creating assistance to the world's poorest countries – either via debt relief or grants. Democratic Process. Currently, the IMF negotiates and obtains approval for loans from the executive branch of recipient countries, leaving little opportunity for democratic debate in recipient countries over the content and terms of IMF loans. In conference, we urge inclusion of bill language requiring the U.S. Executive Director to the IMF to ensure parliamentary approval of all IMF loans. This would help to ensure greater democratic participation and transparency, as well as a safeguard against corruption. Transparency. Some of the IMF's most important documents are considered classified, strictly confidential, or secret. Among the secret documents are: 1) "side letters" containing policy conditions that the IMF requires a recipient government to implement as a condition of loan disbursements; and 2) transcripts of meetings of the Board of Executive Directors. Draft IMF documents are not disclosed prior to approval by the Board of Executive Directors which precludes input from country constituencies. In conference, we urge inclusion of language to ensure greater transparency and public availability of documents within a reasonable time period. In this time of global economic crisis, it is critical to ensure a robust and effective global response. But it is also critical for Congress to ensure that the resources and authorities that are provided to the IMF to respond to the crisis are used in an effective manner that is consistent with congressional intent. ###
07.30.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) today introduced the Stop Very Unscrupulous Loan Transfers from Underprivileged countries to Rich, Exploitive Funds or "Stop VULTURE Funds" Act (H.R. 2932), legislation designed to protect impoverished countries from lawsuits by so-called vulture funds. Congresswoman Waters said, "Over the past year, we have seen how the actions of a small number of unscrupulous and exploitative investors can hurt innocent people and cause economic chaos. We cannot allow the world's poorest countries to be exploited by these bad actors." Vulture funds are private investment funds that buy up the debts of poor countries at reduced prices, usually for pennies on the dollar. They then sue these countries to recover the original value of the debts plus interest. Several poor countries that have received debt cancellation from the United States, other participating donor countries, and multilateral financial institutions have subsequently been sued by vulture funds. Congresswoman Waters said, "The Stop VULTURE Funds Act would protect impoverished countries from the predatory practices of vulture funds and allow these countries to use their limited resources to meet the needs of their people." The Stop VULTURE Funds Act would make it illegal for vulture funds to use U.S. courts for the purpose of suing poor countries to obtain usurious payments. Any lawsuit demanding more than the amount the investment fund paid to buy the debt plus 6% interest per year would be considered usurious. Any fund pursuing a lawsuit against a protected poor country would be required to provide disclosures to the court in order to prove the fund is complying with the law. Countries that commit gross violations of human rights, engage in excessive military spending, support terrorism, or fail to cooperate with the United States on narcotics control matters would not be protected under this bill. Investment funds would still be allowed to buy and sell poor country debts on the open market and negotiate with poor countries to obtain payment. Congresswoman Waters has led congressional efforts to cancel the debts of the world's poorest countries. Over the past ten years, more than twenty impoverished countries have received debt cancellation. During the 110th Congress, she introduced H.R. 2634, the Jubilee Act, which makes up to 25 additional low-income countries eligible for debt cancellation, provided that these countries use the savings for poverty reduction programs. The Jubilee Act was passed by the House of Representatives on April 16th of last year, although the Senate did not have time to consider the bill. Congresswoman Waters said, "I am proud of my work in Congress to cancel poor countries' debts. We cannot allow vulture funds to erode the progress that has enabled many of the world's most impoverished nations to reduce poverty." ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement regarding the tenure of Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld: "The United States military needs fresh leadership. The Secretary of Defense has failed to provide effective leadership in the Iraq war and our soldiers are paying a dear price. Secretary Rumsfeld must resign. The fact that six US Generals, including three who have served in Iraq under Secretary Rumsfeld, are calling for Rumsfeld's resignation should serve as a wake-up call for the President and those serving in the U.S. Congress. In order to rebuild international relationships damaged by this war, and to improve the prospects of concluding this war, we need new leadership at the Department of Defense. The war has gone on far too long and cost far too much – in US lives, in US dollars, in US prestige. Secretary Rumsfeld must not continue to manage this war. Marine Gen. Anthony Zinni, Maj. Gen. Charles Swannack Jr., Maj. Gen. John Batiste, Army Maj. Gen. Paul Eaton, and Marine Lt. Gen. Gregory Newbold should be commended for speaking out. The comments of the Generals provide first-hand knowledge to what many of us have already realized – the Secretary has dangerously mismanaged the planning and execution of the Iraqi war. I think it is ironic that the White House questions the motives of these distinguished military officers, even suggesting that it is inappropriate for retired military officials to speak out against White House policy, all the while putting its own retired military officials on the talk shows. This is a continuation of the misguided White House policy of stifling debate and questioning the integrity and patriotism of anyone who disagrees with its point of view. At various points in his tenure as head of Defense, Secretary Rumsfeld has served with arrogance and incompetence. His leadership has failed the American military and the American people. He has been wrong on many aspects of this war: pre-war intelligence/Iraq's weapons of mass destruction; the number of troops needed for a post-Saddam Iraq; the cost of the war; disbandment of the Iraqi army, and, in slow response to the equipment needs of our soldiers. At this point, why should Secretary Rumsfeld continue to manage the U.S. military? Secretary Rumsfeld's credibility has been severely damaged. Lastly, since the beginning of the Iraqi war, 2,378 US soldiers have died and more than 17,000 have been injured. Despite the outstanding service of our soldiers, we do not appear to be any closer to bringing our soldiers home than when the war started in 2003. We can not expect a turn around in the Iraq war without new leadership." U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters is the Founder and Chair of the 72-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was formed in June 2005 to pressure the Administration to conclude the war in Iraq as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), the Chair and Founder of the ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus, issued the following statement on the announcement that the House of Representatives will hold a debate on the Iraq war: "I was pleased to see the article in The Hill announcing that Majority Leader Boehner will finally permit the House of Representatives to debate the war in Iraq. This debate is long overdue. "For months, I, and my colleagues in the ‘Out of Iraq' Caucus, have called for a debate on the Iraq war. We have worked hard to push the Republicans to agree to a debate. And they have finally agreed. Now, we must make sure that the debate is substantive, fair and allotted a generous amount of debate time for this vital issue. "We must debate all aspects of this war – the alleged links to al Qaeda and the hyping of pre-war intelligence by the Administration, the decision to end inspections by the United Nations, the number of troops deployed to Iraq and the adequacy of these figures, the inadequate equipment our soldiers were provided, no-bid contracts with an emphasis on Halliburton and its subsidiaries, the military operations, prison abuse, the elections -- and the many other related issues. "The debate will be a failure and an inaccurate representation if Members are not allowed to address these and all the other issues surrounding this war. I urge the Majority Leader to schedule this debate as soon as possible so that we may develop policy that will bring our soldiers home and conclude our involvement in this ill-conceived war. The lives of our soldiers, not to mention thousands of Iraqis, depend on the success of these debates." U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters is the Founder and Chair of the 72-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was formed in June 2005 to pressure the Administration to conclude the war in Iraq as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	Late Wednesday night, Congresswoman Maxine Waters' (CA-35) amendment to strengthen the Department of Defense screening process for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) for active duty soldiers was rejected by the House Rules Committee, a Committee which is largely an extension of the House Republican Leadership. "I am extremely disappointed that the Rules Committee did not make my amendment in order," said Congresswoman Waters. "Post traumatic stress disorder can be among the most debilitating effects of war. People who suffer from PTSD often relive the experience through nightmares and flashbacks, have difficulty sleeping, and feel detached or estranged. Many soldiers have trouble holding jobs; others become violent and/or addicted to drugs and alcohol." "According to an article in today's Washington Post, the Government Accountability Office found that ‘nearly four in five service members returning from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan who were found to be at risk for PTSD were never referred by government clinicians for further help. In all, 9,145 of 178,664 service members who took the screening test were found to be at risk. Of those at risk, 22 percent were referred for help.'" Congresswoman Waters said, "Unbelievably, according to the article, the Department of Defense was unable to explain why only a small fraction of the troops were referred for help. I hope these soldiers are not turned away because of concerns about costs, as many veterans groups believe. My amendment would have strengthen the screening process and provided additional funding for treatment." Congresswoman Waters' amendment called for the Department of Defense to strengthen its screening process of soldiers returning from deployment for Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) by consulting with the Department of Veterans' Affairs, veterans service organizations, the American Psychiatric Association and other relevant groups. It also authorized $15 million for treatment of those diagnosed with PTSD. Congresswoman Waters concluded, "I am disappointed that the Republican Leadership did not make this amendment in order. Our soldiers need and deserve first rate health care, and this amendment was intended to strengthen that care. Unfortunately, the Republicans put politics ahead of our troops." ###
07.30.2009	This weekend's announcement of a new, permanent Iraqi government should not be greeted with the fanfare given to it by the President. On May 20th, Iraqi Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki was inaugurated. In addition, Maliki announced his nominations to lead the various ministries which would help him govern Iraq, which the Iraqi Parliament accepted. However, Prime Minister Maliki did not name anyone for the ministry of Interior or Defense which are considered to be two of the most powerful posts in the Cabinet. Not surprisingly, President Bush declared that the announcement was great news. Since the beginning of the war, he has been searching vainly for something that would reverse the violence in Iraq and permit US soldiers to return home. The seating of a permanent government will not achieve those goals. On Sunday, President Bush said, "the formation of the unity government in Iraq begins a new chapter in our relationship with Iraq." He made similar remarks on Monday. If the President announcing a fresh start in Iraq sounds familiar, it should. At least five times since the beginning of the Iraq war, President Bush has declared that Iraq has reached a positive turning point. He even said it on the one-year anniversary of the Iraq war. On March 19, 2004, the President said, "…as Iraqis join the free peoples of that world, we mark a turning point for the Middle East and a crucial advance for human liberty." We heard similar comments from Vice-President Cheney on several occasions. Time and again, these supposed turning points have fallen flat. After each ‘milestone' was achieved, violence in Iraq grew progressively worse and more US soldiers have died or have been injured. Despite the Administration's consistent public expressions of approval as to certain events that have occurred in the Iraq war, the facts on the ground speak differently: over the weekend, while the Prime Minister was announcing his Cabinet, more than 40 Iraqis were killed and 74 were wounded in attacks across Iraq; over the past three years, the war has caused significant death and destruction in Iraq. Throughout the country, there have been more than 700 bombings which claimed at least 6,281 Iraqi lives including 70 car bombings in April 2006 alone; according to conservative estimates, 30,000 Iraqi civilians have been killed since the war began in March 2003 and as many as 40,000 additional Iraqis have been killed by crime as a result of lawlessness in Iraq. It appears that ordinary Iraqis do not have much faith in the new government. An LA Times article reports that disappointment with the new government crosses religious lines -- it quotes a Sunni Muslim saying, "I don't have much faith that this new government will achieve democracy and security" and a Shiite saying, "I don't trust the new government. I don't expect anything from them." Further, the article reported, "many Iraqis said they were worried that the new government, with its ministries distributed among sectarian parties, would only reinforce animosities between the factions, infusing this fragile society with even deeper tensions." March 19, 2006 marked the third anniversary of the Iraq war. As of May 22nd, 2,457 US soldiers have died and 18,088 have been injured -- 2,318 of these deaths have occurred since May 1, 2003 when the President declared "mission accomplished" while standing on a US aircraft carrier. The war has cost US taxpayers more than $260 billion so far -- almost $11 million per hour! We have endured these costs despite not finding any weapons of mass destruction or any links to Al Qaeda – contrary to the confident reassurances given by the President and his Administration. This war has limited our ability to meet our commitments here at home and has diminished our reputation throughout the world. We must conclude our involvement in Iraq and refocus our efforts on strengthening our homeland through investment in our schools, provision of healthcare for the 45 million Americans without it, and creation of good paying jobs here at home. It is time to bring our soldiers home. U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters is the Founder and Chair of the 72-member 'Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was formed in June 2005 to pressure the Administration to conclude the war in Iraq as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	On the one year anniversary of the founding of the 72 member "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, U. S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), the Chair and one of the group's founding members today launched a campaign to tell the American public the truth about H. J. Res. 73, more commonly known as the "Murtha Plan" and to draw the public's attention to the Bush Administration's incompetent handling of the Iraq war. The anniversary and the launch of the campaign have occurred during the heated debate on H. Res. 861, the divisive Republican resolution on the war in Iraq. "The Republican's plan is to "stay the course" in Iraq regardless the consequences," said Rep. Waters. "In sharp contrast to their meandering, aimless policy the Murtha Resolution will provide finality. It is the best plan in Congress. It redeploys our troops out of Iraq on a timetable established by US military leaders while safeguarding our allies and our security in the Middle East. Rep. Waters will be conducting extensive public outreach and talking directly to the American public to build support for the Murtha Resolution, which will prevent anymore US troops from being sent to Iraq. It will allow US military leaders on the ground to determine when best to redeploy our men and women in uniform. The resolution calls for a contingent of Marines to remain in the Middle East to respond to threats that destabilize our allies in the region or the national security of the United States. Finally, it will supplant prolonged military intervention with good faith diplomatic outreach as the primary way to pursue security and stability in Iraq. Rep. Waters went on to say, "The only thing worse than the Republicans' plan to keep our troops in Iraq with no clearly established objectives or plan to achieve them is the fact that the Democratic leadership seems to have no plan at all. It is time for members on both sides of the aisle to become focused, get a backbone, and to put the full weight of the House of Representatives behind the only comprehensive, realistic strategy that will clean up the debacle in Iraq and bring US troops home." "Iraq has become synonymous with corruption, ineptness, inadequate planning, and duplicity on the part of the Administration and Congressional Republicans. At this point, the continuation of this war is based on ego—not principle," Waters added. During last night's floor debate on H. Res. 861, Rep. Waters challenged House Republicans on their intentional efforts to distort the truth by suggesting that the Murtha resolution would require the United States to "cut and run" In Iraq. She rebutted their erroneous claims by enumerating the three basic principles in H. J. Res 73, the Murtha Resolution. These actions are consistent with the "Out of Iraq" Caucus under her leadership, being the strongest, organized voice in the House of Representatives on the war in Iraq. ABOUT THE "OUT OF IRAQ" CONGRESSIONAL CAUCUS The "Out of Iraq" Caucus was established on June 16, 2005 to bring to the House of Representatives an on-going debate about the war in Iraq and the Administration's justification for the decision to go to war, to urge the return of US service members to their families as soon as possible, and to provide a voice in Congress for the individuals and groups who support these efforts. To accomplish its goals, the "Out of Iraq" Caucus will work with other Congressional Caucuses and national organizations to hold hearings, press conferences and town hall meetings to educate the American people and pressure the Administration to conclude the war in Iraq. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Co-Founder and Chair of the 72 Member "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, upon hearing the Bush Administration's announcement to start decreasing the number of U.S. troops in Iraq, today declared victory in accomplishing one of the Caucus' primary objectives. Late last week, Army General George W. Casey reportedly presented a plan to U.S. military leaders and President Bush that is virtually identical to the one adopted by the "Out of Iraq" Caucus—H.J. Res 73, the Murtha "Over the Horizon" resolution. "For more than a year, the ‘Out of Iraq' Caucus has been actively pushing for the Bush Administration to figure out an end game, get the job done, and bring the troops home," said Rep. Waters. "This is not a time for crowing or 'I told you so.' Now, that the White House has embraced the Murtha resolution, which was the proposal pushed by our caucus, the primary focus must remain on making sure our troops have everything they need to complete their mission and to bringing them home safely." In November 2005, U.S. Rep. John Murtha (PA-12) introduced H.J. Res 73, a resolution establishing the "Over the Horizon" strategy, which would immediately prevent anymore U.S. troops from being sent to Iraq. Next, the resolution calls for the redeployment of US troops in Iraq "as soon as practicable", a decision to be made by military leaders on the ground in Iraq. It then calls for a contingent of Marines to remain in the region—"Over the Horizon"—to protect our allies and quickly combat any potential threats to U.S. national security. Finally, the resolution reinforces the widely held belief that the war in Iraq will not be won through military might alone and shifts the full weight of the United States behind diplomatic efforts. Rep. Waters added, "House Republicans are in a difficult position. Two weeks ago they brought a phony debate to the floor and accused Democrats of wanting to ‘cut-and-run.' Over and over they said the Republican plan was to ‘stay the course.' They said just what Karl Rove told them to say. Now, they find out that President Bush is prepared to adopt the Murtha plan. It looks like the President pulled a cut-and-run on Congressional Republicans." ABOUT THE "OUT OF IRAQ" CONGRESSIONAL CAUCUS The "Out of Iraq" Caucus was established on June 16, 2005 to bring to the House of Representatives an on-going debate about the war in Iraq and the Administration's justification for the decision to go to war, to urge the return of US service members to their families as soon as possible, and to provide a voice in Congress for the individuals and groups who support these efforts. To accomplish its goals, the "Out of Iraq" Caucus will work with other Congressional Caucuses and national organizations to hold hearings, press conferences and town hall meetings to educate the American people and pressure the Administration to conclude the war in Iraq. ### Murtha "Over the Horizon" Plan H.J.Res. 73 (Introduced 11.05) Plan Reportedly Submitted to the Bush Administration White House NO MORE US TROOPS TO IRAQ MURTHA SECTION 1. The deployment of United States forces in Iraq, by direction of Congress, is hereby terminated; · MS. WATERS: [T]here will be no more U.S. troops sent to Iraq and that the troops in Iraq will be redeployed as soon as possible … Congressional Record, 6.14.06 NO ADDITIONAL TROOPS IN IRAQ GEN. CASEY: Well, we -- as the secretary just said, we've gone from when the baseline was 138(,000); we're down to about 126(,000) right now. That's -- 12,000 that's -- whether that's a very substantial amount -- enough, I'll leave to your judgment. But as I said, I think there will be continued gradual reductions here as the Iraqis take on a larger and larger role. https://www.defenselink.mil/transcripts/2006/tr20060622-13318.html US MILITARY LEADERS DETERMINE WHEN TROOPS ARE REDEPLOYED MURTHA SECTION 1. and the forces involved are to be redeployed at the earliest practicable date. · MS. WATERS: … a judgment that should be made by military officials on the ground. Congressional Record, 6.14.06 WHEN ASKED ABOUT SETTING A TIMETABLE FOR WITHDRAWAL GEN. CASEY: I don't like it. I feel it would limit my flexibility. I think it would give the enemy a fixed timetable, and I think it would send a terrible signal to a new government of national unity in Iraq that's trying to stand up and get its legs underneath it. https://www.defenselink.mil/transcripts/2006/tr20060622-13318.html QUICK STRIKE FORCE IN REGION MURTHA SECTION 2.A quick-reaction U.S. force and an over-the-horizon presence of U.S. Marines shall be deployed in the region. · MS. WATERS: [A] group of marines will remain in the Middle East to respond to threats that destabilize our allies in the region or the national security of the United States. Congressional Record, 6.14.06 QUICK RESPONSE FORCES SEC. RUMSFELD: But rather than tying it to a specific force or a specific location -- Kuwait, Germany or the U.S. -- we do like the idea that General Casey feels comfortable having some forces on a relatively short tether at some location where they could moved in in a timely manner to provide the kind of assistance that he feels the circumstances on the ground might call for. https://www.defenselink.mil/transcripts/2006/tr20060622-13318.html "The remaining combat forces would be composed largely of attack helicopters, armored units acting as quick response forces to back up Iraqi security forces, and forward controllers to call in Air Force strikes, a military official said." LA Times, 6.25.06 DIPLOMATIC RESOLUTION MURTHA SECTION 3. The United States of America shall pursue security and stability in Iraq through diplomacy. · MS. WATERS: This war cannot be won through military means alone. We must put the full weight of the United States behind diplomacy in order to end bloodshed in Iraq. Congressional Record, 6.14.06 USE DIPLOMACY TO OBTAIN SECURITY SEC. RUMSFELD: Where we were; that we have asked General Casey and the ambassador to work with the new Iraqi government, which is now in place for the first time, and with the new ministers and the prime minister, to develop a way ahead that they're comfortable with and that we're comfortable, as the Iraqi forces continue to take over bases and provinces and areas of responsibility and move into the lead. https://www.defenselink.mil/transcripts/2006/tr20060622-13318.html The plan would allow Casey "to engage with the new Maliki government, so it can go from a notional concept to a practical plan of security implementation over the next two years," the White House official said. LA TIMES 6.25.06
07.30.2009	On Tuesday, August 1st, US Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) and 18 Members of Congress sent a letter to President Bush asking him to clarify whether or not a civil war exists in Iraq and the number of Iraqis successfully trained and equipped for their security forces. The text of the letter is as follows: August 1, 2006 The Honorable George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are concerned about the deteriorating situation in Iraq. For more than three years, violence in Iraq has grown with each passing day. We ask therefore, that you clarify for us, and the American public, whether or not a civil war exists in Iraq and the number of Iraqis successfully trained and equipped for their security forces. To many people observing the daily violence in Iraq, it appears that there is a civil war. Each day brings about fresh reports of violence in Iraq and more violence in each successive month. In Baghdad, during the month of June, the latest month for which statistics are available, more than 2,000 Iraqi people died violently, at least 39 car bombs exploded, 120 mortar rounds struck the city and 166 roadside bombs exploded. The figures for violence during June would be far greater if the rest of the country was included. More often than not, the acts of violence are targeted against one ethnic or religious group by another – the very definition of a civil war. Most political scientists use the threshold of 1,000 people killed by two or more political factions fighting for political power or control of an area when determining if a civil war is on-going. By that objective standard, Iraq has long ago entered into a civil war: more than 2,500 US troops have died and the Iraqi Health Ministry estimates that 50,000 Iraqis have died since the war began in March 2003. The violence in Iraq has led us and many others to believe there is now a civil war in Iraq. If you feel that a civil war is not, in fact, under way in Iraq, it is important for Americans to know what factors led you to this conclusion despite the daily clashes between Sunnis and Shiites that end in bloodshed. If, however, you believe there is a civil war, should we change our present policy in Iraq and not place our troops in between these warring factions? It is vital that Iraqis successfully assume control of the security in their country so that the US can begin to bring our soldiers home. The latest media reports indicate that 268,000 Iraqi military personnel and 116,000 Iraqi police personnel have been trained and equipped to assume responsibility for the provision of security in Iraq under the Ministry of Defense and Ministry of Interior, respectfully. According to the US Department of Defense, 71 military battalions (about 50,000 Iraqi soldiers) and two police battalions are "in the lead" on operations. However, the daily accounts of violence in Iraq and media reports raise serious concerns about the numbers and readiness of these soldiers. For example, according to the Brookings Institute, only about one-third of the Iraqis trained are able to play a "meaningful role in securing Iraq." Furthermore, news reports indicate that US commanders believe that Defense Ministry units lack an effective command structure or commitment to the mission, limiting their ability to effectively secure Iraq. Others say that it is common for half of an entire Iraqi Defense Ministry unit to desert or refuse to undertake a specified mission. We request that you provide Congress a comprehensive review of the number of Iraqis trained, a qualitative analysis of their readiness and a projection, according to current trends, as to when the number of Iraqis trained necessary will be sufficient to improve the security situation in Iraq to a degree that will warrant the "standing down" of American military personnel. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Rep. Maxine Waters Rep. Jim McGovern Rep. John Lewis Rep. Dennis Kucinich Rep. Barbara Lee Rep. Hilda Solis Rep. Michael Honda Rep. Carolyn Kilpatrick Rep. Neil Abercrombie Rep. Raul Grijalva Rep. John Olver Rep. Tammy Baldwin Rep. Maurice Hinchey Rep. John Conyers, Jr. Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee Rep. Bill Delahunt Rep. Barney Frank Rep. Major Owens Rep. Jan Schakowsky ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement on the declassified summary of the April 2006 National Intelligence Estimate (NIE), which stated that the Iraq war is impeding the war on terrorism and making the United States and the rest of the world less safe: "Yesterday, the President authorized the release of a declassified summary of April's NIE report in an attempt to extinguish the political fires created by its disclosure. However, releasing the summary failed to extinguish those fires and raises additional questions about the President's decision to go to war and his claim that we are winning the war terror. In clear terms, the NIE states that it is the unanimous opinion of all 16 US intelligence agencies that the US occupation of Iraq is the primary motivator behind Islamic radicals seeking to harm the United States, its interests and its allies." "The summary is another repudiation of the President's policies in Iraq. The President went to war under false pretenses – there were no weapons of mass destruction and there were no ties to al Qaeda, but President's decision to go to war has provided al Qaeda and other Islamic radical groups new opportunities to recruit members. I have said consistently said that this war is providing a new recruiting tool for al Qaeda a conclusion which is supported by the NIE; it said the 'Iraq jihad is shaping a new generation of terrorist leaders and operatives.'" "The war in Iraq was not necessary for the security of the United States but rather it was the President's choice. To reflect that fact, as well as the NIE report, the House should vote on my bill H Res 990, which declares that the original authorization for use of force in Iraq is outdated and that a new authorization should be debated and voted on. My resolution will permit Congress to finally develop a coherent policy that will allow us to successfully bring our troops home." "The summary notes that jihadists ‘will use improvised explosive devices and suicide attacks focused primarily on soft targets…' – as they did with the bombing of trains in Madrid and buses in London Yet, the Iraq war has cost us upwards of $370 billion and has prevented us from securing our nation. Rather than fighting a war against a country that had nothing to do with the 9-11 terrorist attacks, we should be working to secure our ports, hire and train border agents and purchase machines that will screen 100% of air cargo. Currently, serious efforts to fund programs that will protect our nation are being drastically underfunded leaving our nation vulnerable to attack. If terrorists attempted to exploit any of these weaknesses would be devastating." "The Iraq war has also distracted the Administration from hunting down Osama bin Laden. It appears that the President's relationship with Pakistani President Musharraf has impeded our ability to enter Pakistan and the border region where Osama bin Laden is thought to be hiding out. President Bush barely muttered a word when Pakistan signed a peace accord with pro-Taliban forces in the areas bordering Afghanistan, agreeing to withdraw its troops from the region in return for the fighters' pledge to stop attacks inside Pakistan. Why isn't President Bush doing more to capture the person ultimately responsible for the worst terrorist attacks on American soil? The President has failed to fulfill the primary duty of his job – to keep Americans safe." ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) urged the President to finally admit what is apparent to everyone who is following the daily events in Iraq – Iraq is in a civil war. "Every day, dozens of Iraqis are murdered," said Congresswoman Waters. "The only conclusion one can reach about the overwhelming violence in Iraq is that the country is mired in a civil war. The sooner the President recognizes this fact, the sooner we can adopt policies that will permit our troops to return home." "The President's stubbornness on this war is appalling. He is determined to keep his blinders on even while US troops die. Since Saturday, 17 American troops have died, bringing the total number of US deaths in Iraq to 2,771. October is on pace to be one of the deadliest months for US troops – 70 have been killed so far this month – since the war began. The death toll for the Iraqis is far worse. Since the start of October, 775 Iraqis have been killed." "In August, when the violence in Iraq was at a lower level, 18 other Members of Congress joined me on a letter asking the President to clarify if there was a civil war in Iraq. To date, I have not received a response from the President. However, in press conferences, the President has indicated that he does not believe there is a civil war. The President's claims appear to be based on emotion instead of fact. He says, essentially, that there isn't a civil war because Iraqis voted in elections last year. That is pure fantasy. Voting in an election does not make a democracy or even a stable government. The daily reports of carnage and death speak volumes to the reality in Iraq. Death squads roam the streets of Baghdad and other Iraqi cities seeking revenge on historical hatred. Our servicemembers must not be placed in the middle of this civil war. The President's policy of ‘staying the course' has failed. It is time for this Administration to develop a new policy for Iraq and work to bring our troops home as soon as possible," said Congresswoman Waters. In September, Congresswoman Waters introduced H Res 984, a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Iraq is in the midst of a civil war since the February 22, 2006, bombing of the Golden Mosque in Samarra, Iraq, one of the holiest places for Shiite Muslims. The resolution has seven cosponsors. ###
07.30.2009	Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today issued the following statement subsequent to NBC News' acknowledging that the sectarian violence in Iraq is, in fact, a full-fledged civil war: "On September 6, 2006, I introduced H Res 984, a resolution expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Iraq is in the midst of a civil war since the February 22, 2006 bombing of the Golden Mosque in Samarra, Iraq, one of the holiest places for Shiite Muslims. Most political scientists define the term "civil war" as a war between different parties of the same country or nation in which casualties are in excess of 1,000 with at least 100 from each side. Clearly, the violence in Iraq reached those thresholds long ago." "On February 28, 2006, in a speech I delivered to the House of Representatives following the bombing of the Golden Mosque, I said, ‘we have seen a country on the brink of civil war slide into civil war.' On October 19th, I issued a press release urging President Bush to finally admit that Iraq is in a civil war." "Today's news, that lawmakers and cabinet ministers loyal to Shiite Cleric Muqtada al-Sadr have suspended participation in Iraq's government, is further evidence of a deteriorating situation in Iraq." "Earlier this week, NBC News became the first major news organization to go on record and declare what many Americans, even those with a limited understanding of international affairs, have already acknowledged. For months, the term "sectarian violence" has been used as a euphemism to describe the full-fledged civil war that has engulfed Iraq and endangers U.S. troops who are now stuck refereeing a violent conflict created by the Bush Administration's failure to adequately plan for a post-invasion Iraq." "However, other major news organizations have avoided their duty to accurately report the facts. The New York Times, for example, has reportedly decided to let its correspondents pick-and-choose when they will refer to the violence as a civil war. And the Christian Science Monitor and the Los Angeles Times have inconsistently used the term "civil war" in their stories. In fact, most news organizations are still unwilling to label the all-consuming violence plaguing Iraq as a civil war." "The media's reluctance to accurately report on the total disintegration of the relatively peaceful pre-war relationship between the Sunni and Shi'a factions has allowed the Bush Administration to continue with its failed ‘stay-the-course' strategy. And, as Iraq continues to devolve into chaos, the media appears to have abandoned its responsibility to hold the President accountable for not having a plan to end the war, for allowing it continue to spiral out of control, and for further endangering the lives of millions of Iraqi civilians and 140,000 U.S. troops." "For months, Shiites have attacked the minority Sunni population, and both groups' militias have fought with Iraqi Security Forces. The United Nations estimates that more than 14,000 Iraqi civilians were killed in the first half of 2006. When I introduced H Res 984, there was no question in my mind Iraq was in the middle of a civil war. Unfortunately, the level of death and violence in Iraq has escalated since its introduction. In October of this year, an estimated 3,709 Iraqis were brutally killed; on November 12th, 159 Iraqis were killed or found dead; on November 20th at least 140 people were reported killed. Just last week, on November 23rd, while we were celebrating Thanksgiving, Sunni insurgents killed more than 215 Iraqis in Sadr City – the worst violence since the war began in 2003; and today, at least 12 Iraqis were killed." "Once again I call on the U.S. Congress – Democrats and Republicans – and the media to find the courage to do the right thing – expose the Bush Administration's mismanagement of this war, and declare that a civil war has broken out in Iraq. Any future plans that do not acknowledge this reality will prolong the occupation of Iraq and lengthen the time U.S. troops are stuck in the middle of the sectarian violence." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chair and Co-Founder of the 73-Member "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, released the following statement regarding the memo authored by outgoing Secretary of Defense, Donald Rumsfeld, in which he makes numerous recommendations to change the course of the Bush Administration's failed policy in Iraq: "The leaked Rumsfeld memo lacks credibility, and it comes too late to provide any solace to the families who have lost loved ones fighting in a war that should have never been started. Upon closer examination, the memo reveals a number of serious problems that further demonstrate exactly why, under the watch of Rumsfeld and Bush, the invasion of Iraq has fallen into a full-scale civil war. Furthermore, until the occupation is ended, there can be no serious discussions about developing comprehensive social services to aid Iraqi citizens, regaining the trust of Middle East nations, or rebuilding Iraq." "The memo, which the Pentagon confirmed was authored by Rumsfeld, was leaked to the media over the weekend. It demonstrates exactly why the outgoing Secretary of Defense was fired and why the President should have accepted his resignation a long time ago. Some of the ideas in the memo were plagiarized from Democrats whom, for the last several months, the Bush Administration has accused of being defeatist and wanting to ‘cut-and-run.' Another of his recommendations would put our troops directly in the line of fire on the Iraqi borders between Iran and Syria with the insurgents in front of them and the militias at their back. Additionally, he suggested embedding members of the Iraqi Security Forces with U.S. troops. This idea is extremely dangerous because it has been well established that the security forces have been infiltrated by members of groups who seek to harm our troops on a daily basis." "The memo was so lacking in credibility that even the White House is already putting distance between it and the President. Sunday, on Meet the Press, National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley referred to it as a ‘laundry list of ideas' that was neither ‘a game plan' nor ‘an effort to sort of try to set out the way forward in Iraq'." "Rumsfeld's constant failures and unwillingness to develop a plan to bring our troops home from Iraq has caused this country unnecessary pain and suffering that could have been avoided if he had just been honest with the American people. This nation can no longer afford to pay the price for Rumsfeld's mistakes. His input is no longer needed or of value, and it is time for him to move on and allow military experts who still have a modicum of credibility to develop a plan that will end the occupation of Iraq and bring our troops home." ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chair and Co-founder of the 73-Member "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, released the following statement regarding the release of the Iraq Study Group's highly anticipated report: It is clear that the Iraq Study Group (ISG) put aside partisan differences and worked together with the best of intentions to produce poignant and thorough recommendations. However, President Bush and outgoing Secretary Rumsfeld have mismanaged the war in Iraq for so long that the resulting chaos threatens to destabilize the entire Middle East region. The first step in the process to repair the extensive damage caused by the Bush Administration's numerous policy failures is to put the full weight and credibility of the United States behind initiating genuine diplomatic efforts through out the entire Middle East region. Reinvigorating peace talks between Arab nations and Israel must be at the top of that list. I have also come to the realization that the so-called "when the Iraqi forces stand up, U.S. forces will stand down," policy is an ill-fated concept that, by itself, will result in neither establishing peace and security in Iraq nor bringing our soldiers home as soon as possible. Based on my initial review, it appears as though the ISG report, makes a number of policy recommendations that are necessary to complete the piecemeal approach taken by the President based almost entirely on "stand up/stand down." For years I have supported policies similar to the ones suggested by the ISG designed to place solid diplomatic efforts before military aggression. In my capacity as both an individual Member of Congress who opposed the war from the beginning and as Chair of the "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, I also agree with the ISG report's recommendation that the United States talk to Iran and Syria as a part of any plan to end the war in Iraq, and I hope that President Bush will set aside his intractable posturing and meet with the leaders of those nations. And, in order to avoid breeding more animosity toward the United States, the President must honor his commitments to help the Iraqi people rebuild their nation. I do not believe the ISG report goes far enough to advocate a strategy that prioritizes pulling our troops out of the full-scale civil war in Iraq and returning them home to their families. But it does make clear that "stay-the-course" has been an abysmal policy failure, and warns the President that if he does not make a significant change in the way he is conducting the war in Iraq, the conflict will continue to devolve into chaos that threatens to draw in the entire Middle East region. ###
07.30.2009	Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today issued the following statement in response to the statement made by President Bush at the conclusion of his meeting at the Pentagon with the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the heads of each major branch of the armed services in the United States Armed Forces: "Incredibly, the President, in his opening remarks today said, ‘I thank these men who wear our uniform for a very candid and fruitful discussion about how to secure this country and how to win a war that we now find ourselves in [emphasis added].'" "The President's statement implies that this war was either accidental or that it was a war we had no choice but to wage. However, there is nothing accidental in the fact we find ourselves in this war. President Bush, from an early stage in his presidency, was intent on going to war with Iraq. The President, the Vice-President, and his war cabinet used the tragic events of September 11th to scare the American people into believing that Saddam Hussein was a greater threat to the United States than he actually was. The President was determined to invade Iraq no matter what our intelligence community told him regarding the threat posed by Saddam Hussein, the costs to our military or to our reputation in the world community." "That fateful decision has cost 2,933 US troops their lives, injured 23,000 more servicemembers and cost US taxpayers more than $350 billion. The President's policy has failed. The sooner he accepts responsibility for this war and admits the reality in Iraq, the sooner we can develop a strategy to conclude our involvement in Iraq." "Mr. President, when are you going to initiate and implement a plan to get us out of Iraq?" Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today offered her assessment of the series of meetings President Bush held this week intended to help him develop a new policy for the Iraq war: "After dismissing many of the recommendations made in the Iraq Study Group's report on the Iraq war, the President spent much of the past several days meeting with experts on the Middle East and the military seeking to develop a new policy which will turn the failed war in Iraq around. I am pleased that he is seeking their advice, but it is a day late and dollar short – especially for the many Americans who lost their lives in this war." "Since the war began, the Progressive community and those opposed to the war have been routinely criticized not only for opposing the war but for not offering a plan in return. It is clear that the President did not have a plan for this war and is now desperately trying to play catch up. These meetings should have been held before the war – if they had, we might not be in this mess. Furthermore, Progressives have been offering the President advice on the war since 2003 – advice which he rejected." "The President and neo-conservatives in his Administration have mismanaged this war and have caused untold death, destruction and damage to Iraq and its people. The war has also severely damaged our military – for example, at least two-thirds of the U.S.'s Army units were rated not ready for deployment. This war has destabilized the Middle East and caused Iran and North Korea to restart their nuclear programs and encouraged other nations to pursue nuclear weapons." "The war is a failure and we must begin the process of bringing our troops home. There is no other option that will restore our credibility in the world, restore our military's readiness and bring stability to Iraq or the Middle East." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) offered the following advice to President Bush as he tries to improve the failed situation that he has created in Iraq: "Mr. President, just don't do it – do not send more of our men and women in uniform to Iraq. Iraq is embroiled in civil war. Our troops should not be sent into a hopeless situation that will likely result in injury or death for many of them." "This war has already stretched our military thin. Many experts, including some at the Pentagon, do not believe that the United States has the capacity to send more troops to Iraq without becoming vulnerable to other threats." "In addition, many experts do not believe that sending more troops to Iraq will accomplish anything. Even General Abizaid, the top U.S. commander for the Middle East, has suggested that more troops in Iraq is unnecessary. One Defense official described the deployment of more troops to Iraq as ‘a double down' – we should never gamble with the lives of our troops. Sending more troops to Iraq is not the solution; we cannot ask our brave men and women to fight – and perhaps die – for nothing." "Mr. President, we should not put more troops in a country where militias are gaining influence and invoke their own style of justice. Militia's run rampant in Iraq, kidnapping, torturing and killing scores of innocent Iraqis each day while at the same time seeking revenge against their historical rivals. Moqtada al-Sadr's militia, al-Mahdi, is one of the worst offenders of this behavior. Each day his militia, which is gaining new members all the time, seeks to expand his influence through gruesome methods. We should not put our troops in the middle of a sectarian civil war." "The only way that the United States military can stabilize Iraq is by redeploying out of Iraq and allowing the Iraqis to assume more responsibility for the security in their country. Mr. President, you must develop and implement a plan to conclude our involvement in Iraq immediately but without sending more troops to the civil war zone that Iraq has become." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today recommended that President Bush follow the advice his former Secretary of State, Colin Powell, provided on the Sunday: "Colin Powell is a man of extraordinary experience – who served in the Army for 35 years, including four years as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He also served for two years as National Security Advisor. He is one of the most respected individuals in America." "Therefore, when Secretary Powell offers his advice, the President should listen carefully to it. The President should have listened to Secretary Powell when he offered the ‘Pottery Barn rule' about the dangers of invading Iraq. The rule, which states, ‘if you break it, you own it' was intended to caution the President against any rush into war. Instead of heeding Secretary Powell's advice, the President went to war with Iraq anyway and broke Iraq and the relative stability of the Middle East." "Unfortunately, Secretary Powell allowed himself to be used by this Administration to sell war with Iraq to the American people and to the world community. Many people believe that it was Secretary Powell's speech to the United Nations in February 2003 – a speech he now regrets delivering – that solidified public support for the invasion of Iraq. However, Secretary Powell's statements over the past weekend were thoughtful and balanced. The President would be wise to accept the advice of his former chief diplomat." "Over the weekend, Mr. Powell said he supported many of the recommendations provided by the Baker-Hamilton Commission, officially known as the Iraq Study Group. Among the recommendations that Secretary Powell supported was the use diplomacy, which includes discussions with Iran and Syria, to restore stability in Iraq and the Middle East. In addition, the former Secretary urged that the President not to send additional troops to Iraq. He suggested against doing so for several reasons including the "active [U.S.] Army is about broken" and there is no clear mission for the additional troops, should they be deployed. Mr. Powell supports many of the principles that I and the ‘Out of Iraq' Caucus have long advocated." "Since the Baker Commission issued its report, the President has been seeking advice from officials inside and outside of the U.S. government. However, the President's stubbornness prevents him from accepting advice from some of the most experienced and knowledgeable individuals, in favor of the advice of those that tell him what he wants to hear. It is long past time for the President to reject the advice of the neo-conservatives, and accept the advice of individuals like Secretary Powell. It is time that the President develop and implement a plan to conclude our involvement in Iraq. He must do so immediately." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement regarding President Bush's press conference today: "Prior to November's election, the President said, ‘we are absolutely winning.' However in today's press conference, he said, ‘we're not winning; we're not losing.'" "The President can't have it both ways. The fact is that we are losing in Iraq. Today's polls indicate that 67 percent of Americans believe that we are losing the Iraq war and want us to conclude our involvement in Iraq. Today's press conference yielded no new information about the President's plans to get us out of Iraq." "The President would have us believe he is waiting for advice from his new Secretary of Defense and others. However, the President has shown that he is not willing to take advice. He has already dismissed the recommendations of the Iraq Study Group, former Secretary of State Powell, and the Join Chiefs of Staff, among others." "In response to a question during the press conference, the President said, ‘… clearly, one aspect of this war that has not gone right is the sectarian violence inside Baghdad; you know, a violent reaction by both Sunni and Shia to each other that has caused a lot of loss of life…'" "What has not gone right is the President's decision to go to war. It is simply incredulous that the President could not have anticipated the breakout of sectarian violence. Before the U.S. invasion of Iraq, there appeared to have been a peaceful coexistence of Sunnis and Shiites. It is our occupation of Iraq that unleashed the sectarian violence. Anyone with a basic understanding of the history of the Middle East and Iraq understands that there is historical animosity and conflict between the Sunnis and the Shiites. In fact, prior to the war, many in the U.S. intelligence community warned the President about the very real possibility of sectarian violence breaking out following the collapse of Saddam Hussein's government, yet the President and his advisors ignored these warnings." "The President's insistence that ‘they can't run us out of the Middle East; that they can't intimidate America' is very dangerous. The President's inflexibility is the very reason why we are in this difficult situation today. The President continued the failed ‘stay the course' policy for far too long. Sticking to his guns, hoping for a reversal of fortune is not the leadership that the American people – and the U.S. military – want or deserve." "The President's comments today fell short of providing answers. Sixty-seven percent of Americans want us out of Iraq. Yet, the President has not offered even a hint of what he plans to do; however, it appears that he intends to do what the American public and his military advisors don't want – to send more troops to Iraq. Sending more troops is the wrong decision for Iraq and for America. We must begin to redeploy U.S. troops from Iraq immediately." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today urged President Bush to make diplomacy the guiding principle of his new Iraq policy which is to be announced sometime next year: "The President's Iraq policy is an utter failure – for our security, our military and our reputation in the world. For the past several weeks, the President has been holding high-profile meetings with various experts in an attempt to reverse Iraq's downward spiral into chaos and intensified civil war. However, these meetings appear to be staged. It appears that the President has all but decided to send more troops to Iraq – in spite of the concerns of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and many other military experts." "The President should put the full weight of the United States behind diplomatic efforts to bring stability to Iraq and the Middle East. Throughout its history, the United States has recognized the importance of aligning itself with allies and, at the appropriate time, utilizing diplomacy to win its battles." "Dozens of individuals with a variety of backgrounds – from the Iraq Study Group, former Secretary Colin Powell, former Senator George McGovern, outgoing-UN Secretary General Kofi Annan and others – have counseled the President to focus less on a military solution to the situation in Iraq and more on one based on diplomacy. Yet, the President continues to focus on guns and boots on the ground – perhaps in an attempt to live up to the macho, cowboy image he has created for himself." "However, with the number of U.S. deaths approaching 3,000 and the cost of the war nearing $500 billion, we urgently need to change course in Iraq. Diplomacy is the best way to restore stability and reduce US involvement in Iraq. I urge the President to heed this advice." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today issued the following statement regarding the high levels of violence in Iraq during Defense Secretary Robert Gates' visit to Iraq: "Mr. Gates, the new Secretary of Defense, has appropriately spent much of his first few days as Secretary focusing on the Iraq war. In fact, Secretary Gates has been meeting with U.S. military officials and Iraqi politicians in Iraq since Wednesday in order to develop the recommendations he will make to President Bush regarding the President's Iraq policy." "The welcome Secretary Gates has received while in Iraq must have been of little comfort. Over the past several days the violence in Iraq has not paused during his visit. On Wednesday, the day Secretary Gates arrived in Iraq, the bodies of 76 Iraqis were recovered in Baghdad. In the past 72-hours more than 50 Iraqis have been murdered throughout the country. Most tragically, since Wednesday the U.S. military has announced the deaths of 12 U.S. servicemembers, bringing the total number of American troops that have been killed in Iraq this month to 71. Since the war began, 2,957 US troops and approximately 247 coalition troops have died because of the war in Iraq. With the passing of each day, the violence in Iraq is getting worse." "The policies carried out by President Bush and the former Secretary of Defense has put the United States between a rock and a hard place. The President's decision to invade Iraq was ill-conceived and poorly planned and left us unprepared to deal with a post-Saddam Iraq. Consequently, our military is stretched thin and our reputation in the world is near its lowest levels ever. However, the new Secretary has the opportunity to address both these problems. He can recommend to the President not to send more troops to Iraq and to begin redeploying our troops from Iraq. These recommendations, if implemented, would relieved the stress on our military and begin the process to repairing our image in the world." "Secretary Gates should also recommend that the President focus on diplomacy, including talks with Iran and Syria, to stabilize Iraq and the Middle East. The Secretary of Defense must have the courage to look the President in the eye and tell him the truth. Secretary Gates has the opportunity to save lives and billions of taxpayers' dollars by making these recommendations. I hope that he takes that opportunity." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement regarding the changes President Bush is making to his Iraq policy team: "Over the past several days, we have learned about the President's plans to make significant changes to his team of advisors and military personnel for the Iraq war. However, these changes will not matter if the underlying policy does not change. The proposed changes in personnel are, in effect, like rearranging the chairs on the Titanic. "According to press reports, Army Lt. General David Petraeus will replace General George Casey as commander of the multinational forces in Iraq. Navy Admiral William Fallon will replace General John Abizaid as head of U.S. Central Command. In addition, the President will name Ambassador Ryan Crocker as the new U.S. ambassador to Iraq, replacing Ambassador Zalmay Khalilzad who will be nominated as the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations. Lastly, National Intelligence Director John Negroponte has been nominated as Deputy Secretary of State, to be replaced by the former Director of the National Security Agency and retired Navy Admiral, Michael McConnell. "The President has every right to surround himself with the individuals he feels would give him the advice he needs to make a decision. However, it seems that he is merely surrounding himself with people who agree with him. It appears that General Casey and General Abizaid are being replaced because they do not agree with the President's policies. For example, General Abizaid, in testimony last year to the Senate Armed Services Committee, specifically said that he did not feel that additional troops should be sent to Iraq – contradicting the policy President Bush is likely to recommend. General Casey and General Abizaid have served our country with distinction; their opinions should be valued by our nation's policymakers. "A failed policy will only result in continued failure, no matter who makes the recommendations. Instead of naming new personnel, the President should announce a new policy – one that makes diplomacy and the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq its central platform. Sending more U.S. troops to Iraq, as the President is rumored to be planning, will not change the disastrous results America has witnessed in Iraq so far. Diplomacy, including discussions with Iran and Syria, and redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq are the keys to achieving stability in the region." Representative Maxine Waters is Chair of the 73-member ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus. The Caucus was founded in June 2005 to pressure the Bush Administration to conclude the Iraq war as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement regarding President Bush's speech tonight in which he announced his decision to send more U.S. troops to Iraq: "The President is making a profound mistake by increasing the number of U.S. servicemembers in Iraq. In his speech tonight, he declared that he will send more than 20,000 troops to Iraq. The President also said it was a mistake not sending more troops to Iraq sooner. Tonight's decision will only compound the mistake of invading Iraq in the first place – as the saying goes, ‘when you find yourself in a hole, the first thing you do is stop digging.' By sending more troops to Iraq, the President is digging us into a deeper hole." "I do not believe that increasing the number of U.S. troops in Iraq will halt the sectarian violence that is tearing Iraq apart. It will only result in more deaths and injuries to our men and women in uniform and the continued loss of U.S. credibility around the world." "For the duration of the war – which will enter its fourth year in March – the President has said that he will listen to suggestions from the commanders on the ground as to an appropriate level of troops for the current operation. In an apparent flip-flop, the President is now rejecting the advice of General Abizaid and other military officials who believe not only that the escalation will not succeed, but that it may finally break the Army and Marine Corps, which are already stretched thin." "In another flip-flop, President Bush is refutes the words he spoke in 2005 when he celebrated the one year anniversary of the transfer of sovereignty in Iraq. At the time, the President rejected sending more troops to Iraq by saying, ‘[s]ending more Americans would undermine our strategy of encouraging Iraqis to take the lead in this fight. And sending more Americans would suggest that we intend to stay forever.'" "The President rejected the one piece of advice that nearly all military and public policy experts agreed on – and importantly that the American people supported -- the use of diplomacy. There is near universal agreement that this war cannot be won solely by military force. Instead, the United States must use every diplomatic tool available to it, including talks with Iran and Syria." "Sending more troops to Iraq is the wrong policy, at the wrong time. I will work with the ‘Out of Iraq' Caucus and other Members of Congress to prevent more of our men and women in uniform from being sent to Iraq and to bring those already serving in Iraq home to their loved ones." ###
07.30.2009	Today, Representative Maxine Waters, Chair of the "Out of Iraq" Caucus and its leadership sent a letter to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi expressing support of her efforts to encourage opposition to President's Bush's decision to send more U.S. troops to Iraq. The letter also urged Speaker Pelosi to hold a vote by the House of Representatives on legislation that opposes escalation of the Iraq war. The letter was signed by Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Representative Woolsey (CA-6), Representative John Conyers, Jr. (MI-14), Representative Charlie Rangel (NY-15), Representative Barbara Lee (CA-9), Representative Jan Schakowsky (IL-9), Representative William Delahunt (MA-10), Representative John Lewis (GA-5), Representative Maurice Hinchey (NY-22), Representative Nydia Velázquez (NY-12), and Representative Jim McDermott (WA-7). A copy of the letter is below. Text of the Letter January 10, 2007 The Honorable Nancy Pelosi Speaker U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 Dear Speaker Pelosi: On behalf of the "Out of Iraq" Caucus, we urge you to oppose any efforts by the Administration to escalate the Iraq war, including deployment of additional U.S. troops to Iraq and urge the House Democratic Caucus to adopt a resolution which expresses opposition to such escalation. The resolution should then be brought up for a vote by the entire House of Representatives. We do not believe that deployment of additional U.S. troops to Iraq will end the violence in Iraq created by militias that roam Iraq's streets or the death squads that operate under the guise of Iraqi security forces nor reverse the deteriorating situation in the region. In the period preceding the war and the nearly four years that have followed, the Administration promoted the war by claiming that Saddam Hussein possessed weapons of mass destruction. The Administration continued to mislead the American people by claiming that Iraq posed an imminent threat to the United States and its allies; that U.S. troops would be greeted as liberators; and, as Former Budget Director Mitch Daniels stated, "[t]here's just no reason that this can't be an affordable endeavor." However, the Administration ultimately has had to admit that there were no weapons of mass destruction and that Iraq did not pose an imminent threat to the United States or its allies. Clearly, with a tab of $350 billion and growing, the war has been a significant financial burden for the U.S. taxpayers. The war has also posed a significant burden to our servicemembers. Since the Iraq war started on March 19, 2003 more than 3,000 U.S. servicemembers have died and more than 22,000 more have been injured. Iraq is in a civil war. As the Iraq study Group stated in its report: Attacks against U.S., Coalition, and Iraqi security forces are persistent and growing. October 2006 was the deadliest month for U.S. forces since January 2005, with 102 Americans killed. Total attacks in October 2006 averaged 180 per day, up from 70 per day in January 2006. Daily attacks against Iraqi security forces in October were more than double the level in January. Attacks against civilians in October were four times higher than in January. Some 3,000 Iraqi civilians are killed every month (page 10). Furthermore, our troops are being deserted by their Iraqi counterparts at crucial moments. With Iraqi security forces having been infiltrated by militias, our troops do not know whom to trust. The daily acts of suicide bombers and attackers who use Improvised Explosive Devises (IED) will not be abated by the proposed increase of 20,000 troops. After being mislead for so long, and with so much death and destruction as a result of the President's decision to invade Iraq, the "Out of Iraq" Caucus cannot, in good conscience, support an escalation of the U.S. involvement in Iraq. We urge the Democratic Leadership to review the current legislative proposals that express opposition to an escalation of U.S. involvement in Iraq and to develop a resolution that incorporates the strongest points of these measures for adoption by the Democratic Caucus. Thank you for your attention to this matter. Sincerely, Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) Representative Woolsey (CA-6) Representative John Conyers, Jr. (MI-14) Representative Charlie Rangel (NY-15) Representative Barbara Lee (CA-9) Representative Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) Representative William Delahunt (MA-10) Representative John Lewis (GA-5) Representative Maurice Hinchey (NY-22) Representative Nydia Velázquez (NY-12) Representative Jim McDermott (WA-7) ###
07.30.2009	Today, Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Representative Lynn Woolsey (CA-6), Representative Barbara Lee (CA-9) and other Members of Congress introduced legislation, H.R. 508, that would conclude the United States' involvement in Iraq within 6 months of the enactment of the legislation. Congresswoman Waters' statement is below: "First, I would like to thank Representative Woolsey, Representative Lee and all the others here today for their work to conclude the war in Iraq. The individuals here today have been a strong and consistent voice in calling for a conclusion of the Iraq war. "Today, we are here to unveil legislation introduced by Representative Woolsey and supported by each of us that would conclude the United States' involvement in Iraq within 6 months. "If enacted, the bill would: • Repeal the authorization of the use of force against Iraq that was passed by Congress in 2002; • Require the complete withdrawal of US troops and contractors within 6 months of the enactment of this bill; • Turn security activities and military operations in Iraq over to the elected Iraqi government within 6 months of the date of enactment. • Prohibit the US from establishing permanent bases in Iraq; • Accelerate the training and equipping of Iraqi military and security forces; • Pursue security and stability in Iraq through diplomacy; • Provide assistance to the Iraqi government in recovering archeological, cultural and historic artifacts that have been lost since the US invasion; • Fully fund veterans health care. "This plan is what the American people wanted when they voted for a Democratic Congress in the mid-term elections. "The President's decision to escalate the war was a misguided one. It was built on false and misleading statements and has gone on for far too long. The United States has paid too much -- in both human lives and dollars – for this war. As of today, more than 3,310 US servicemembers have died; more than 22,000 have been injured; and the war has cost US taxpayers more than $350 billion – nearly $10 billion a week. "Last week, the President proposed sending more troops to Iraq; that will not improve the situation in Iraq. "Instead, we should support this bill, redeploy our troops from Iraq and, once and for all end our involvement in Iraq." ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement regarding the deaths of more than 25 US servicemembers in Iraq over the weekend: "The news we heard over the weekend is heartbreaking. More than 25 US servicemembers died in Iraq, including 5 that died during an attack within a government compound in which the insurgents wore what looked like authentic U.S. military uniforms. The attacks show that the danger to our troops is as high as it has ever been. I wish that we could expect the situation in Iraq to get better. However, I'm concerned that the strategy that the President is implementing – sending more than 20,000 additional US troops to Iraq – is a failed policy that will only result in more US deaths. "In his statement to the nation nearly two weeks ago, the President announced that many of these new troops will be charged with the responsibility of securing Baghdad, the source of much of the violence in Iraq. I fear that this policy will result in US troops confronting members of Moqtada al-Sadr's militia, al-Madhi, resulting in hundreds of additional US casualties and deaths. "Despite nearly four years of fighting, the attacks against US forces have become bolder and more deadly. According to news reports, the US Black Hawk helicopter that crashed over the weekend, killing 12 US troops died, may have been shot down by missile fired by insurgents -- giving them a new method of attacking our troops. In an even bolder move, insurgents utilized vehicles and uniforms that struck a strong resemblance to those used by US troops and U.S. government officials when they attacked our troops in Karbala. Five US servicemembers died in that attack. "The President's strategy to send more troops to Iraq will not work. Our presence in Iraq is fueling the insurgency; sending more troops only adds more fuel to the fire. The President must develop a plan to bring our troops home." ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today sent a letter to her Congressional colleagues urging them to participate in the anti-war rally planned for Saturday, January 27, 2007. The text of the letter is below: January 22, 2007 Dear Colleague: By now, you should have received an invitation from United for Peace and Justice to participate in the anti-Iraq war rally planned for January 27th. I encourage you to march with me and thousands of other individuals from around the country who want to bring our troops home. Members of Congress who participate in the march will be given a prime spot at the head of the march to highlight their opposition to the war. Who: Members of Congress and Concerned Americans What: Rally and March on Washington calling for a conclusion to the Iraq war When: Saturday, January 27, 2007 @ 11:00 AM Where: National Mall, between 3rd & 7th Streets The American people have spoken – they want an end to the war in Iraq. This rally will provide Members of Congress an opportunity to show their support for ending the war in Iraq. Many participants in the march will also take part in a ‘lobby day' on Monday, January 29, 2007. They will request a meeting with their Member of Congress to share their views on the war. I encourage you to welcome them and to meet with them to hear their concerns about continuing the Iraq war. I also invite you to attend a book fair with leading authors of books on the Iraq war on Monday, January 29 from 2:00 to 4:00 in 1100 Longworth House Office Building. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the below statement following the President's State of the Union address tonight: "I was disappointed that the President failed to propose a reasonable response to either the quagmire in Iraq or the most pressing issues American families face, issues such as affordable healthcare, housing, and education. "The Iraq war has weakened the United States economically and militarily. It has made Americans less safe by providing a recruiting tool for terrorist organizations like al Qaeda, and it has severely harmed our reputation around the world. In his speech tonight, the President failed to show why the escalation he proposed two weeks ago will reverse the violence that cripples Iraq. More than 3,000 US troops have died, including 27 that have died over the past three days. Sending more troops to Iraq will only result in more deaths and injuries to them. "I was also disappointed that the President did not address the housing crisis we have here in the United States. Affordable housing is out of reach for many Americans, and some of these Americans are our military service-men and -women who are returning home from Iraq. While the cost of the Iraq war is estimated to be $8.4 billion a month, these are funds that could be used to create more affordable housing in this country. There are over 30 million heads of households in the U.S. who live in unaffordable housing, 14 million are renting, and 6 million of these persons are very poor, paying more than 50 percent of their income for housing. The shortage of affordable housing is one of the real threats to the American people. "Meanwhile, there are over 46 million Americans who don't have health insurance. That is a 15% increase in the number of uninsured since the President took office. The only solution the President offered was to provide tax deductions for purchasing health insurance. Tax deductions provide the greatest benefit to those who are in the highest tax bracket. They will not help the millions of Americans who cannot afford health insurance, nor will they help those who have been denied health insurance because of a pre-existing condition like the AIDS virus. And how does the President plan to pay for this new tax deductions for the wealthy? By raising taxes on middle-income families who are fortunate enough to have good health insurance provided by an employer! "In addition, the President called for Congress to reauthorize No Child Left Behind Act, which is scheduled to expire this year. However, for the past 6 years, the President has failed to put the weight of his office behind his signature education program. He again fails to address the funding gap created when he underfunded the No Child Left Behind Act by $55 billion with his last budget proposal. "The President did not pay enough attention to Iraq in his speech in order to divert attention from his failed policies there, nor did his speech mention or devise a realistic plan to address his Administration's shortfalls in healthcare, housing, and education. He can avoid the Iraq war and the needs of working families here at home, but they will not go away. The President should have used his State of the Union address to provide real answers to the challenges our nation faces. Unfortunately, he has only ducked them, leaving them for another day. That is not the leadership that the American people deserve." ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) participated in the anti-Iraq war rally and march in Washington, DC today. She also spoke to the crowd. "I am proud to be here today. I want President Bush to know that I and the thousands of Americans here today – and millions more around the country -- want an end to the Iraq war. Today's rally and march clearly shows the American public's disgust and displeasure with the war. It shows the President that the American people want our troops home – now!" said Congresswoman Waters. "The Iraq war has been raging for almost four years. The situation in Iraq is deteriorating each day. Everyday sectarian violence claims the lives of scores of Iraqis and our troops are often caught in the crossfire. More than 3,060 US servicemembers have died since the war in Iraq began on March 19, 2003. It is unfair and wrong to ask our troops to risk life and limb in order to referee a civil war. It is time to support our troops by bringing them home." Representative Waters has been an active and vocal opponent of the war in Iraq. In June of 2005, Representative Waters founded, and now serves as Chair of the "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus. The "Out of Iraq" Caucus, which has more than 75 members, was founded to pressure the Administration into concluding the war in Iraq as soon as possible. ###
07.30.2009	On Monday, January 29th, U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), chair of the "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, Representative Barbara Lee (CA-9) and Representative Lynn Woolsey (CA-6), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Progressive Caucus have organized a book fair and roundtable discussion with the leading authors of books on the Iraq war. The event, which will take place 2:00pm to 4:00pm in 1100 Longworth House Office Building (Ways & Means Committee Room), is open to members of the public, and the press. Authors confirmed to participate include: • Mr. Aaron Glantz, author of How America Lost Iraq; • Ms. M. M. Chantiloupe, author of Iraq: The War That Shouldn't Be - You Decide; • Mr. David J. Danelo, Blood Stripes: The Grunt's View of the War in Iraq; • Mr. Anthony Arnove, Iraq: The Logic of Withdrawal; • Mr. John Prados, Hoodwinked: The Documents that Reveal How Bush Sold Us a War; • Ms. Kirsten Holmstedt, Band of Sisters: American Women at War in Iraq; • Mr. Paul Joseph, Are Americans Becoming More Peaceful?; • Mr. James Bamford, A Pretext for War: 9/11, Iraq, and the Abuse of America's Intelligence Agencies; • Mr. Paul Rieckhoff, Chasing Ghosts: A Soldier's Fight for America from Baghdad to Washington; • Mr. Kenneth J. Campbell, A Tale Of Two Quagmires: Iraq, Vietnam, And The Hard Lessons Of War; • Antonia Juhasz, The Bush Agenda: Invading the World, One Economy at a Time. ###
07.30.2009	Statement- Thank you all for being here. I would especially like to thank Congresswoman Lynn Woolsey for joining me today. The details about the Iraq war are familiar to all of us-- • 3,063 US troops have died and more than 23,000 others have been injured. • More than $379 billion have been appropriated for the Iraq war. • And tens of thousands of Iraqis have lost their lives, their loved ones, their jobs and their homes due to this war. We also know the Bush Administration mislead the American people – and Congress -- about the threat Iraq posed to the United States. However, the details of how the Administration sold this war, as well as the consequences of that decision have not always been clear. Today, we have a unique opportunity to hear firsthand from 11 authors that have written books on the Iraq war. Each of these individuals have spent countless hours researching the Bush Administrations arguments for going to war, the Administration's subsequent handling of the war and have articulated it in their books. For example, the authors have written about: • The Administration's manufacture of intelligence in order to sell the war to the American public; • The mismanagement of the war; • And perhaps most importantly we will hear about the experiences of the troops themselves -- One author chronicles a marine infantry battalion as it fought in Iraq in April 2004; another author's writes of his own tour of duty in Iraq; and another author will describe the experiences of our female servicemembers as they have served in this war as a member of the US armed forces. These authors have played a vital role in helping Members of Congress and the American people understand the many issues that surround the war. Their work is incredibly important and I thank each of them for their time and effort. I am going to ask that Congresswoman Woolsey help me introduce each one of these authors. Following their introduction, each author will present the findings of his or her book for about five minutes. ###
07.30.2009	About the Authors • Mr. Anthony Arnove – Mr. Arnove is the author of "Iraq: The Logic of Withdrawal." His writing has appeared in The Financial Times, The Nation, L'Humanite, Le Nouvel Observateur, and other publications. • Mr. James Bamford – James Bamford is a bestselling author and one of the country's leading writers on intelligence and national security issues. Mr. Bamford has also written for many magazines, including investigative cover stories for The New York Times Magazine, The Washington Post Magazine and The Los Angeles Times Magazine, and is a contributing writer for Rolling Stone. He recently won the 2006 National Magazine Award for Reporting, the highest honor in the magazine industry. • Mr. Kenneth Campbell -- Dr. Campbell served in the Marines after high school, serving as an artillery forward observer with a rifle company in Vietnam in 1968-1969 and earning eight medals, including the Purple Heart. He was honorably discharged in 1970 and joined the antiwar movement, becoming a leader in the Vietnam Veterans Against the War. He also enrolled at Temple University and was awarded a B.A. in history in 1975 and in 1989 received a Ph.D. from Temple. Currently, he serves as an associate professor of political science and international relations and director of the international relations program at the University of Delaware. • Ms. Magetta Chantiloupe -- Ms. Chantiloupe was born in Jamaica, West Indies and now resides in San Diego, California. She spent 22 years in the securities and financial planning industries and is an emeritus Certified Financial Planner and Stock Broker. • Mr. David J. Danelo – Mr. Danelo is the editor for U.S. Cavalry ON Point. He graduated from the U.S. Naval Academy in 1998 and served as an infantry officer in the Marine Corps for almost seven years. An Iraq war veteran, Mr. Danelo deployed to Camp Fallujah from Feb-Sept 2004, where he served with the First Marine Expeditionary. At the end of 2004, Mr. Danelo left active duty to pursue a writing career. • Mr. Aaron Glantz – Mr. Glantz is a reporter for Pacifica Radio and other media outlets. He has visited Iraq three times during the U.S. occupation, most recently during the elections in January of 2005. His work from Iraq has also been syndicated to newspapers around the world by Inter Press News Service. In addition to Iraq, Mr. Glantz has also reported from Egypt, Turkey, Jordan, South Korea, Hong Kong, Indonesia, India, Vietnam, France, and Denmark. • Ms. Kirsten Holmstedt -- Ms. Holmstedt is a graduate of Drake University's School of Journalism and the University of North Carolina Wilmington's master of fine arts program in creative nonfiction writing. Ms. Holmstedt has spent the past twenty years writing for newspapers, business, academia, and magazines. Beginning in 2003, Ms. Holmstedt spent hundreds of hours interviewing female soldiers, Marines, airmen, and sailors for her book "Band of Sisters: American Women at War in Iraq," • Mr. Paul Joseph – Professor Joseph is a professor at Sociology Department of Tufts University, specializing in the impact of social movements and other forms of public opinion on policy-making. He also serves as the Director of the Peace and Justice Studies at Tufts. He has published books on the Vietnam War, nuclear weapons policy, and the security debate after the end of the Cold War. • Mr. Christian Parenti – Mr. Parenti is a correspondent for The Nation and is author of "The Freedom: Shadows and Hallucinations in Occupied Iraq." He received a PhD in sociology from the London School of Economics in 2000 and has written two other books. • Mr. John Prados – Mr. Prados is an analyst of national security based in Washington, DC. Mr. Prados holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University and focuses on presidential power, international relations, intelligence and military affairs. He is a senior fellow and project director with the National Security Archive. His current book is Safe for Democracy: The Secret Wars of the CIA (Ivan Dee Publisher). His articles and op-ed pieces have appeared widely, including Vanity Fair, The New York Times, The Los Angeles Times, and elsewhere. • Mr. Paul Rieckhoff – Mr. Rieckhoff is the executive director and founder of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America (IAVA), the first and largest organization for veterans of the War on Terror. He served in Iraq and led his light infantry platoon on hundreds of combat patrols with the 3rd Infantry and 1st Armored Divisions. Mr. Rieckhoff was an infantry officer in Iraq from 2003-2004, and one of the first Iraq veterans to publicly criticize the war and demand accountability from elected officials. He continues to serve his country as an Infantry Officer in the New York Army National Guard. • Ms. Antonia Juhasz – Ms. Juhasz is a policy-analyst, author and activist living in San Francisco. She is a Visiting Scholar at the Washington, DC-based Institute for Policy Studies. Ms. Juhasz is an expert on all aspects of international trade and finance policy with a Masters Degree in Public Policy from Georgetown University, experience as a Legislative Assistant to two United States Members of Congress, including Congressman John Conyers, Jr. ###
07.30.2009	As one of the founders of the Out of Iraq Caucus, along with California Democratic Reps. Barbara Lee and Lynn Woolsey, I have been persistent and unrelenting in my efforts to bring pressure on the U.S. House of Representatives to vote to fully fund our safe and secure withdrawal from Iraq. Not only did the American public speak loudly and clearly last Nov. 7, but poll after poll reinforces the message that Americans want their troops home now. The president's supplemental request is just what the word "supplemental" implies — additional funds to expand and continue this war. I believe that there is enough money available in the pipeline to fund a planned exit. I will vote against the supplemental unless the additional funds are used to fully fund the safe, secure and timely withdrawal of our troops by Dec. 31. Our soldiers are being killed every day. So far this week, 12 U.S. troops have been killed, which brings the total to almost 3,200 dead and more than 24,000 injured. My greatest fear is that we will all awaken one morning to the news that hundreds or maybe even thousands have been killed in a massive attack. Contrary to the rhetoric of President Bush and his administration, we were not welcomed in Iraq with open arms. Rather, we were seen as occupiers by the Sunnis, Shiites and the Kurds alike. Day after day, from Fallujah to Sadr City, our troops are placed in the midst of a civil war that cannot be contained by American forces. While the president is determined to continue this war and has adopted the "cut and run" sound bite to intimidate those of us who disagree with him, the American people are demanding leadership, not safe political nuances by politicians who believe they can have it both ways. Democrats can no longer afford to create the perception that we are against this war without taking meaningful action. The vote on the president's supplemental appropriation is an opportunity for this Congress to prove that members have heard the voices of the American people who want a fully funded safe, secure and timely withdrawal of our troops from Iraq. ###
07.30.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA35) delivered a passionate speech today on the floor of the House of Representatives urging the passage of HR. 2956, The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. The bill, passed with overwhelming support from Democratic Members of the House, requires the Administration to commence a reduction in the number of troops serving in Iraq. "1581 days - 53 months - or over four years since this President led this Nation to war in Iraq. Over 3600 soldiers killed – 2,600 American soldiers seriously injured - 60,000 to 100,000 Iraqis killed - ten billion dollars per month - five hundred billion American dollars spent on this War! "A civil war is raging in Iraq. There is no credible government in Iraq. Iraq is totally destabilized. And Iraq refugees are flooding the neighboring countries. "There is no coalition of the willing supporting the US effort in this war, and we're well on our way to destabilizing the entire Middle East. President Bush and the chief architect of this war, Vice President Dick Cheney, are in denial about the disastrous mess that they have created. "Some of us have known for quite some time that this war must end. Representatives Barbara Lee, Lynn Woolsey, and I, along with several other members of Congress created the Out of Iraq Caucus over two years ago. We organized this Caucus and we were dismissed as ‘bleeding-heart-liberals.' "It has taken too long to get to the point that we are at today. This bill will at least demand a strategy to get us out of Iraq, and a deadline has been set for the President. This has been a long time in coming. However, ladies and gentlemen, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. President Bush will apply all kinds of pressure; threaten us, mislead us, scare us, and spin us blind so that he may continue this immoral war. We must decide that we are not going to fund this war any longer. "In the words of the people on the street who are organized against this war, ‘Mr. President. Not another nickel. Not another dime. Not another soldier. Not this time.' "I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill- it is a good start. But, remember, when push comes to shove, we have got to de-fund this war." ###
07.30.2009	As public frustration with President Bush's failed Iraq policy continues to mount, a bi-partisan group of 70 members of Congress asserted their power to use the appropriations process to change the policy in Iraq, directly challenging the President's claim that Congress' only power with regard to the conflict is to fund the policy he has set. Led by Progressive, and Out of Iraq Caucus Chairs Reps. Lynn Woolsey (D-CA), Barbara Lee (D-CA), and Maxine Waters (D-CA), 70 House Members today delivered a letter to President Bush putting him on notice that when the Congress takes up the FY '08 funding for military operations in Iraq in September they will only support appropriating funding for military operations in Iraq that are used to fully fund the safe and orderly redeployment of US troops from Iraq. In their letter, the broad collection of members cited the skyrocketing human and financial costs of the President's failed Iraq policy and warned that the occupation's costs will be felt for generations to come: "We are writing to inform you that we will only support appropriating additional funds for U.S. military operations in Iraq during Fiscal Year 2008 and beyond for the protection and safe redeployment of all our troops out of Iraq before you leave office […] "We agree with a clear and growing majority of the American people who are opposed to continued, open-ended U.S. military operations in Iraq, and believe it is unwise and unacceptable for you to continue to unilaterally impose these staggering costs and the soaring debt on Americans currently and for generations to come," they wrote. The full text of the letter is below: Dear Mr. President: We are writing to inform you that we will only support appropriating additional funds for U.S. military operations in Iraq during Fiscal Year 2008 and beyond for the protection and safe redeployment of all our troops out of Iraq before you leave office. More than 3,600 of our brave soldiers have died in Iraq. More than 26,000 have been seriously wounded. Hundreds of thousands of Iraqis have been killed or injured in the hostilities and more than 4 million have been displaced from their homes. Furthermore, this conflict has degenerated into a sectarian civil war and U.S. taxpayers have paid more than $500 billion, despite assurances that you and your key advisors gave our nation at the time you ordered the invasion in March, 2003 that this military intervention would cost far less and be paid from Iraqi oil revenues. We agree with a clear and growing majority of the American people who are opposed to continued, open-ended U.S. military operations in Iraq, and believe it is unwise and unacceptable for you to continue to unilaterally impose these staggering costs and the soaring debt on Americans currently and for generations to come. Sincerely, Rep. Lynn Woolsey (CA); Rep. Barbara Lee (CA); Rep. Maxine Waters (CA); Rep. Ellen Tauscher (CA); Rep. Rush Holt (NJ); Rep. Maurice Hinchey (NY); Rep. Diane Watson (CA); Rep. Ed Pastor (AZ); Rep. Barney Frank (MA); Rep. Danny Davis (IL); Rep. John Conyers (MI); Rep. John Hall (NY); Rep. Bob Filner (CA); Rep. Nydia Velazquez (NY); Rep. Bobby Rush (IL); Rep. Charles Rangel (NY); Rep. Ed Towns (NY); Rep. Paul Hodes (NH); Rep. William Lacy Clay (MO); Rep. Earl Blumenauer (OR); Rep. Albert Wynn (MD); Rep. Bill Delahunt (MA); Rep. Eleanor Holmes Norton (DC); Rep. G. K. Butterfield (NC); Rep. Hilda Solis (CA); Rep. Carolyn Maloney (NY); Rep. Jerrold Nadler (NY); Rep. Michael Honda (CA); Rep. Steve Cohen (TN); Rep. Phil Hare (IL); Rep. Grace Flores Napolitano (CA); Rep. Alcee Hastings (FL); Rep. James McGovern (MA); Rep. Marcy Kaptur (OH); Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL); Rep. Julia Carson (IN); Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA); Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ); Rep. John Olver (MA); Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee (TX); Rep. Jim McDermott (WA); Rep. Ed Markey (MA); Rep. Chaka Fattah (PA); Rep. Frank Pallone Jr. (NJ); Rep. Rubin Hinojosa (TX); Rep. Pete Stark (CA); Rep. Bobby Scott (VA); Rep. Jim Moran (VA); Rep. Betty McCollum (MN); Rep. Jim Oberstar (MN); Rep. Diana DeGette (CO); Rep. Stephen Lynch (MA); Rep. Artur Davis (AL); Rep. Hank Johnson (GA); Rep. Donald Payne (NJ); Rep. Emanuel Cleaver (MO); Rep. John Lewis (GA); Rep. Yvette Clarke (NY); Rep. Neil Abercrombie (HI); Rep. Gwen Moore (WI); Rep. Keith Ellison (MN); Rep. Tammy Baldwin (WI); Rep. Donna Christensen (USVI); Rep. David Scott (GA); Rep. Luis Gutierrez (IL); Lois Capps (CA); Steve Rothman (NJ); Elijah Cummings (MD); and Rep. Ron Paul (R-TX). ###
07.30.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA35) delivered a passionate speech today on the floor of the House of Representatives urging the passage of H.R. 2956, The Responsible Redeployment from Iraq Act. The bill, passed with overwhelming support from Democratic Members of the House, requires the Administration to commence a reduction in the number of troops serving in Iraq. "1581 days - 53 months - or over four years since this President led this Nation to war in Iraq. Over 3600 soldiers killed – 2,600 American soldiers seriously injured - 60,000 to 100,000 Iraqis killed - ten billion dollars per month - five hundred billion American dollars spent on this War! "A civil war is raging in Iraq. There is no credible government in Iraq. Iraq is totally destabilized. And Iraq refugees are flooding the neighboring countries. "There is no coalition of the willing supporting the US effort in this war, and we're well on our way to destabilizing the entire Middle East. President Bush and the chief architect of this war, Vice President Dick Cheney, are in denial about the disastrous mess that they have created. "Some of us have known for quite some time that this war must end. Representatives Barbara Lee, Lynn Woolsey, and I, along with several other members of Congress created the Out of Iraq Caucus over two years ago. We organized this Caucus and we were dismissed as ‘bleeding-heart-liberals.' "It has taken too long to get to the point that we are at today. This bill will at least demand a strategy to get us out of Iraq, and a deadline has been set for the President. This has been a long time in coming. However, ladies and gentlemen, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. President Bush will apply all kinds of pressure; threaten us, mislead us, scare us, and spin us blind so that he may continue this immoral war. We must decide that we are not going to fund this war any longer. "In the words of the people on the street who are organized against this war, ‘Mr. President. Not another nickel. Not another dime. Not another soldier. Not this time.' "I urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill- it is a good start. But, remember, when push comes to shove, we have got to de-fund this war." ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chair and Co-founder of the 76-Member "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, recently introduced H.R. 3134, the Responsible Security in Iraq Act. This bill would prohibit the use of funds for the training and equipping of Iraqi security forces and Iraqi civilians. Rep. Waters said, "Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden were both supported and equipped by the United States in the past. How can we be sure we're not putting guns in the hands of a future enemy?" Initial assumptions about the ability of our military to train effective Iraqi security forces were seriously flawed. Despite efforts to generate a sizeable national force, the Iraqi security forces have not developed as fast as the Bush Administration promised and, as a result, are not capable of taking responsibility for the nation's security. Without a unifying central government to which a majority of Iraqis are loyal to, we are merely training different factions of a violent sectarian conflict. "Even more troubling," Rep. Waters said, "there is no guarantee that the Iraqi troops we equip will remain loyal to the United States. We risk raising an army that might one day be turned against the United States or our allies in the region. In fact, there is already wide evidence of participation by Iraqi personnel in death squads, kidnappings and sectarian violence across Iraq. The U.S. must learn from our past mistakes; we must halt the irresponsible training and equipping of fighters in Iraq." Since the start of the Iraq War in March of 2003, the U.S. has invested over $19 billion in training and equipping of Iraq security forces personnel, including $133 million for the purchase and transfer of over 370,000 small arms. Neither the Department of Defense nor the Government of Iraq can determine how many of the nearly 350,000 personnel trained by U.S. lead forces are still serving in the Iraqi security forces, and whether such personnel have been properly vetted or trained. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chair and Co-founder of the 76-Member "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus, was an original co-sponsor of the ‘No Permanent Bases' bill that passed the House by a wide margin. H.R. 2929 prohibits the establishment of permanent military bases in Iraq and the U.S. exercise of control over Iraqi oil resources. On Wednesday, the U.S. House of Representatives voted 399-24 to pass H.R. 2929, banning permanent bases in Iraq. Rep. Waters said "the overwhelming, bi-partisan vote to ban permanent bases in Iraq sent a strong message to other nations around the world, to the people of Iraq, and to President Bush. Our presence in Iraq is not to be a permanent occupation - and it cannot be perceived that way. The responsibility for the security of Iraq will ultimately fall on the shoulders of Iraq and its neighbors." The goals of this legislation are strongly endorsed by the findings of the Iraq Study Group. Amongst the recommendations were the suggestions that "the President should state that the United States does not seek permanent military bases in Iraq," and "the President should restate that the United States does not seek to control Iraq's oil." Unfortunately, the actions of the Bush Administration often run counter to this sensible proposal. Rep. Waters said "A large percentage of Iraqi citizens believe the United States invaded Iraq to gain access to Iraqi oil. By constructing a fortress-like embassy and demanding passage of an Oil law that will open Iraqi oil fields up to American Corporations, the Bush administration has reinforced their fears. This perception fuels resentment against our troops and contributes to the ongoing violence. The legislation we passed today is a step in the right direction, but our work is not complete until we redeploy every last American troop from Iraq." ###
07.30.2009	Today, U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), chair and co-founder of the ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus, hosted a press conference calling for the end of funding for the Iraqi Security Forces. This is an excerpt of her statement to the press: "Much of the Administration's justification for continued military involvement in Iraq rests on the premise that the Iraqi Security Forces will soon be able to control the violence in Iraq and replace American troops. Unfortunately, this is a dangerous assumption. "The ISF will not be capable of taking responsibility for their nation's security, and will not be able to replace American troops on the ground. Without a unifying central government to which a majority of Iraqis are loyal, we are merely training different factions of a violent power struggle. "More importantly, by continuing to train and equip Iraqis, we risk the danger that weapons provided to them will one day be turned against the United States and our allies in the region. Saddam Hussein and Osama bin Laden were both supported and equipped by the United States in the past, under very similar circumstances. How can we be sure we are not putting guns into the hands of a future enemy and empowering them for generations to come? "In fact, there is already widespread evidence of sectarian infiltration of the Iraqi Security Forces. Iraqi Police and military personnel have been alleged to be involved in death squads, extrajudicial killings and kidnappings throughout Iraq. American guns given to the ISF- 190,000 of which have been lost, according to an August GAO report- are now showing up in Turkey, having been used in violent crimes. Six of the 18 benchmarks for progress in Iraq ask for improvement from the ISF, but according to the report by the Comptroller General of the GAO released yesterday, all six of these benchmarks have failed. "I have recently introduced legislation that will effectively address this problem. H.R. 3134, the Responsible Security in Iraq Act, would prohibit the use of federal funds for the training and equipping of Iraqi security forces and Iraqi civilians. This is a simple and commonsense response to President Bush's misguided policies, and I hope all of my colleagues will rally around the idea. "The training and equipping of Iraq Security Forces is not a case of a good idea put into practice poorly. Plain and simply, this is a bad policy. Continuing to train and equip the Iraqi Security Forces and sectarian fighters is a dangerous practice that must be halted. Policy makers have to confront the consequences of raising a military in a failed state, and must resist adding further fuel to the fire that is raging in Iraq." Since the start of the Iraq War in March of 2003, the U.S. has invested over $19 billion in training and equipping of ISF personnel, including the purchase and transfer of over 370,000 small arms. Neither the Department of Defense nor the Government of Iraq can determine how many of the nearly 360,000 personnel trained by U.S.-lead forces are still serving in the ISF, and whether such personnel have been properly vetted or trained. ###
07.30.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chair and Co-Founder of the ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus, released the following statement in reaction to the testimony to Congress from General Petraeus: Rep. Waters said, "President Bush has found his newest messenger in General David Petraeus. While we in Congress respect General Petraeus' service to our country, it is our duty call into question his findings showing progress in Iraq. General Petraeus' suggestion that the surge is working runs in direct contradiction with other official reports, the opinion of the American people, and the overwhelming majority of the Iraqi people themselves. "General Petraeus claims that there has been a decrease in violence and an increase political reconciliation in Iraq, but his findings are not supported by other recent reports on either subject. The latest reports from the General Accountability Office, the National Intelligence Estimate, and General Jones' independent review of the Iraqi Security Forces all describe an increasingly grim outlook for the military involvement in Iraq. "By Petraeus' own admission, there is no military solution to the conflict in Iraq. The entire premise of the ‘surge' strategy was to provide breathing room so that political reconciliation could occur. With nearly half of the Cabinet officials refusing to participate in the Iraqi government, and nearly all Sunni members boycotting parliament, the very legitimacy of the Government of Iraq must be called in to question. "Because the Iraqi people see our military as an occupying force in Iraq, our presence in Iraq is actually making the situation worse. In fact, seventy percent of Iraqis interviewed in a recent survey said security has worsened where the added U.S. forces were sent. Very simply, the longer we stay in Iraq, the worse the situation will be when we leave. "In repeated cross examination, General Petraeus admitted his responsibility was only to the military operation in Iraq, and not to our national security interests as a whole. The U.S. must redeploy our forces from Iraq and focus our efforts on matters of U.S. national security, including the hunt for bin Laden and the protection of our homeland. The only responsible strategy for Iraq is to fully fund the safe and timely redeployment of all U.S. troops and military contractors from Iraq." ###
07.30.2009	Today, U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), chair and co-founder of the ‘Out of Iraq' Congressional Caucus, released this statement following reports of increased violence in Iraq: "Over the past two days, 9 U.S. troops have been killed in combat in Iraq. My deepest sympathies go out to the families of those whose lives were cut short while bravely serving our country. The troops in Iraq have performed honorably and expertly under the most difficult of circumstances and continue to prove why the men and women of the United States military are the most capable in the world. "The most recent spate of killings should serve as a warning to President Bush and those who are claiming the success of the surge. We cannot allow our policy makers, the media, or the American people to be lulled in to complacency with our policies in Iraq and assume that the surge in troop levels has solved our problems. "Our troop's lives are still at great risk, and the military is being strained toward its breaking point. We still do not have an effective strategy to protect our soldiers from Improvised Explosive Devices, and we have come up short on nearly every benchmark for political progress. Our presence in Iraq is widely viewed as an occupation, and is deeply resented by a large majority of the Iraqi people. "The President's tactics ignore the fact that there is no military solution to the problems in Iraq. Conditions for success in Iraq have never been identified and no plan for withdrawal has been presented. Many observers have concluded that instead of acknowledging the obstacles we face in Iraq, the President intends only to run out the clock on his tenure in the Oval Office and pass the chaos he created along to the next Administration. "We must stay firmly in touch with the reality that Iraq is and will remain a very dangerous place. The longer our military remains stuck in Iraq's civil war, the harder it becomes for competing Iraqi factions to accept eventual compromises necessary for reconciliation and peace. In the absence of political reconciliation, instability in Iraq will not subside. "I remain committed to the position that our number one goal should be to bring our troops home from Iraq. For the sake of our country, we should not detour from that mission. We must provide the necessary planning and funding for this to be done as safely, securely and swiftly as possible. I hope we don't have to endure the loss of another American life in Iraq." ###
07.30.2009	Today, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates announced the early resignation of Admiral William J. Fallon, the commander of American Forces in the Middle East. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement in response: "I would like to first thank Admiral Fallon for his 41 years of service and commitment to our country. Admiral Fallon, a decorated veteran of the Vietnam War and a former vice chief of naval operations, became the first four-star Navy Admiral named to Central Command when he was confirmed by the Senate last year. It was said that Admiral Fallon's appointment to this position reflected the need for an experienced leader to oversee tensions with Iran and existing wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. "Unfortunately, Admiral Fallon has been at odds with the Bush Administration for his dissenting views on regional policy. It seems that Admiral Fallon's resignation was directly influenced by his advocacy for increased troop withdrawals from Iraq, diplomacy with Iran instead of military intervention, and for suggesting that the War in Iraq was distracting the U.S. from more important concerns. "His retirement is yet another example of the Administration's inability to stomach expert opinion that differs from its own views. Admiral Fallon's dissent seemed to have touched a nerve with the President's unwillingness to accept disagreement. The fundamental flaw in the President's vision of the Middle East, which Admiral Fallon seems to have suggested, is his inability to recognize that there is no military solution to the problems of Iraq or Iran. "The truth is that the President is more interested in protecting his own legacy than in a policy that actually addresses our national security interests. After almost five years of occupation, nearly 4,000 Americans killed, and hundreds of billions of dollars spent, we know that it is time for this Administration to accept a new direction in Iraq. Opening up a new front with a war against Iran is a dangerous proposition that must be avoided. It is time to end the President's militaristic policies toward the Middle East and bring our troops home." ###
07.30.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman and co-founder of the Out of Iraq Congressional Caucus, issued the following remarks on the 5th anniversary of the start of the war in Iraq. It has been over five years since President Bush's war in Iraq began—longer even than World War II. At the time the war began in March of 2003, who would have thought we were being led into perhaps the worst foreign policy disaster in America's history? Well, I certainly had a pretty good idea when I urged my colleagues to oppose the authorization for war on October 7, of 2002. Many of us voted against the war authorization in the first place, and many more Members wish they had voted against it. But here we are, five years later, saddled with a seemingly endless war in Iraq that continues to drain the lifeblood of this country. As Chairwoman and co-founder of the Out of Iraq Congressional Caucus, I know that the American people have long since turned against this war. Americans know that when our military invaded Iraq, we opened up Pandora's Box and unleashed countless tragedies onto the Iraqi people and the region. These tragedies are all the more deplorable because we were brought into the war with propaganda, manipulation, and flat out lies. The power vacuum we have created has allowed a violent insurgency to break out in Iraq—some have even suggested civil war—as various factions fight for power. In five years, nearly 4,000 American men and women in uniform have been killed in Iraq, and tens of thousands more have been seriously injured. Military experts tell us that years of full-paced war have left our all-volunteer military overstretched and nearing its breaking point. Many political leaders have claimed that the "surge strategy" has been a success. The American military has been assigned the duty of policing the streets of Iraq, and it is performing admirably under difficult conditions. But, does anyone really believe the dip in violence created by the presence of 160,000 highly trained American troops is a sustainable strategy for stability in Iraq? In reality, the surge has done nothing to address the reasons for the violence in Iraq in the first place. Meaningful political reconciliation has been nonexistent, and regional leaders are still violently competing for power. The destruction caused by years of war has decimated an Iraqi society that was once educated, culturally progressive, and wealthy. Some studies suggest that 600,000 Iraqis have died since the U.S. invasion. As many as 4.5 million Iraqis have fled their homes to escape the violence with perhaps half having become refugees in neighboring countries. Forty-three percent of Iraqis suffer from "absolute poverty" and an estimated 80% of Iraqis lack access to effective sanitation. If ignored, the role of "protector and provider" of these desperate populations may be provided by sectarian actors in the pattern of Hamas or Hezbollah. Iraq's neighbors were sympathetic and supportive of the U.S.'s efforts to weed out terrorists following the attacks of September 11th, but have been pushed toward extremism by the perception of an American occupation at their borders. Our short-sighted and arrogant foreign policy has left the United States in very low regard on the world stage, especially in the Middle East. The war has already cost over $535 billion in direct spending, and a Nobel Prize winning economist has suggested it will likely end up costing our economy trillions. The war has siphoned away precious resources that should have been invested domestically on affordable housing, healthcare, education, infrastructure, and homeland security. The cascade of problems created by our invasion of the Middle East is truly heartbreaking. But, as bad as the situation is right now in Iraq, it is not enough to merely point out all the mistakes President Bush has made throughout the course of his Administration. We must offer a better vision for the challenges we face, and that is exactly what I have done. I am pushing for legislation requiring a safe redeployment of our troops and military contractors from Iraq. There is no military solution to the problems of Iraq, but American diplomatic and humanitarian engagement in the Middle East is necessary for the long term recovery and stability of the war-torn region. It is long past time for someone inside the U.S. government to be put in charge of this effort. That is why I recently introduced H.R. 5488, The Recovery and Stability of Iraq Act. This legislation would address the growing crisis confronting the Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons by creating an Iraqi Displacement Coordinator in the Executive Office of the President. The Coordinator would with work with Iraq and other regional actors to create a long-term, comprehensive, and durable strategy to address the humanitarian crisis. By focusing our energy on this front, the United States can begin to stabilize the Middle East and rebuild our international credibility. On this fifth anniversary of the war, we should reflect on the incredible sacrifices our troops are making, and the great suffering of the Iraqi people. The five-year anniversary of War in Iraq is a sobering reminder of lives lost and the failures of leadership that have been exhibited over the course of President Bush's tenure. However, that the anniversary coincides with the most exciting presidential election in recent memory should be a reminder of the importance of re-engaging the political process. Our disappointment with the current direction of our country should inspire us to become more politically active, not less. The only responsible option for Iraq is to end the war as safely and quickly as possible and bring our troops home, and we must hold our elected officials accountable to this reality. Together, let's work to bring our troops home to their families as soon as possible and refocus this country's resources on the issues that matter the most to the American people. ###
07.30.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to President Bush expressing deep concern over the plight of displaced Iraqis. The letter was led by Rep. Maxine Waters, Armed Services Chairman Ike Skelton, Foreign Affairs Middle East and South Asia Subcommittee Chairman Gary Ackerman, Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe Chairman Alcee Hastings, Representatives Barbara Lee and Lynn Woolsey, and was signed by 83 other Members of Congress from both political parties. Rep. Waters said, "This letter sends a strong message that Congress is committed to addressing the humanitarian crisis confronting Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons. The displacement crisis will get worse if ignored and we look forward to the President's support as we work to address this issue." The text of the letter is as follows: President George W. Bush The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We are writing to express our deep concern over the plight of displaced Iraqis. Rarely does confronting a crisis align our moral and national security interests as closely as does providing assistance to the Iraqis displaced by violence. There are few more important tests of our foreign policy than our leadership in response to the growing crisis confronting the displaced population of Iraq. Recent reports suggest that upwards of 14% of the population of Iraq is displaced; 2.4 million Iraqis are internally displaced, while nearly that many refugees have fled to neighboring countries. Their conditions are increasingly desperate as they lack access to employment, health care, or schools. Experts suggest that if the international community does not step in to help, the role of "protector and provider" may be provided by sectarian actors in the pattern of Hamas or Hezbollah. As you know, failure to adequately confront the humanitarian crisis radiating from Iraq may spell disaster for the region. An aggressive effort to develop sustainable, long-term strategies to address the displaced population is badly needed. We commend your recent appointment of Ambassador James Foley as the Senior Coordinator for Iraqi Refugee and Internally Displaced Persons as an indication of your commitment to this issue. As such, we welcome your response to the following pressing questions related to the future of the displaced Iraqi population, and request a briefing on the subject from a relevant Administration official: What is the long term strategy for handling the eventual return or resettlement of refugees and internally displaced Iraqis? How does the plan address issues of repatriation, resettlement and return of displaced Iraqis? Is there a mechanism for settling property disputes in Iraq? What is the current capacity of the Government of Iraq— particularly the Iraqi Ministry of Displacement and Migration— to handle these issues from a financial, political and planning perspective? To what extent are we coordinating with the Government of Iraq and regional refugee-hosting countries on this issue? The non-partisan Congressional Research Service said "The impact of this level of displacement— which is the largest in the Middle East since 1948— cannot be underestimated in terms of its impact on regional stability and the potential for humanitarian suffering." We look forward to working with you in the coming months to ensure the world's utmost attention to the problems facing the Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons. Thank you for your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Ike Skelton Gary L. Ackerman Alcee L. Hastings Barbara Lee Lynn C. Woolsey Brian Baird Tammy Baldwin Shelley Berkley Howard L. Berman Sen. Bernard Sanders Timothy H. Bishop Earl Blumenauer G. K. Butterfield Madeleine Z. Bordallo Leonard L. Boswell Lois Capps Michael E. Capuano Wm. Lacy Clay John Conyers, Jr. Joseph Crowley Joe Courtney Elijah E. Cummings Danny K. Davis Susan A. Davis Jim McDermott Peter A. DeFazio William D. Delahunt Rosa L. DeLauro Lloyd Doggett Michael F. Doyle Keith Ellison Sam Farr Chaka Fattah Bob Filner Barney Frank Trent Franks Raúl M. Grijalva Maurice D. Hinchey Mazie K. Hirono Rush D. Holt Chris Van Hollen Michael M. Honda Steve Israel Jesse L. Jackson, Jr. Sheila Jackson Lee William J. Jefferson Henry C. Johnson Carolyn C. Kilpatrick Dennis J. Kucinich James R. Langevin John B. Larson John Lewis Zoe Lofgren Steven F. Lynch Carolyn B. Maloney Edward J. Markey James P. McGovern Gwen Moore James P. Moran Jerrold Nadler Grace F. Napolitano Eleanor Holmes Norton John W. Olver James L. Oberstar Ed Pastor Donald M. Payne Ed Perlmutter Joseph R. Pitts Carol Shea-Porter David E. Price David G. Reichert Silvestre Reyes Steven R. Rothman Bobby L. Rush Linda T. Sánchez Janice D. Schakowsky John P. Sarbanes Robert C. Scott Christopher Shays Albio Sires Adam Smith Fortney "Pete" Stark Betty Sutton Ellen O. Tauscher Edolphus Towns Peter Welch Robert Wexler Albert Russell Wynn ###
07.30.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman and co-founder of the Out of Iraq Congressional Caucus, gave the following remarks at a Helsinki Commission hearing focused on the growing Iraqi refugee crisis: Let me first thank Chairman Hastings for his kindness in allowing me to join this important hearing today. This is an extremely important issue, and it hasn't been getting as much attention as it deserves. As such, I'd like to commend Mr. Hastings for his leadership on this matter. With the support of Chairman Hastings, I recently sent a letter to President Bush, signed by 89 Members of Congress, expressing our deep concern over the plight of displaced Iraqis. In this letter, we stated: Rarely does confronting a crisis align our moral and national security interests as closely as does providing assistance to the Iraqis displaced by violence. There are few more important tests of our foreign policy than our leadership in response to the growing crisis confronting the displaced population of Iraq. I hope that this letter to President Bush will continue the process that we are taking part in today of addressing the plight of the millions of refugees and internally displaced persons whose lives have been scattered around the Middle East. The millions of Iraqis displaced from their homes by violence are becoming increasingly desperate. Many do not have access to even the most basic resources, including food, water, and health care. In some instances, women are reportedly turning to prostitution to provide for their families. I wanted to briefly mention some legislation I have recently introduced. H.R. 5488, The Recovery and Stability of Iraq Act, would address the growing crisis confronting the displaced population of Iraq by: -Creating an Iraqi Displacement Coordinator in the Executive Office of the President, to engage U.S. diplomatic resources in addressing the crisis. -Requiring the Coordinator to create a long-term, durable strategy to address the displacement crisis. -Requiring the Coordinator to harmonize international efforts to address the crisis. -Encouraging affected governments to support their own populations. -Requiring a report from the Coordinator on the progress of the strategy and an evaluation of the conditions confronting the displaced. It is clear that any solution to the problems in Iraq must include an organized effort to return the displaced Iraqis to a safe and stable environment. This bill will not force refugees to return against their will; rather, it begins the long planning process necessary to prepare for eventual voluntary returns of Iraqis. The creation of the high-level Iraqi Displacement Coordinator would send a strong signal that the United States is committed to working with the governments of the region to address the humanitarian crisis. Allow me to thank our witnesses, and again thank the Chairman of this hearing. I very much look forward to working with the Administration in this coming year, as well as with my fellow Members of Congress, to appropriately address the Iraqi displacement crisis. ###
07.30.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) highlighted the Iraqi refugee crisis by co-hosting a photo exhibit this evening on Capitol Hill with Reps. Alcee Hastings, Barbara Lee, and Lynn Woolsey. The exhibit featured the work of Gabriela Bulisova, a documentary film photographer and adjunct professor at the Corcoran College of Art and Design who recently returned from Iraq and Syria, where she captured images of Iraqi refugees. Moved by the power of Ms. Bulisova's photos, Congresswoman Waters applauded her for putting a human face on this humanitarian crisis. "It is said that ‘a picture is worth a thousand words', but today, Gabriela's pictures represent the words of the millions of Iraqis who have been displaced from their homes by the violence tormenting Iraq," Congresswoman Waters said. More than 5 million Iraqis – 1 in 5 of the entire country's population – are now either displaced within Iraq or living abroad as refugees according to the International Organization for Migration. Noting that Ms. Bulisova believes in "art's vital potential for education, influence and change", Congresswoman Waters emphasized the importance of taking that final step – changing U.S. policy in order to meet the needs of Iraqi refugees. "Many Iraqi refugees express no hope of ever being able to return to their homes, and hopelessness is a recipe for disaster. It is long past time for the United States to mobilize our considerable diplomatic and humanitarian resources to assist the displaced population of Iraq," said Congresswoman Waters, who recently introduced legislation on this issue. The Recovery and Stability of Iraq Act (H.R. 5488) addresses the growing crisis of Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons by creating an Iraqi Displacement Coordinator in the Executive Office of the President. The high-level Coordinator would lead the U.S. effort to work with Iraq and other regional actors to create a long-term, comprehensive, and durable strategy to solve the displacement crisis. In addition to the Members of Congress who spoke at the event tonight, Ken Bacon, President of Refugees International (RI), updated the audience on this humanitarian crisis. RI recently released a report entitled, "Uprooted and Unstable: Meeting Urgent Humanitarian Needs in Iraq." Ms. Aseel Albanna, an Iraqi-American who was born and raised in Baghdad and is the Co-Founder and Coordinator of Iraqi Voices for Peace, a non-profit organization dedicated to helping meet the basic human needs of Iraqi refugees and displaced persons, also spoke. More information about photographer Gabriela Bulisova is available at www.photoshelter.com/user/gabrielabulisova ###
07.30.2009	Today, the Out of Iraq Caucus held a press conference to discuss their opposition to the impending Iraq war supplemental funding bill. The press conference was hosted by the Chair of the Out of Iraq Caucus Rep. Maxine Waters, with co-founders Barbara Lee and Lynn Woolsey. Other Members were in attendance, as well as representatives from anti-war peace organizations. Rep. Waters released the following statement: "The war supplemental package to be voted on soon is unacceptable. This package will give President Bush a $170 billion check to continue pursuing his mismanaged and misguided adventure in Iraq as he sees fit. "While I expect there to be some language contained in this package that I support, the American people are demanding a real change in policy toward Iraq, and they demand more from Congress than what we are to vote on today. We cannot abdicate our constitutional oversight responsibility over the Administration's war. "As we begin our sixth year of war, this supplemental bill for the war does not do enough to end the war. This bill does not do enough because there are more American troops in Iraq than when the surge began almost a year and a half ago while we are told that our military is stretched to its breaking point. This bill does not do enough because 52 Americans were killed in Iraq in April, making it the deadliest month since September '07. This bill does not do enough because we are already spending $245 million a day in Iraq. This bill does not do enough because it ignores the 5 million Iraqi refugees and internally displaced persons. This bill does not do enough because over a hundred thousand military contractors remain above the law in Iraq. This bill does not do enough because it doesn't begin to encourage reconciliation among the Iraqi people. "Most glaringly, this bill does not do enough because it does not recognize that there is no military solution to the problems of Iraq. We cannot continue to referee an Iraqi civil war. "Instead of fully funding President Bush's war request, we should fully fund the withdrawal of our military from Iraq, and bring our troops home safe and sound. I cannot in good conscience support legislation that will continue funding the war in Iraq without a significant change in policy. I cannot support this supplemental. The only acceptable solution remains the fully funded redeployment of all of our troops and military contractors from Iraq." ###
07.30.2009	Today, the House of Representatives voted on the Iraq War Supplemental Appropriations bill. Rep. Waters released the following statement: "As Chairwoman and co-founder of the Out of Iraq Congressional Caucus, I have stood in strong opposition to the war in Iraq—and have offered constructive alternatives—at every juncture. "Working with my colleagues Reps. Barbara Lee and Lynn Woolsey, I have promoted and advocated for a new policy. Today, I testified in front of the House Rules Committee in support of bringing three amendments to consideration of the House. The first was the Lee Amendment, which would direct funds solely for safe redeployment of our troops from Iraq instead of providing President Bush with yet another blank check. The second was the Woolsey Amendment, which would provide funding for the U.S. Institute of Peace to conduct reconciliation activities inside of Iraq. The last was the Waters Amendment, which would address the Iraqi refugee crisis by exerting U.S. leadership and diplomatic intervention. "Our three amendments mapped out a progressive, positive path forward for US policy in Iraq which stands in stark contrast to Bush's agenda of permanent military occupation. The American people are demanding a real change in policy toward Iraq, and they demand more from Congress than what we are to vote on today. Unfortunately, our amendments were not allowed, and the House did not choose to fundamentally change U.S. policy in Iraq. Instead, a majority of the House voted to give President Bush a $170 billion check to continue pursuing his mismanaged and misguided adventure in Iraq as he sees fit. "After over five years of war in Iraq, over 4,100 Americans killed, over 30,000 Americans wounded, over $500 billion spent, perhaps over 600,000 Iraqis killed and nearly 5 million displaced, the only responsible solution is to end the occupation in Iraq and engage diplomatically rather than militarily. Congress has the constitutional responsibility to exercise oversight of the Executive Branch, and by abdicating this role we risk being judged accomplices to the worst foreign policy mistake of our generation. "Despite the setback today, I will not rest until we end the war in Iraq and bring the last servicemember home." ###
07.30.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), chair of the Out of Iraq Caucus, today renewed her call on President Bush to redeploy American troops and military contractors from Iraq in a letter to the President and in a newly introduced resolution, H. Res. 1326. The resolution, H. Res. 1326, Calling on the President to Respect and Honor Iraqi's Sovereignty, and the letter, delivered today, were coauthored by Reps. Waters, Woolsey and Lee. The introduced resolution, H. Res. 1326, calls for the President to respect Iraq's sovereignty and redeploy our military if asked to do so by the Government of Iraq – as President Bush previously pledged to do – and to present a plan to Congress for how this will be carried out. Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki expressed support for this position this week, calling for a timetable for redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq to be included in the security agreement being pushed by the Bush Administration. Iraq's national security adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, said "We will not accept a memorandum of understanding without having timeline horizons for the cessation of combat operations as well as the departure of all the combat brigades." Rep. Waters said, "I am pleased to see that the Government of Iraq has risen in support of our position that a timetable is needed for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. I call on President Bush to end the war in Iraq and bring our troops home. Otherwise, as many of us have feared, President Bush and his supporters' vision of an ‘enduring relationship' with Iraq amounts only to an endless and unlimited military occupation in the Middle East." The text of the letter is as follows, and the resolution is attached: July 9, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20502 Dear Mr. President: We write to you to reiterate our strong support for setting a timeline for the redeployment of our troops from Iraq. As you are surely aware, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has risen in support of this position, calling for a timetable for redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq to be included in the security agreement currently being negotiated. He said "The direction we are taking is to have a memorandum of understanding either for the departure of the forces or to have a timetable for their withdrawal." Further, his National Security Adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, has said "We will not accept a memorandum of understanding without having timeline horizons for the cessation of combat operations as well as the departure of all the combat brigades." On May 24, 2007 you stated, "We are there at the invitation of the Iraqi government. This is a sovereign nation. Twelve million people went to the polls to approve a constitution. It's their government's choice. If they were to say, leave, we would leave." We are calling on you to honor your commitment to respect Iraq's sovereignty and redeploy our military when we are asked to by the Government of Iraq. Otherwise, our military presence amounts to an open-ended occupation of Iraq, particularly as seen through the eyes of Iraq's neighbors in the Middle East. In stating your opposition to a redeployment timetable for our military in Iraq, you will be disregarding the wishes of the American public, the will of Congress, and the Iraqi people, who all favor setting a timetable for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. The fact is that there is no military solution to the problems we face in Iraq. This war has cost more than 4,100 American lives, wounded hundreds of thousands of our troops, cost the lives of perhaps hundreds of thousands of Iraqis and displaced millions. Meanwhile, the war in Iraq has cost taxpayers trillions of dollars. Continuing to spend $10 billion a month in Iraq while American families continue to struggle to make ends meet is a case of misplaced priorities. Instead of coercing Iraq into signing a long term security agreement—without the approval of the U.S. Congress—we urge you to fully fund the redeployment of our military from Iraq, and bring our troops home safe and sound. This remains the only acceptable solution to the problems we face in Iraq. We must support Prime Minister Maliki and the people in Iraq in their quest for full sovereignty. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, -- Maxine Waters, Lynn Woolsey, Barbara Lee Members of Congress ###
07.30.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), chair of the Out of Iraq Caucus, today renewed her call on President Bush to redeploy American troops and military contractors from Iraq in a letter to the President and in a newly introduced resolution, H. Res. 1326. The resolution, H. Res. 1326, Calling on the President to Respect and Honor Iraqi's Sovereignty, and the letter, delivered today, were coauthored by Reps. Waters, Woolsey and Lee. The introduced resolution, H. Res. 1326, calls for the President to respect Iraq's sovereignty and redeploy our military if asked to do so by the Government of Iraq – as President Bush previously pledged to do – and to present a plan to Congress for how this will be carried out. Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki expressed support for this position this week, calling for a timetable for redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq to be included in the security agreement being pushed by the Bush Administration. Iraq's national security adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, said "We will not accept a memorandum of understanding without having timeline horizons for the cessation of combat operations as well as the departure of all the combat brigades." Rep. Waters said, "I am pleased to see that the Government of Iraq has risen in support of our position that a timetable is needed for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. I call on President Bush to end the war in Iraq and bring our troops home. Otherwise, as many of us have feared, President Bush and his supporters' vision of an ‘enduring relationship' with Iraq amounts only to an endless and unlimited military occupation in the Middle East." The text of the letter is as follows: July 9, 2008 The Honorable George W. Bush President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20502 Dear Mr. President: We write to you to reiterate our strong support for setting a timeline for the redeployment of our troops from Iraq. As you are surely aware, Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki has risen in support of this position, calling for a timetable for redeployment of U.S. forces from Iraq to be included in the security agreement currently being negotiated. He said "The direction we are taking is to have a memorandum of understanding either for the departure of the forces or to have a timetable for their withdrawal." Further, his National Security Adviser, Mowaffak al-Rubaie, has said "We will not accept a memorandum of understanding without having timeline horizons for the cessation of combat operations as well as the departure of all the combat brigades." On May 24, 2007 you stated, "We are there at the invitation of the Iraqi government. This is a sovereign nation. Twelve million people went to the polls to approve a constitution. It's their government's choice. If they were to say, leave, we would leave." We are calling on you to honor your commitment to respect Iraq's sovereignty and redeploy our military when we are asked to by the Government of Iraq. Otherwise, our military presence amounts to an open-ended occupation of Iraq, particularly as seen through the eyes of Iraq's neighbors in the Middle East. In stating your opposition to a redeployment timetable for our military in Iraq, you will be disregarding the wishes of the American public, the will of Congress, and the Iraqi people, who all favor setting a timetable for the redeployment of U.S. troops from Iraq. The fact is that there is no military solution to the problems we face in Iraq. This war has cost more than 4,100 American lives, wounded hundreds of thousands of our troops, cost the lives of perhaps hundreds of thousands of Iraqis and displaced millions. Meanwhile, the war in Iraq has cost taxpayers trillions of dollars. Continuing to spend $10 billion a month in Iraq while American families continue to struggle to make ends meet is a case of misplaced priorities. Instead of coercing Iraq into signing a long term security agreement—without the approval of the U.S. Congress—we urge you to fully fund the redeployment of our military from Iraq, and bring our troops home safe and sound. This remains the only acceptable solution to the problems we face in Iraq. We must support Prime Minister Maliki and the people in Iraq in their quest for full sovereignty. Thank you for your consideration of our request. Sincerely, Maxine Waters, Lynn Woolsey, Barbara Lee Members of Congress ###
07.30.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman and co-founder of the Out of Iraq Congressional Caucus, issued the following remarks in advance of House consideration of the Defense Authorization for FY 2009, which authorizes nearly $70 billion in emergency war funding: The Defense Authorization for FY 2009 to be voted on today under suspension of the rules is unacceptable. This package will give President Bush an additional $70 billion to continue the war in Iraq as he sees fit. We cannot give another blank check for the President's war that the taxpayers just can't cash. The timing for this additional funding could not be worse. American taxpayers are facing a $700 billion bailout package to stem the crisis in the financial markets which has threatened to wipe out their savings, their homes and their jobs. In May, Congress granted President Bush's request for $170 billion in war funding that was supposed to last well into next year. And last month, the Government Accountability Office reported that Iraq will generate an estimated $86 billion revenue surplus this year, primarily driven by the high price of oil being paid by Americans and others. ###
07.27.2009	U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters (35th-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing, Community Opportunity, released the following statement on the recent Subcommittee field hearing chaired by subcommittee chairman Rep. Bob Ney (R-OH) in Los Angeles concerning the President's proposed cuts to the CDBG program which funds programs for seniors, families and children. "My colleagues and I are deeply troubled by the proposed cuts to CDBG," said Rep. Waters, "by acquiescing to these cuts, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is abdicating its responsibility to communities nationwide that depend on these funds." In engaging one of the witnesses, HUD Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Pamela Patenaude with questions, Rep. Waters said, "not only is this Administration proposing to cut CDBG, but it is doing so without an explanation as to how it arrived at an astounding 20% cut." Rep. Waters continued, "the President continues to attack successful programs like CDBG and Brownfields mitigation - which are aimed at cleaning up environmentally unsafe areas and the HOME program - which assists low and moderate income families with homeownership opportunities." The hearing was attended by more than 700 Californians representing over 100 productive CDBG funded programs. Many of the attendees expressed dismay at the proposed cuts and asserted that the cuts would either severely weaken or completely destroy their programs. "Many of these programs are extremely beneficial to our community," said Rep. Waters, "these programs provide, low and moderate income housing, economic development, gang reduction and job training. CDBG funded programs, which require 70% of the funds be spent on activities to benefit low and moderate income persons, and upon which our community rely in day-to-day activities, include: Big Brother & Big Sisters of Gtr. Los Angeles – Mentor Outreach, Community Development Commission – Single Family Grant Program, Jr. Blind of America – Infant Family Project, Los Angeles County Department of Consumer Affairs – Homeowners Fraud Prevention Project, Gang Membership, Vandalism, and Illegal Nuisance Dumping Reduction Program, Watts Labor Community Action Committee, and Community Build. "CDBG is a program that benefits all of America and is popular with both Republicans and Democrats. This program has proven effective in the most rural of areas such as the one represented by Chairman Ney and the most urban areas like mine, the 35th district of California. Unfortunately, the President's proposed cuts are just the latest example of this Administration disregard for the will of Congress and the American people. Congresswoman Waters, along with Subcommittee Chairman Bob Ney, vowed to organize staunch opposition to the President's proposed cuts and hope that they will be able to convince their colleagues to reject them because they would severely harm America. The witness list for the hearing was as follows: The Honorable Pamela Patenaude, Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development; The Honorable Robert Ovrom, Deputy Mayor, Housing & Economic Development, City of Los Angeles, CA; The Honorable Yvonne Braithwaite Burke, District 2, Member, Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors; The Honorable Eric Garcetti, District 13, President, Los Angeles City Council; The Honorable Roosevelt F. Dorn, Mayor, City of Inglewood, CA; The Honorable Harold Hofmann, Mayor, City of Lawndale, CA; Mr. Clifford Graves, General Manager, Department of Community Development, City of Los Angeles, CA; Mr. Carlos Jackson, Executive Director, Los Angeles County Community Development Commission; Ms. Brenda Shockley, President, Community Build, Inc.; Ms. Marva Smith Battle-Bey, President and CEO, Vermont Slauson Economic Development Corporation; and, Mr. Al Jenkins, Project Manager, Community Redevelopment Agency/Los Angeles. ###
07.27.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (35th-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, led major efforts last week that will create businesses and jobs in hundreds of communities and provide safe, affordable housing for millions of low income individuals across the United States. The housing and community development initiatives were so important and far reaching that members of Congress worked in a bipartisan manner to save the Section 108 Loan Guarantee Program from the budget chopping block. Rep. Waters introduced the amendment to save this program, and it passed in the House by vote of 218 to 207. The Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (H.R. 5443), also sponsored by Rep. Waters, passed the financial services committee and is now headed to the House floor consideration. This bill would implement major reform to assist the residents of low-income housing, successfully. (Details on the other programs are listed below.) "By voting to save the Section 108 Loan Guarantee Program, Congress proved—in a bipartisan way—that economic development is the cornerstone of long-term, sustained job creation," said Representative Waters. "And, with the help of the Housing Subcommittee, Congress has moved Section 8 Voucher reform one step closer to assisting low-income families in need of affordable, safe place to live. Last week, we were able to do a lot of good things for this nation." The housing and economic development initiatives Rep. Waters championed last week included: Section 8 Voucher Program Reauthorization and Reform: The bill aims to make the Section 8 voucher program more efficient, easier to administer, and more capable of promoting economic self-sufficiency. Rep. Waters is a primary sponsor of this legislation, which was cleared to move to the House Floor for a final vote. Mark-to-Market: This program will save the federal government money by adjusting the amount of rent, which is often well above market rates, paid to property owners who lease their properties to enrollees in the Section 8 program. The bill passed Committee and is expected to reach the floor of the House for final consideration. Section 108 Loan Guarantee Program: This program has granted over $35 billion in economic development seed money to 45 states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico over the last 10 years. Brownfields Economic Development Initiatives: Programs in this category will provide $15 million to clean up brownfield sites. Rep. Waters worked with the Republican sponsor of an amendment to ensure its passage. ###
07.27.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) and Rep. Robert Ney (OH-18) today overwhelmingly passed H.R. 5121, the "Expanding American Homeownership Act of 2006." The legislation received virtually unanimous support and passed in the House of Representatives by a vote of 415 to 7. H.R. 5121 will revitalize the 72-year-old U.S. Federal Housing Administration (FHA), enabling it to make home ownership more accessible to millions of moderate to low-income American families. "California has lost more than 120,000 FHA loans in the last six years and nearly 2,000 in the 35th Congressional district alone," said Representative Waters. "By modernizing FHA to compete in a 21st century lending market, Congress will reverse this alarming trend and make it possible for many first-time home buyers and low-to-moderate income families to purchase homes of their own." According to DataQuick Information Systems, the median cost of a home in the Los Angeles Metro Area is approximately $517,000, but, currently, the FHA can only work with loans up to about $363,000, leaving little wiggle room for aspiring home owners in the area to actually purchase homes. H.R. 5121 will increase loan limits in high cost areas like Los Angeles, making home ownership more accessible. Rep. Waters added, "This legislation is going to give Americans—especially the people of California—more flexibility. It is going to plant the dreams of homeownership on a solid foundation of reality, and instead of paying thousands of dollars a year in rent, more people will know the joy of taking that same money and putting it toward building equity in their own home." H.R. 5121 will: • Increase FHA loan limits in high cost areas • Remove the FHA cap on reverse mortgages used by seniors • Extend FHA mortgage terms from 30 years to 40 years • Expand the products offered by FHA, allowing it to serve more low and moderate income Homebuyers ###
07.27.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services' Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today hailed the decision by Judge Richard J. Leon of the Federal Court for the District of Columbia to restore housing assistance and pay back rent to thousands of Hurricane Katrina evacuees who were victims of the hurricanes. The Judge found that the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) had also denied the basic due process rights of thousands who were denied long-term housing benefits and utility assistance. "This is vindication for the beleaguered victims of the hurricanes in the Gulf Region," Rep. Waters said. "Not only were the evacuees victims of the storms, they became victims of the very federal agency that was supposed to be there to help them. The tragedy of the situation is that many of the evacuees are still without permanent housing." Rep. Waters added, "Management of one of the nation's worst disasters in a century was made even more intolerable for its victims because of FEMA's actions. For FEMA to have denied families long-term assistance with their rent and utility bills without a hearing was constitutionally unacceptable and reprehensible." The Congresswoman expressed concern that the Judge's order be implemented by FEMA immediately stating, "The victims of FEMA's unconstitutional actions have suffered enough and any further delay in restoring fairness in providing assistance to the victims of the hurricanes is intolerable. FEMA must not continue to waste taxpayer monies by failing to comply with the Judge's order." ###
07.27.2009	Representative Maxine Waters, Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, and Barney Frank, Chairman of the Financial Services Committee today introduced H.R. 1852, the "Expanding Homeownership Act of 2007." The bill will revitalize the Federal Home Administration (FHA), a provider of mortgage insurance to low and moderate income families seeking the American dream of homeownership. Chairwoman Waters called on her colleagues to pass this legislation quickly to return stability to the mortgage lending market. "There is growing evidence about the perils of the subprime lending market and the rise in foreclosures, with estimates as high as 2 million mortgage loan defaults predicted by years' end," said Chairwoman Waters. "Without a viable FHA, many low and moderate income borrowers are left with few safe and viable mortgage options." Specifically, the bill modernizes the FHA and brings it into the realities of the housing market in the 21st century by: * Increasing loan limits in high cost areas of the country like California, New York, and Massachusetts, where FHA has been driven from the market, forcing many borrowers to turn to high-cost financing and other non-traditional loan products. * Authorizing zero down and lower down payment FHA loans for homebuyers who could not otherwise make the down payment required under current FHA rules, to make FHA more consistent with other private sector loan products. * Directing FHA to underwrite to borrowers with higher credit risk than FHA currently serves that are still creditworthy to take out a mortgage loan, but are otherwise now being driven into the subprime loan market, with much higher mortgage rates. * Permanently eliminating the current statutory volume cap on FHA reverse mortgage loans to permit this program to meet the growing needs of home equity-rich and cash-poor seniors citizens that need help paying bills or needed home costs. In addition, the bill includes a number of important changes to the version of the bill that passed the House last year. First, it eliminates the fee hikes from last year's bill for borrowers that continue to make a down payment, scaling back the maximum upfront fee from 3% to 2.25%, and the maximum annual fee from 2% to .55%. These reductions would reduce FHA closing cost premiums for a hypothetical family buying a $300,000 home by $2,250, and annual fees over a five year period by over $20,000, compared to the bill enacted last year. The bill also adds a number of homebuyer protections not included in last year's bill for families taking out riskier zero down payment loans, and for borrowers who represent a higher credit risk. Specifically, the bill gives HUD authority to require pre-purchase counseling for riskier borrowers, requires a number of disclosures spelling out the costs and risks of zero down and lower down payment loans, and provides a borrower "opt-in" to receive notice of availability of counseling in the event a borrower falls behind in their loan payments. Finally, the bill includes a provision authorizing loan limit increases for FHA rental housing loans in high cost areas, where current FHA loan limits do not keep pace with local construction costs. ###
07.27.2009	The House Financial Services Committee today passed H.R. 1852, the "Expanding American Homeownership Act of 2007" introduced by Representative Maxine Waters, Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, and Barney Frank, Chairman of the Financial Services Committee. The bill would revitalize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) to restore its historical role in ensuring critically needed mortgage loans for low and middle income families by authorizing zero down payment loans, directing the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to serve higher risk borrowers who would otherwise turn to predatory and high priced mortgage loan alternatives, and by raising loan limits so that FHA can serve high cost housing markets. The bill now awaits a vote by the full House of Representatives. "The passage of this bill is a major step towards making FHA relevant again in today's unstable mortgage market where low and moderate income borrowers have been squeezed into unaffordable loan products with no safe options for refinancing, or for entering the housing market as first time, particularly in high cost areas of the country," said Rep. Maxine Waters, Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. "I applaud Chairman Frank for passing this bill out of committee and I call on the Senate to work quickly to modernize FHA and help strengthen the housing market and the economy, as soon as possible." Specifically, the bill modernizes the FHA and brings it into the realities of the housing market in the 21st century by: · Increasing loan limits in high cost areas of the country like California, New York, and Massachusetts, where FHA has been driven from the market, forcing many borrowers to turn to high-cost financing and other non-traditional loan products. · Authorizing zero down and lower down payment FHA loans for homebuyers who could not otherwise make the down payment required under current FHA rules, to make FHA more consistent with other private sector loan products. · Directing FHA to underwrite to borrowers with higher credit risk than FHA currently serves that are still creditworthy to take out a mortgage loan, but are otherwise now being driven into the subprime loan market, with much higher mortgage rates. · Permanently eliminating the current statutory volume cap on FHA reverse mortgage loans to permit this program to meet the growing needs of home equity rich, cash poor seniors citizens that need help paying bills or needed home costs, while capping the fees that loan originators can charge senior citizens · Reinvesting increased FHA profits created by the bill in housing counseling and affordable housing fund activities The bill includes a number of important changes to the version of the bill that passed the House last year. The bill eliminates the fee hikes from last year's bill for higher risk borrowers that continue to make a down payment, scaling back the maximum annual fee from 2% to .55%. This would reduce fees for a hypothetical family buying a $300,000 home by over $20,000, compared to the bill enacted last year. Unlike last year's version, the bill would also require the additional upfront FHA premium charged to higher risk borrowers be rebated to borrowers that make five years of timely mortgage payments, a rebate of at least three quarters of a percentage point ($2,250 on a loan of $300,000). The bill also adds a number of homebuyer protections not included in last year's bill for families taking out riskier zero down payment loans, and for borrowers who represent a higher credit risk. Specifically, the bill gives HUD authority to require pre-purchase counseling for riskier borrowers, requires a number of disclosures spelling out the costs and risks of zero down and lower down payment loans, and requires borrowers to receive notice of availability of counseling in the event they fall behind in their loan payments. The bill includes a provision not in last year's bill authorizing appropriations for affordable housing fund purposes equal to the net profits ("net negative credit subsidy") created by the bill, after first funding an increase in housing counseling from $42 million up to $100 million. Finally, the bill includes a provision, also not in last year's bill, that authorizes loan limit increases for FHA rental housing loans in high cost areas, where current FHA loan limits do not keep pace with local construction costs. During committee consideration of the bill, the members agreed to amend the bill in the following ways: · An amendment by Rep. Waters to set upfront premiums on FHA single family loans at levels commensurate with risk, so that HUD can afford to insure loans for such borrowers. · An amendment by Rep. Frank to increase funds for nationwide housing counseling grants from $42 million to $100 million a year, and to ensure that no funds that are derived from the 203(b) single family loan program may be used for affordable housing fund purposes. · An amendment by Reps. Frank, Miller, Scott, and Neugebauer to permit mortgage brokers to participate in FHA by posting a $75,000 surety bond, in lieu of the current audit and net worth requirements, with a GAO study of the change and a five year sunset. Before adoption, this amendment was modified by an amendment by Rep. Green to include certain requirements for such mortgage broker participation in FHA. · An amendment by Rep. Neugebauer to require HUD to conduct a study on its Information Technology needs with respect to FHA. · An amendment by Reps. Marshall and Brown-Waite to cap loan origination fees on FHA reverse mortgage loans at 2% of the amount that can be borrowed upfront, which would reduce costs for seniors citizens compared to the current 2% cap on a much higher baseline, the maximum mortgage amount. · Two amendments by Rep. Donnelly to provide for more flexibility for FHA to ensure manufactured housing loans. · An amendment by Rep. Hodes to ensure that FHA escrow agents bear the cost of any financial penalty based on any failure on their part to make timely payments of taxes and insurance out of an escrow account. · An amendment by Rep. Maloney to increase the maximum FHA loan amount when the home is also being used to operate a licensed day care facility. · An amendment by Rep. Dennis Moore to prohibit FHA from unnecessarily raising loan fees, by conditioning any fee increase on a need to keep that particular FHA program from running a deficit. · An amendment by Rep. McCarthy requiring borrowers who are late on their loan payments from receiving notice of the availability of foreclosure prevention counseling. · An amendment by Rep. Green to require HUD to create a pilot program for an automated process for borrowers without sufficient credit history. · An amendment by Rep. Capito to require a government ID of some sort to qualify for an FHA loan. ###
07.27.2009	The House Financial Services Committee today passed H.R. 1851, the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007. The bill passed by a wide bipartisan margin of 52 to 9. The legislation would reform the Section 8 funding formula to make it more efficient, revise the rent calculation process for Section 8 and public housing to expand work incentives and reduce administrative costs, increase flexibility to use vouchers for homeownership, amend voucher targeting rules to increase voucher opportunities for lower income working families in rural areas, and authorize an expansion in the number of families receiving vouchers by 20,000 a year for each of the next five years. "It is important that we move forward on Section 8 Voucher reform, if for no other reason than to restore our responsibility for the program. Many important aspects of the program like the funding formula have had to be addressed by the appropriators because we did not reauthorize the Section 8 Voucher program. Several weeks ago the funding formula was put in the Continuing Resolution without any vetting of the issue within our Committee," said Rep. Waters. "A program of this importance to American communities needs to be more efficient to be effective. H.R. 1851 represents consensus around a federal housing program that can work for the nation's low-income working families with children, and the elderly and disabled, as well the Public Housing Authorities (PHAs)." The Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity held a hearing to examine Section 8 voucher issues on March 9, 2007. Rep. Waters introduced H.R. 1851 on March 29, 2007, with Committee Chairman Frank, Ranking Housing Subcommittee Member Biggert, and Rep. Shays as original cosponsors. The full committee also voted today to adopt Rep. Waters' Manager's Amendment that would provide for the following provisions: Using Vouchers for the Purchase of manufactured homes Permits vouchers to be used for the full cost of purchasing manufactured homes on leased land Protecting Vouchers Reserved for Persons with Disabilities Requires HUD to issue guidance to ensure that the 50,000+ vouchers created for persons with disabilities continue be reserved for such persons. Breaking the Cap on the number of families a housing authority can serve Permits housing agencies to exceed their limit on the number of voucher holders they can serve, thus encouraging more efficient use of voucher funds Voucher Reserves Increases from 2% to 5% the percentage of reserves housing agencies can retain for the voucher program Portability Provides for full funding for the cost of housing agencies accepting voucher holders from other communities, to strengthen the voucher program's feature that lets families move from one community to another. Family Self Sufficiency Coordinators Provides for a more reliable funding source for the cost of family self-sufficiency coordinators that assist public housing residents in finding employment. More Accurate Market Rent and Funding Adjustments Requires HUD to establish smaller areas for the purpose of calculating Fair Market Rent levels and providing annual voucher funding inflation adjustments, in order to improve the accuracy of such calculations Housing Innovation Program Expands the number of public housing agencies that can participate in the Housing Innovation Program [renamed from "Moving to Work"], which lets agencies experiment with development, financing, and work incentive proposals, while also adding substantial tenant protections to the program Subsequently, the Committee passed a number of amendments, as follows: A Waters amendment to expand the permissible number of Housing Innovation Program agencies by 20, plus a second category of 20 additional agencies under expanded tenant protections, including expanded resident participation in any proposals to demolish public housing units A Green amendment, modified by an amendment by Rep. Bachus, to authorize 20,000 new incremental vouchers in each of the next five years A Waters amendment to strengthen protections for voucher families in units that fail to meet federal housing quality standards A Lynch/Murphy amendment to strengthen voucher provisions to address areas when families face high rent burdens A Watt amendment to ensure that families seeking public and assisted housing are only screened based on their ability to meet lease obligations A Murphy amendment to exclude income from Coverdell and Section 529 educational accounts from rent calculations A Moore [WI] amendment to increase voucher work incentives for severely disabled persons, in conjunction with State demonstration programs A Capuano/Lynch amendment to protect families making less than 95% of median income from being evicted from "Demo Dispo" and Section 8 limited equity cooperative developments A Green amendment to authorize 15 year contract terms for vouchers used in housing tax credit projects, to help facilitate financing for such projects A Capuano amendment to protect "empty nesters" from eviction from certain buildings when their units are oversized ###
07.27.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives overwhelmingly passed H.R. 1851, the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2007, Sponsored by Congresswoman Maxine Waters with a bipartisan vote of 333 to 83, to reform the Section 8 funding formula to make it more efficient and revise the rent calculation process for Section 8 and public housing to expand work incentives and reduce administrative costs. In addition, the bill will increase flexibility to use vouchers for homeownership, amend voucher targeting rules to increase voucher opportunities for lower income working families in rural areas, and authorize an expansion in the number of families receiving vouchers by 20,000 a year for each of the next five years. The measure now moves to the Senate for consideration. "This is a program we can all be proud of. This bill addresses many of those problems and will return much-needed stability to the Section 8 program and the 2 million low-income families who rely upon it," said Rep. Waters (D-CA). "We are reestablishing a program that changes lives by providing clean, safe, and affordable housing, improve the health of families, introduce better educational opportunities for children in school, improve communities, and strengthen the face of the nation's affordable housing landscape." "At last, we have a bill that brings this country's Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program into the 21st Century," said Rep. Biggert (R-IL), an original cosponsor of the bill. "Besides providing more flexibility at the local level, where it's needed most, this bill will expand and enhance the programs that help public housing recipients move to self-sufficiency and to homeownership." "I'm especially pleased that we addressed the special needs of seniors and people with disabilities," continued Biggert, Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. "In all, there is much to like in this bill, and that's why it received overwhelmingly strong bipartisan support." The House also voted to adopt Rep. Waters' manager's amendment, to allow flexibility in rent setting while maintaining statutory affordability requirements, increase the level of permitted voucher reserves in the first year of the transition under the funding formula change, spell-out responsibilities for HUD to provide uniform translation of documents under the Administration's Limited English Proficiency (LEP) requirements, and make modifications to inspection and Housing Innovation Program (HIP) provisions in the bill. SUMMARY OF H.R. 1851 The Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (SEVRA) makes a number of changes to the Section 8 voucher and project-based and public housing programs to expand rental assistance opportunities, improve program efficiencies, and encourage family self-sufficiency: Voucher Funding Formula. The bill reforms the Section 8 voucher funding allocation formula in order to increase the number of families receiving vouchers, by eliminating inefficiencies that have resulted in $1.4 billion in unused funds and through incentives for housing agencies to use funds to assist more families. The bill protects housing agencies adversely affected by formula changes, by allowing them to retain and use voucher reserves during the transition period to maintain the number of families being assisted. Incremental Section 8 Housing Vouchers. The bill authorizes 20,000 incremental vouchers in each of the next 5 years, for a total of 100,000 new vouchers. Self-Sufficiency. The bill includes a number of provisions to encourage economic self-sufficiency for low income voucher and public housing families, including (a) income disregards to reduce rent disincentives related to increases in earned income, (b) targeting changes to make it easier for low income working families in rural areas to receive a voucher, (c) an improved funding mechanism for family self-sufficiency coordinators, who help families find employment, (d) income exemptions for adult full time student dependents and for education savings accounts, (e) helping low income families improve their credit score by allowing reporting of voucher and public housing rent payments. Homeownership. The bill permits housing agencies to let a family use a housing voucher as a down payment on a first-time home purchase. The bill corrects statutory impediments to use of a voucher for purchase of a manufactured home on leased land. Simplification. The bill changes rent calculation, recertification, and inspection rules for the voucher, public housing, and project-based Section 8 programs, to reduce costs and compliance burdens for public housing agencies, landlords, and families. These changes are made while maintaining rules that target scarce resources to those families most in need and while maintaining rent calculation rules that ensure that rents are affordable. Tenant Protections. The bill makes a number of changes for the benefit of federally assisted families, including provisions to preserve voucher families' ability to move to other areas, to address excessive voucher rent burdens, to provide for more accurate fair market rent calculations, and to protect voucher holders in units that are in need of repair. Housing Innovation Program. The bill expands and renames the Moving to Work Program, which gives a limited number of housing agencies flexibility to experiment with development and rent policies, and strengthens the program's evaluation process. Project-Basing of Vouchers. The bill includes changes to make it easier for housing agencies to attach vouchers to housing units – an important option in tight rental markets and in developing supportive housing for seniors, disabled persons and homeless persons. ###
07.27.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today released the following statement regarding the resignation of HUD Secretary Alphonso Jackson: "I am very sorry Secretary Jackson defaulted on a great opportunity to serve this country, particularly at a time when HUD should be playing an important role in solving the subprime crisis, restoring housing to the Gulf Coast and taking advantage of opportunities afforded by Congress to revitalize the Hope VI and FHA programs. I am hopeful that the Bush Administration will quickly appoint someone to replace him who will have full authority to provide the leadership that is so desperately needed at HUD." ###
07.27.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, Representative Maxine Waters (D-CA)—Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity of the House Financial Service Committee-- introduced two major pieces of legislation in response to the nation's growing foreclosure crisis—H.R. 5679, "The Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act" and H.R. 5678,"The Neighborhood Rescue and Stabilization Act." "I have been taking a careful and comprehensive look at this crisis, both in my position as the senior California Member of the Financial Services Committee and as Chair of that Committee's Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee," stated Rep. Waters. "While these two bills alone will not be enough to deal with the impact of the crisis on individual homeowners, neighborhoods, and communities, I strongly believe they respond to critical gaps in our current federal policy response." "First, I am convinced that we can no longer rely only on the voluntary actions of the mortgage industry to keep as many distressed borrowers in their homes and in affordable mortgages as needed to address the greatest foreclosure wave since the Great Depression. From the beginning of this debacle, I have been focused on the actions of mortgage servicers[1][1]—who are the direct point of contact for nearly all borrowers. It is now crystal clear that they just aren't moving quickly enough, or offering borrowers approaching foreclosure sustainable alternatives to losing their homes." "The fundamental problem is that the mortgage servicers have no legal obligation to make a reasonable effort to keep a borrower in delinquency in his or her home, even where that borrower may have been the victim of a predatory, unaffordable loan. Their only duty is to the investment trust that holds the bundle of mortgages they service, and even though the servicers regularly come before Congress and tell us that their financial incentive is to avoid foreclosure, and stabilize people in their homes, foreclosure rates just keep increasing."[2][2] "Enough is enough. While I look forward to the Committee's consideration of Chairman Frank's ambitious proposal to expand FHA loan guarantees to incentivize industry to write down principal on 1-2 million at-risk mortgages,[3][3] the time has come to add a stick to the carrots being offered to mortgage servicers to do what it takes to stem this crisis now. Simply put, absent a statutory duty of some kind, I am concerned that consumers have little leverage with mortgage servicers in the current crisis, and will continue to lack it in the future. H.R. 5679, the Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act creates this enforceable legal duty." Second, even as we work to keep as many borrowers in their homes as possible, it is clear that we must provide help to communities across the country that already face block-after-block of foreclosed and abandoned properties. A consensus has rapidly formed that a sound approach to providing additional economic stimulus to the ailing economy would include making federal resources available for state and local government, in partnership with nonprofits, to purchase these properties and either resell them or operate them as affordable rental properties." "While I look forward to Congressional consideration of the full range of proposals to assist communities with the growing foreclosed and abandoned property problem,[4][4] I believe H.R. 5678, The Neighborhood Rescue and Stabilization Act (NRSA) is the soundest approach to investing federal resources." The Chairwoman issued the following detailed statement providing background and details on the two pieces of legislation. The Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act (FPMSA)—creating a legal duty for mortgage servicers to engage in reasonable loss mitigation activities before foreclosing. "On November 30, 2007, I convened a Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee hearing in Los Angeles entitled "Foreclosure Prevention and Intervention: The Importance of Loss Mitigation[5][5] Strategies in Keeping Families in Their Homes." Witnesses at the hearing painted a different picture of the mortgage servicers' initial response to the subprime crisis than industry press releases. Homeowners, homeownership counselors, Legal Aid attorneys, and local government officials all testified to the difficulties they encountered in getting prompt, reasonable action by mortgage servicers. Too often, individual borrowers and even their trained advocates found it difficult even to find an actual person to speak to about loss mitigation-- much less one authorized to offer the kind of loan modifications that the borrowers needed to remain in the home for the long-term. Shockingly, Countrywide testified at the hearing that it had contacted 18 million at-risk borrowers, yet managed to execute fewer than 40,000 loan modifications." "At that time, however, I was still prepared to withhold final judgment on industry efforts. I wanted to confirm whether the industry—as it repeatedly claimed—was still in the ramping up phase of far more decisive and collective voluntary action by the mortgage servicers, especially through the much publicized and Bush Administration-endorsed HOPE NOW Alliance." "Unfortunately, the results have now come in, and they are unimpressive. HOPE NOW reported that it helped 545,000 subprime borrowers during the second half of 2007. Yet 33% more people actually lost their homes during that period than in the first six months of the year. That is not progress. More recently, HOPE NOW touted having completed loan workouts for 638,000 troubled subprime borrowers from July, 2007 through the end of January, 2008. But, as was the case with Countrywide in November 2007, it turns out that the vast majority (72%) of those who received any help were put on repayment plans that simply allowed them to catch up on missed payments and back interest—we have no way to know if these repayment plans are affordable to the borrowers for the long-term." "Even the loan modification figures provided by HOPE NOW are troubling. While the Alliance and Treasury Secretary Paulson emphasize the increasing proportion of loan modifications in January (93,000) versus prior months, industry executives were forced to acknowledge to The New York Times (https://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/04/business/04paulson.html?scp=1&sq=Hope+Now+and+Alliance+and+93%2C000&st=nyt ) that the majority of the HOPE NOW loan modifications likely just stretched out the original repayment terms. Again, we have no assurance that such modifications are affordable for borrowers over the long term—such as freezing the interest rate of a subprime "ARM" (adjustable rate mortgage) to freeze the interest rate at the initial, affordable "teaser" rate for some significant length of time-- or simply delay the inevitable foreclosure. Indeed, today's New York Times makes even more clear that the HOPE NOW Alliance is failing to produce the results we need." H.R. 5679, The Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act constitutes a balanced approach to ensuring more prompt, comprehensive, and sustainable loss mitigation activities by mortgage servicers – and policymakers' ability to track those activities-- in this and any future mortgage crises. o The FPSMSA requires only "reasonable" activities by mortgage servicers, not Herculean efforts or imprudent measures. "The FPMSA simply establishes that a mortgage servicer has a duty to engage in reasonable loss mitigation strategies, or it cannot foreclose on a borrower's principal residence. It is in no respect a radical bill. It does not prohibit foreclosures outright, as several state legislatures and Presidential candidates have already proposed. Nor does it demand that a servicer to engage in loss mitigation that doesn't make sound business sense. Rather it obligates mortgage servicers do what they say they are already doing, namely, prioritizing alternatives to foreclosure that keep homeowners in their homes and turning to the foreclosure process only when clearly warranted." o The FPSMSA addresses specific concerns raised by borrowers, housing counselors, consumer attorneys and local public officials in describing their dealings with mortgage servicers during the current crisis. "The bill would also rectify some of the troubling situations I learned of at the November 30, 2007 hearing and since, by: mandating that all servicers: (1) provide a toll-free or collect-call phone number that provides the borrower with direct access to a person with the information and authority to fully resolve issues related to loss mitigation; and (2) undertake all loss mitigation activities in the United States; prohibiting a servicer engaged in loss mitigation from conditioning a loan modification on a borrower's limitation or waiver of legal rights; requiring that servicers affirmatively notify borrowers with Adjustable Rate Mortgages (ARMs) of the date of any impending increase in the interest rate and the projected mortgage payment at the anticipated rate based on a projection; directing a servicer, in the case of mortgages where a payment is over 60 days overdue, to forward the borrower's contact to a HUD-certified housing counselor; and ensuring that mortgage servicers provide prompt and comprehensive information in response to inquiries by borrowers and their agents, including housing counselors." o The FPSMSA ensures that mortgage servicers have a financial incentive to pursue alternatives to foreclosure and provides guidance on the kinds of loss mitigation plans that courts and regulators are likely to determine are "reasonable" "Perhaps most importantly, the FPSMSA ensures that it is cost-effective for servicers to engage in loss mitigation—by authorizing fees for loan modifications and other loss mitigation activities[6][6]— and provides guidance to them about the kinds of loss mitigation offers that courts are likely to deem "reasonable." While no statute can take into account the full range of situations distressed borrowers and servicers will confront, the FPSMSA identifies an essential element of sustainable loss mitigation activities-- their long-term affordability to the borrower. It does no good for a mortgage servicer to offer a borrower a repayment plan in which the borrower's income represents only 25% of his debt, or excludes non-mortgage debt from the calculation of such a "debt-to-income" ratio, or demands so much from the borrower in terms of monthly payments that insufficient residual income remains for food, medicine and other necessities of life." "Right now, the stories recounted to me by borrowers and their advocates suggest that many that many mortgage servicers are not using sound long-term underwriting standards in making loss mitigation decisions; therefore, the FPSMSA identifies an approach to calculating the affordability of mortgage payments that has long worked for our nation's veterans—that of the VA Loan Guaranty program. A loss mitigation activity that meets the Loan Guaranty program's standards will automatically qualify as affordable under the Act, which will in turn inform the decision of any court or regulator in judging the ‘reasonableness' of that loss mitigation activity. This should move the industry in the direction of the sustainable solutions for distressed borrowers needed to turn the tide on this crisis." o The FPSMSA is essential to addressing this foreclosure crisis and preventing the next one. "Ultimately, the FPSMSA is about both helping as many borrowers caught up in the current crisis and ensuring that the mortgage servicing industry's loss mitigation commitment and capacity never again shrinks so far below the level of need. From the day this bill is enacted, mortgage servicers and investors in mortgage-backed securities will have to take account in their contracts of the servicer's legal duty to engage in reasonable loss mitigation. As a consequence, never again will this industry be so ill-prepared to address a crisis of the kind we face now." "I am compelled to conclude by noting that a recent article in the The American Banker (February 13, 2008) quoted an industry source who described an earlier discussion draft of this bill as a "nightmare." Well, the real nightmare is the one experienced by families that live in houses that are rapidly losing value, and have loans scheduled to reset to such high rates that there is no way the resulting monthly payment will be affordable. These families deserve more from the entities servicing their loans than press releases and repayment plans that simply kick the can down the road a few months. If enacted, H.R. 5679, The Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act will give that to them." The Neighborhood Rescue and Stabilization Act (NRSA)—giving states and large cities the resources to save devastated neighborhoods by purchasing, rehabilitating, and reselling/re-renting foreclosed and abandoned properties." "I believe that H.R. 5678, The Neighborhood Rescue and Stabilization Act (NRSA) creates the most prudent and effective strategy for assisting communities during this crisis because this legislation: o Targets assistance to the communities that are hardest-hit by the foreclosure wave. "The foreclosure crisis has not hit all areas of the country equally. California, Las Vegas, and the Rust Belt cities of the Midwest have been especially hard-hit. Additionally, many communities may face significant increases in foreclosure rates, if they have high rates of subprime ARMs and other dangerous loan products per capita and/or have extraordinarily high median home prices. For these reasons, NRSA would require HUD to devise within 60 days a formula to distribute the $10 billion authorized by the legislation among states based on based on the share of total foreclosures nationwide that occurred in the State during the most recent six month period for which data is available, adjusted to account for differences in the states in (a) number and percentage of homes in the State financed by a subprime mortgage; (b) number and percentage of homes in the state default or delinquency; and (c)median home price in the State. " o Puts resources in the hands of governments with enough jurisdiction and capacity to address the crisis. "It is critical that federal resources devoted to revitalizing foreclosed and abandoned properties not be dissipated across too many jurisdictions to be invested in a coordinated and effective fashion. Proposals that address this concern by distributing all such resources to the states, however, ignore the substantial capacity and jurisdictional reach of the nation's large cities." Accordingly, H.R. 5678 strikes a balance between state and local distribution of funds by requiring that states receiving funding under the bill direct a portion of that funding to all cities within their bounds larger than 200,000 (a local government size/capacity cut-off used frequently in the distribution of federal transportation resources) under a funding formula to be established by the Secretary based on the share of total foreclosures in the State that occurred in the individual cities during the most recent six month period for which data is available, adjusted to account for differences between the individual cities and the Statewide average for (a) percentage of homes financed by a subprime mortgage; (b) percentage of homes in default or delinquency; and (c)median home price. " o Provides maximum flexibility in the use of resources. "Addressing the foreclosed and abandoned property aspect of the current economic crisis is filled with uncertainty. Many of these properties are located in communities with rapidly shifting—and sometimes nearly impossible to determine- market values. Moreover, it is not clear exactly how best to allocate funds between purchase and resale vs. re-rental, and across the broad range of costs that will be incurred from purchasing to rehab to ongoing operating costs. Therefore, NRSA takes the most flexible approach, by proposing to (1) distribute the $10 billion in authorized funding entirely in the form of grants – because likelihood of repayment of even zero interest loans is not clear; and (2) make a range of activities eligible for funding that is broader even than HUD's existing block grant programs (e.g., HOME, CDBG), including: 1. grants, loans, and other financing mechanisms to CDFIs, national intermediaries, community development corporations and other non-profit housing organizations, and others to purchase and rehabilitate abandoned and foreclosed homes in order to sell, rent, or redevelop them; 2. establish financing mechanisms for such redevelopment, including soft-seconds, loan loss reserves, and shared equity loans for low and moderate income homebuyers; 3. purchase and rehabilitate homes that have been abandoned or foreclosed upon, in order to sell, rent, or redevelop such homes; 4. establish land banks for homes that have been foreclosed upon; 5. demolish blighted structures; 6. project-based rental assistance; 7. project operating reserves; 8. project operating subsidies including payment for management, taxes, handling, insurance, and other related costs; and 9. all other activities eligible under CDBG. "H.R. 5678 guards against abuse of grant funding by requiring that no abandoned or foreclosed upon home be purchased for greater than the appraised value of the home based on the most up-to-date appraisal, as such appraisal is defined by the Secretary." o Ensures that the poorest and most-housing cost-burdened will not be left out. "While there is incomplete and conflicting data at this point regarding exactly where the foreclosure wave has "hit" on the income spectrum in individual communities, I believe that any substantial investment of federal resources in the homeownership and rental housing stock of communities must take account of the housing needs of extremely low income (ELI) families—defined by HUD as those earning below 30% of area median income." ELI households face a ‘double whammy' in the current crisis. First, thanks to the Administration and subprime lender led push to increase homeownership at all costs, more of them are homeowners than ever before, and represent those at greatest risk of foreclosure given their lower capacity to withstand financial disruption such as a rate reset. Second, they face competition for the already inadequate supply of low cost rental housing from slightly higher income households who have been foreclosed upon. Accordingly, it is essential that a portion of the resources dedicated to helping state and local governments stabilize neighborhoods affected by the foreclosure wave be focused on the needs of extremely low income families. Accordingly, NRSA requires that 25% of total assistance authorized—or $2.5 billion—must be targeted to ELI households. ### [1][1] The vast majority of home mortgage loans do not remain on the books of the bank or other financial entity that originated them. Rather, they are typically bundled together and "securitized"—sold in the secondary market as part of investment trusts in which the investors hold financial interests in particular bundles, or "tranches," of the underlying mortgages. The trust then contracts with a mortgage servicing entity which takes payment and otherwise interacts with the individual borrowers behind the trust's underlying mortgages. The mortgage servicer is, therefore, responsible for taking all steps to address payment delinquency including foreclosing on behalf of the investment trust. [2][2] Realty Trac reports that foreclosure filings in January, 2008 were 8% higher than in December 2007, and 57% higher than a year earlier. [3][3] A summary of Chairman Frank's FHA proposal can be found at https://financialservices.house.gov/FHA.html subheading I. [4][4] S. 2636, The Foreclosure Prevention Act, introduced by Senate Majority Leader Reid on February 14, 2008, included $4 billion in emergency CDBG funding for this purpose. The House Financial Services Committee in its Views and Estimates of the President's Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Request proposed reserving $10 billion in the budget resolution for grants and loans to support these activities. The outline of a proposal by Financial Services Committee Chairman Frank for the use of these funds can be viewed at https://financialservices.house.gov/FHA.html subheading III. [5][5] "Loss mitigation" refers to a range of activities that a mortgage servicer may offer a homeowner as an alternative to foreclosure, and includes repayment plans, loan modifications, short sales, and deeds-in-lieu of foreclosure. [6][6] Some have observed that mortgage servicers often do not receive fees for loss mitigation activities under their pooling and servicing agreements with investors, and by contrast, may generate substantial fees from the foreclosure process https://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/06/business/06mortgage.html?_r=1&scp=2&sq=Katherine+Porter+and+Iowa+and+servicing&st=nyt&oref=slogin .
07.27.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters, chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today released the following statement regarding her efforts to work with the Department of Housing and Urban Development's decision to reverse its position on the treatment of Kin-GAP payments in the Section 8 program: "I was very concerned when I first learned that HUD was treating Kin-GAP payments as income and including them in a family's rent calculations in the Section 8 program. The California Kinship Guardianship Assistance Payment program (Kin-GAP) provides payments to relative caregivers to take in related children so that the children do not land in the foster care system. For seven years, the program operated with HUD's knowledge and support. And then suddenly, late last year, HUD announced that it would no longer exclude Kin-GAP payments from income. This meant that Kin-GAP families in Section 8 would either see their rents rise exponentially or would face the prospect of becoming ineligible for the program. "This just wasn't right. HUD was putting families in a position of choosing between their home or their children. It simply wasn't a choice that any caregiver should have to make. So, on March 14, 2008, I introduced H.R. 5645, the Housing Protection and Foster Care Prevention Act of 2008. With 11 original co-sponsors, including 6 members of the California Congressional delegation, the bill would have required HUD to exclude Kin-GAP payments from income calculations. "However, I am pleased to announce that today I have learned that HUD is going to reverse its policy on Kin-GAP. In a letter to me, a HUD official states that the Department "conducted further analysis of the income exclusion regulations" and found that Kin-Gap payments, and payments received under similar programs, can and will be considered as foster care payments and excluded from income calculations. HUD plans to soon issue a notice stating this position. "This is a victory for relative caregivers in California and throughout the country who have wondered how they would pay the rent in light of HUD's policy shift. I have received countless letters from relative caregivers in California who were concerned about the impact HUD's policy would have on their families. Hopefully, these families can rest easy now. "I thank the Department for listening to my concerns, as well as the concerns of my colleagues who co-sponsored H.R. 5645. Now, I call on HUD to ensure that families who saw rent increases as a result of its policy are immediately reinstated at their previous rent. Families who were forced out of the Section 8 program should be reinstated as well." ###
07.27.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives acted today to help communities hit hardest by the housing foreclosure crisis, passing legislation introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), the Chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee. By a vote of 239-188, the House passed The Neighborhood Stabilization Act (H.R. 5818), which authorizes a $15 billion federal grant and loan program to help state and local governments purchase, rehabilitate, and resell or rent foreclosed homes. "To understand the urgent need to enact this legislation, you just need to visit — as I have —communities like Cleveland, Detroit, or the San Bernardino and Stockton metropolitan areas in California, where block after block is dotted by foreclosed properties, many of them suffering from neglect or actual vandalism. These abandoned and foreclosed properties drag down the value of the homes still occupied by working families, contribute to a cascade effect whereby plummeting home prices erode the tax base of state and local governments and harm real estate related industries such as the construction trades," Congresswoman Waters said. Using well-accepted construction activity multipliers, the National Foreclosure Prevention and Neighborhood Stabilization Task Force calculates that the bill's proposed $15 billion investment will generate at least $38 billion in direct and "ripple effect" economic activity nationwide, employ 120,000 people, and restore nearly $225 million per year in local government real estate tax collections. The foreclosure crisis, fueled by subprime mortgages, has resulted in significant property revenue losses for states, counties and local governments. Because many state and local governments must balance their budgets each year, 20 states have already had to make or are proposing budget cuts due largely to revenue losses. These budget cuts further harm the economy and deepen the recession. Despite severe fiscal constraints, many states and cities are already dedicating their own shrinking tax revenues to purchase foreclosed properties and stabilize neighborhoods as Mayor Menino of Boston, Governor O'Malley of Maryland, and others testified before the House Financial Services Committee on April 10th. However, states and cities are overwhelmed by the scale of the housing foreclosure problem and unable to adequately respond without federal assistance. For this reason, the National Governors Association (NGA) has stated that a "one-time federal funding commitment to support the acquisition and rehabilitation for foreclosed properties is vital to stabilize home values and protect neighborhoods in trouble now." In developing legislation, Congresswoman Waters focused on finding a solution that reflects a sound approach to providing this critical fiscal relief to states and localities. "This bill provides effective and meaningful help that is targeted, timely and temporary," she emphasized. "First, this bill targets assistance where it is most needed. The $7.5 billion in grants and $7.5 billion in loans would be allocated to states based on the number of foreclosures and the number of subprime loans 90 days delinquent and then adjusted to account for median home price. Second, the bill put funds "on the street" quickly enough to stimulate the economy." Instead of expecting the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to process plans from 1200 jurisdictions, the legislation allocates funding to the states and the nation's largest 100 cities, largest 50 counties, and cities over 50,000 with especially high foreclosure rates. (The areas of states outside of those cities and counties would be addressed in the states' plans.) "These governments have enough jurisdiction and capacity to address the crisis comprehensively, and we are allowing them flexibility so they can best use resources to meet their local needs," Congresswoman Waters said. The bill would get funds out to communities quickly but not result in permanent expenditures, by requiring fund obligation to begin within six months of enactment, be fully obligated within a year and fully spent within 2 years of enactment. The NGA is joined in its support for the stimulus contained in H.R 5818 by the U.S. Conference of Mayors, National Association of Counties, National Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies, and the National Council of State Housing Agencies. H.R. 5818 is also endorsed by a wide range of civil rights, community development, labor, and low income housing groups, including the AFL-CIO, AFSCME, Catholic Charities, Habitat for Humanity, the NAACP, the National Urban League, the National Low Income Housing Coalition, and 17 national organizations comprising the National Foreclosure Prevention and Neighborhood Stabilization Task Force. ###
07.27.2009	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) called on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to take responsibility for aiding Gulf Coast states in meeting the affordable housing needs of residents displaced by natural disasters. "Almost three years after Hurricane Katrina devastated the Gulf Coast, thousands of families remain homeless, and there is a severe shortage of affordable housing in the region. Federal agencies have a significant responsibility to assist the states, and we need to learn from any mistakes and failures," Congresswoman Waters said. Congresswoman Waters presided today over a joint hearing of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, which she chairs, and the House Homeland Security Subcommittee on Emergency Communications, Preparedness and Response, chaired by Congressman Henry Cuellar (D-TX). At the hearing, representatives from FEMA and HUD faced tough questioning from Members of Congress unhappy with the slow, incomplete and ineffective response to the severe housing needs of Gulf Coast residents. Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA) and Homeland Security Committee Chairman Bennie Thompson (D-MS) in particular were critical of HUD and FEMA for failing to accept responsibility and failing to adequately address the shortage of affordable housing in communities devastated by hurricanes. Even Republicans on the two subcommittees expressed their disappointment in FEMA and HUD. Rep. Mark Souder (R-IN) also took the FEMA and HUD officials to task for failing to be adequately prepared for today's hearing and not being able to answer questions they should have expected. The full text of Congresswoman Waters' opening statement can be found at https://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/ca35_waters/FEMA.html Additional materials related to the hearing, including a webcast and written testimony, are available at https://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/financialsvcs_dem/hr060408.shtml ###
07.27.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Homes for Heroes Act (H.R. 3329), legislation which will expand the supply of permanent housing for our country's veterans. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity and a cosponsor of the legislation, said "No man or woman who has served this country honorably, whether in a time of war or peace, should ever have to live in a homeless shelter or on the streets of our nation. I thank my colleague Congressman Al Green for authoring this much-needed bill." H.R. 3329 will strengthen housing assistance for homeless veterans and their families by providing a yearly $200 million to fund a federal assistance program. This program will provide for the production of permanent supportive housing and allocate an additional 2,000 rental housing vouchers a year to be used by veterans and their families. "Veterans are already severely overrepresented among the homeless, and I am very concerned that many of the men and women now fighting in Iraq and Afghanistan will return to America in need of housing and social services. This additional demand poses challenges for communities across the country," Congresswoman Waters said. H.R. 3329 fills a tremendous void in the current federal response to veterans' homelessness as there is currently no other program in place to develop permanent housing for veterans and their families. "Tonight at least 200,000 veterans will be forced to sleep on the streets or in a shelter. Throughout the year, a total of 400,000 veterans will experience the plight of homelessness. It is simply unacceptable that so many Americans, including so many who have served our country honorably, do not have housing. Homes for Heroes is an important step in reducing the numbers of homeless veterans," Congresswoman Waters said. Veterans are just one-tenth of the general population, but they comprise nearly one fourth of America's homeless. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) announced today that the comprehensive housing legislation soon to be voted on soon by the U.S. House of Representatives will include $4 billion in funding for states, counties and cities to purchase and fix up foreclosed properties in order to stabilize neighborhoods. Congresswoman Waters noted that the House Democratic leadership have made a commitment to keep language passed by the Senate in the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221) to assist communities hit hardest by the national foreclosure crisis. "I am pleased that Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank have agreed to support the inclusion of $4 billion in vital funding for America's neighborhoods," said Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. "This funding is vitally important to help communities overcome the problems of foreclosures such as crime, blight, and declining home values." Concerned about the effect of the subprime mortgage meltdown on neighborhoods in Los Angeles, throughout California and across America, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Neighborhood Stabilization Act (H.R. 5818), which authorizes a federal grant and loan program to help state and local governments purchase, rehabilitate, and resell or rent foreclosed homes and in turn create rental and ownership opportunities for low- and moderate-income families. The House passed her legislation earlier this year, and a broad-based coalition of groups known as the Save America's Neighborhoods Campaign worked hard to make sure that Congress includes neighborhood stabilization funding as part of its major response to the foreclosure crisis. The foreclosure crisis, fueled by subprime mortgages, has resulted in significant property revenue losses for states, counties and local governments. Because many state and local governments must balance their budgets each year, 20 states have already had to make or are proposing budget cuts due largely to revenue losses. These budget cuts further harm the economy and deepen the recession. Despite severe fiscal constraints, many states and cities are already dedicating their own shrinking tax revenues to purchase foreclosed properties and stabilize neighborhoods. However, states and cities are overwhelmed by the scale of the housing foreclosure problem and unable to adequately respond without federal assistance. As a result, governors, mayors and county legislators support federal funding to help acquire and rehabilitate foreclosed properties. In developing legislation, Congresswoman Waters focused on finding a solution that reflects a sound approach to providing this critical fiscal relief to states and localities. Her bill targets assistance where it is most needed as determined by the number of foreclosures and the number of subprime loans 90 days delinquent and then adjusted to account for median home price. In addition, the legislation would get funds out to communities quickly but not result in permanent expenditures, by requiring fund obligation to begin within six months of enactment, be fully obligated within a year and fully spent within 2 years of enactment. Congresswoman Waters' legislation was endorsed by a wide range of civil rights, community development, labor, and low income housing groups, including the AFL-CIO, AFSCME, Catholic Charities, Habitat for Humanity, the NAACP, the National Urban League, the National Low Income Housing Coalition, and 17 national organizations comprising the National Foreclosure Prevention and Neighborhood Stabilization Task Force. (A longer list of organizations supporting emergency stabilization funding can be found at www.saveamericasneighborhoods.org) Although H.R. 5818 passed the House earlier this year, neighborhood stabilization funding was not originally included in H.R. 3221, the housing legislation taken up by the Senate. Congresswoman Waters advocated effectively to make sure that the Senate included such funding, writing Senator Chris Dodd, the Banking Committee Chair. She also worked with the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) as well as housing advocacy organizations to have the Senate language included in the bill when it came back for House consideration. CBC Members sent a letter to Speaker Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid emphasizing the importance of passing legislation that included emergency neighborhood stabilization funding. Their letter noted that while the foreclosure crisis has hurt many communities across the nation, African-American neighborhoods have been disproportionately affected as the African-American community was targeted for high cost, predatory subprime loans. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) celebrated House passage today of comprehensive housing legislation that will help American families facing foreclosure remain in their homes, prevent future foreclosures and assist communities impacted by foreclosures. The legislation includes $4 billion in funding for states, counties and cities to stabilize neighborhoods. Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, has been the leading advocate for funding to assist communities hit hardest by the national foreclosure crisis. Although President Bush had threatened to veto it, causing some Members of Congress to consider passing a bill without neighborhood stabilization funds, she insisted that such funding be a part of the comprehensive housing package. "I have worked with the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), governors, mayors, and housing advocacy groups to highlight the importance of providing assistance to communities where foreclosures have caused declining home values, blight and crime. We were confident that the President would drop his veto threat in the face of such strong support. He needed our help to pass the reforms related to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, but he could not expect to get the votes of CBC members and other Democrats who represent affected urban areas with high foreclosure rates unless he accepted the inclusion of neighborhood stabilization funding," said Congresswoman Waters. In addition, the legislation includes measures to modernize the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), another priority of Congresswoman Waters. She introduced the Expanding American Homeownership Act (H.R. 1852) to provide FHA the tools and resources needed to allow it to assist more low-income homebuyers. The House overwhelmingly passed her legislation last year and again earlier this year as part of the original version of the housing rescue package. "Including FHA modernization in this legislation today is essential because FHA is the only national agency with the capacity and expertise to assist the nation's homeowners on a large scale," she said. "FHA had become obsolete in California and other parts of the country because of its low loan limits, outdated rules and slow bureaucracy. Many low-income homebuyers therefore had little choice but to turn to the subprime mortgage market for assistance. We have taken a significant step by modernizing FHA." Having seen the effect of the subprime mortgage meltdown on neighborhoods in Los Angeles, throughout California and across America, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Neighborhood Stabilization Act (H.R. 5818), which authorizes a federal grant and loan program to help state and local governments purchase, rehabilitate, and resell or rent foreclosed homes and in turn create rental and ownership opportunities for low- and moderate-income families. The House passed her legislation earlier this year, but neighborhood stabilization funding was not originally included in H.R. 3221, the housing legislation taken up by the Senate. Bolstered by housing advocacy groups, Congresswoman Waters impressed upon her Congressional colleagues that the foreclosure crisis was a true emergency and imposed a significant burden on state and local governments. (A list of organizations supporting emergency stabilization funding as Congresswoman Waters proposed can be found at www.saveamericasneighborhoods.org) She worked with Senate Banking Committee Chair Chris Dodd, House Financial Services Committee Chair Barney Frank and Speaker Nancy Pelosi to ensure that the comprehensive housing rescue and mortgage prevention legislation included neighborhood stabilization funding. The foreclosure crisis, fueled by subprime mortgages, has resulted in significant property revenue losses for states, counties and local governments. Because many state and local governments must balance their budgets each year, 20 states have already had to make or are proposing budget cuts due largely to revenue losses. These budget cuts further harm the economy and deepen the recession. Despite severe fiscal constraints, many states and cities are already dedicating their own shrinking tax revenues to purchase foreclosed properties and stabilize neighborhoods. However, states and cities are overwhelmed by the scale of the housing foreclosure problem and unable to adequately respond without federal assistance. As a result, governors, mayors and county legislators support federal funding to help acquire and rehabilitate foreclosed properties. Passing legislation that included emergency neighborhood stabilization funding has been a priority for Congresswoman Waters and fellow CBC Members. They have emphasized that while the foreclosure crisis has hurt many communities across the nation, African-American and Latino neighborhoods have been disproportionately affected because minority communities were targeted for high cost, predatory subprime loans. ###
07.27.2009	Following reports that the federal government has agreed on a rescue plan for Citigroup that would include the bank putting in place a loan modification plan developed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) renewed her call for a more comprehensive approach to loan modifications involving all lending institutions. "We must do more and act quickly to prevent foreclosures, and the best way to do this is a comprehensive plan to help homeowners modify their loans. I continue to believe that the approach developed by FDIC Chairwoman Sheila Bair for IndyMac and now part of the proposed rescue of Citigroup should be implemented by all lending institutions. Millions of American homeowners whose mortgages were issued and are held by other banks are at risk of losing their homes. Any future plans to assist banks should be conditioned on implementing a loan modification plan like the FDIC's," said Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. Loan modifications allow homeowners to make more affordable payments so they can remain in their homes. Modifications might take the form of lower interest rates, an extended payment term or forbearance of the loan's principal. The FDIC loan modification plan requires loan servicers to undertake a systematic review of all of the loans under their management and to modify all loans that are determined suitable for modification based on a standard formula. The plan calls for paying loan servicers $1,000 to cover expenses for each loan modified and sharing up to 50% of losses incurred if a modified loan subsequently re-defaults. The FDIC estimates that implementing its loan modification program systematically could result in 2.2 million loan modifications – about half of the 4.4 million problem loans (those already 60 days or more past due and those projected to become delinquent by the end of 2099) – and prevent almost 1.5 million foreclosures. "We know that loan modifications work to help homeowners keep their homes. In order to stem the foreclosure crisis which is hurting neighborhoods and entire communities, we need to adopt a systematic loan modification program. Strengthening the housing market is the key to recovering from the financial crisis and stabilizing our nation's economy," Congresswoman Waters said. ###
07.27.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters, Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, and most senior Member of the Financial Services Committee from the State of California, today introduced the "Systematic Foreclosure Prevention and Mortgage Modification Act of 2008" (H.R. 7326). The legislation is designed to dramatically reduce the number of foreclosures by establishing a systematic approach to modifying troubled mortgages. "The foreclosure crisis continues to spiral out of control," Rep. Waters said, "and our current programs for dealing with this crisis are simply not getting the job done." Rep. Waters proposes paying mortgage servicers $1,000 for each modification and having the government share up to 50 percent of any loss if a modified loan re-defaults. The cornerstone of the plan is the requirement that participating servicers must systematically review all loans in their portfolios. Each loan will be subjected to a net present value test to determine whether it is more beneficial to modify or to foreclose. Loans passing the test must be modified. According to Realty Trac, foreclosures increased more than 71 percent in the third quarter of 2008 compared to a year ago. Moody's Economy.com estimates that in the next 2 years, more than 7 million American homeowners are expected to default on their mortgages, with 4.3 million ultimately losing their homes. Meanwhile, the Hope Now Alliance continues to offer more repayment plans instead of loan modifications, the Hope for Homeowners program is undersubscribed by servicers, and the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) has not been used for mortgage modifications. "These foreclosures are devastating our communities. Unless immediate action is taken to assist the homeowners struggling with these unaffordable and unsustainable mortgages, it will take years for our communities to recover from this crisis" Rep. Waters said. "This is why I support Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Chairman Sheila Bair's plan to systematically reduce foreclosures. Unfortunately, the Bush Administration has failed to implement her plan on a wide scale. My legislation takes Chairman Bair's plan and gives it the force of law." "Servicers have been telling us-- and we have been telling them-- that it is cheaper to modify than it is to foreclose. Even so, foreclosure rates have continued to climb," Rep. Waters explained. "This legislation will finally get the servicers to realize that loan modification benefits the investors as well as the homeowner." The FDIC plan has been successfully implemented at IndyMac Federal Bank. Because of the plan, over 5,000 IndyMac borrowers have avoided foreclosure and stayed in their homes with more affordable mortgages. If applied nationally, 2.2 million mortgages could be modified. "This systematic approach is precisely what we need to keep more families in their homes. Unfortunately, while Secretary Paulson recently required Citigroup to implement the FDIC loan modification program as a condition for receiving TARP funds, he refuses to implement the plan nationwide. America's homeowners are every bit as deserving of a bailout as the fat cats on Wall Street who created this crisis. If my legislation is enacted, America's homeowners will finally receive the help they have been asking for." ###
07.27.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) today introduced H.R. 37, the "Systematic Foreclosure Prevention and Mortgage Modification Act of 2009." The legislation is designed to dramatically reduce the number of foreclosures by establishing a systematic approach to modifying troubled mortgages. Rep. Waters, Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, and most senior Member of the Financial Services Committee from California, reintroduced this legislation on the very first day of the 111th Congress because of the urgency of the nation's foreclosure crisis. She had introduced it during the 110th Congress, but Congress ran out of time before it could consider the bill. "The foreclosure crisis continues to spiral out of control," Rep. Waters said. "To date, the government's response has been woefully inadequate. The Hope for Homeowners program is undersubscribed by servicers and the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) has not been used for mortgage modifications. Although the HOPE Now Alliance brags that it has prevented 2.2 million foreclosures, the fact remains that HOPE Now members are still refusing to substantially modify loans. HOPE Now members continue to offer more repayment plans than loan modifications, resulting in ‘modified' loans that are sometimes every bit as unaffordable as the original loan. As a result, HOPE Now is totally inadequate and will not make a dent in the number of foreclosures expected to overwhelm this country in the next few years." According to Realty Trac, foreclosures increased more than 71 percent in the third quarter of 2008 compared to a year ago. Credit Suisse estimates that 8 million homes, representing 16 percent of all mortgages, will be in foreclosure in the next 4 years. "The only effective foreclosure prevention program being used now was developed by Federal Deposit Insurance Commissioner (FDIC) Chairman Sheila Bair to assist borrowers at IndyMac Federal Bank," Rep. Waters stated. "Chairman Bair has shown that servicers will participate if given appropriate incentives, and a comprehensive loan modification program can prevent foreclosures can on a large scale. The key to Chairman Bair's program is its systematic approach to foreclosure mitigation. She has proved that addressing foreclosures systematically is more effective than the current one-on-one programs. This is why last year I introduced H.R. 7326, the Systematic Foreclosure Prevention and Mortgage Modification Act, which takes Chairman Bair's plan and gives it the power of law." The FDIC plan pays mortgage servicers $1,000 for each modification, and the government shares up to 50 percent of any loss if a modified loan re-defaults. The cornerstone of the plan is the requirement that participating servicers must systematically review all loans in their portfolios. Each loan will be subjected to a net present value test to determine whether it is more beneficial to modify or to foreclose. Loans passing the test must be modified. "Congress failed to act on my legislation last year. I strongly urge Congress to pass my legislation in order to reduce the number of foreclosures that are devastating our communities and neighborhoods," Rep. Waters stated. The FDIC plan has been successfully implemented at IndyMac Federal Bank, enabling over 5,000 IndyMac borrowers to avoid foreclosure and stay in their homes with more affordable mortgages. If applied nationally, 2.2 million mortgages could be modified. "I agree with the need for economic stimulus; however, unless we deal with the foreclosure crisis head on, any economic stimulus plan will come to naught," Rep. Waters said. "We simply can't stimulate the economy while allowing millions of families to be foreclosed upon. Stemming the tide of foreclosures will put the nation back on the road to economic recovery." Rep. Waters' bill has the support of 12 original co-sponsors. Senator Diane Feinstein of California introduced S. 73, the Senate companion bill, today. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) reiterated her support for funding for the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) in the economic recovery package now under consideration in the Senate. NSP was established to stabilize neighborhoods suffering from the effects of high foreclosure rates and declining home values. In areas with high concentrations of foreclosures property values have deteriorated. Congresswoman Waters said, "Foreclosure is devastating for the family that is losing their home. In addition, all of their neighbors suffer as properties fall into disrepair, are boarded up, have weeds growing in the lawn and might attract gangs or other criminal activity. Local governments have added expenses maintaining these properties and policing neighborhoods while at the same time not collecting revenue. Neighborhood stabilization funding enables communities to rehabilitate these properties so they can be sold or rented, helping families find housing, creating jobs, and keeping home values from plummeting." "Governors and mayors from all across America – Democrats and Republicans alike – are urging Congress and the Administration to recognize their need for federal support to help them cope with the economic downturn and the foreclosure crisis at a time when their state and local budgets are under severe stress. I encourage them to tell the Senate how important neighborhood stabilization funding is and to explain why it should be included in the economic recovery package," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters, Chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, helped create the NSP last year and succeeded in getting $4 billion in additional NSP funding included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (H.R. 1), the House version of the economic recovery package, which the House of Representatives passed last week. "Funding for neighborhood stabilization enables states and localities to buy and rehabilitate foreclosed and abandoned properties. These funds clearly can help stimulate the economy, create jobs, help homeowners and generate revenue – including real estate taxes – for local and state governments now facing difficult budget decisions and weighing drastic cuts to important programs," Congresswoman Waters said. She added, "Unfortunately some Republicans in Congress and their allies in the media are portraying neighborhood stabilization funding in a misleading and inaccurate way. The initial NSP funding Congress allocated last year is now being distributed to state and local governments, including the City and County of Los Angeles, and is proving to be beneficial. Now we are hearing that more such funding is needed and being requested. Clearly, the right-wing propaganda machine is deliberately spreading falsehoods in an attempt to undermine bipartisan support for vital programs. Therefore, it is important for mayors, governors, other elected officials and community advocates to speak out and to express to the Senate and House the need for neighborhood stabilization funding." ###
07.27.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, and the most senior Member of the Financial Services Committee from the State of California, today introduced the Honest FHA Originator Act of 2009 (H.R. 1116) with Housing Subcommittee members Rep. Jackie Speier (D-CA) and Rep. Steve Driehaus (D-OH). The legislation is designed to prohibit unscrupulous or unapproved lenders from participating in Federal Housing Administration (FHA) programs. "As we move forward in identifying effective models to fix the housing crisis, any lender with a record of engaging in dishonest business practices with consumers should be prohibited from benefiting from taxpayer dollars," Rep. Waters said. According to Credit Suisse, an estimated 8 million homes, representing 16 percent of all mortgages, will be in foreclosure in the next 4 years. In response, the White House introduced the "Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan," a comprehensive housing plan to help homeowners stay in their homes through the use of government-funded mortgage refinancing and loan modification plans. To ensure that bad actors cannot benefit from government programs at taxpayer expense, Rep. Maxine Waters introduced this bill to restrict participation from predatory lenders. "We must work together to ensure that an effective foreclosure mitigation program is in place to help keep homeowners in their homes. However, we must also make sure that the program contains the right rules to ensure that honest lenders are not thrown in the same pool as predatory lenders," Rep. Waters stated. "This is why I introduced the Honest FHA Originator Act of 2009, H.R. 1116, which prohibits predatory lenders from participating in FHA programs." The "FHA Originator Act of 2009" would require Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) approval of all parties participating in the FHA single family mortgage origination process. The legislation also makes clear that an applicant is ineligible for approval if the entity has engaged in activities unfit to meet the responsibilities of an approved mortgagee, including committing acts in violation of the S.A.F.E. Mortgage Licensing Act. "Fraudulent lenders who misrepresent themselves as HUD-approved entities in order to participate in FHA programs must be held accountable. My bill would give HUD the authority to impose a monetary penalty against loan originators who are not HUD-approved and yet participate in FHA mortgage originations," stated Rep. Waters. HUD would also be required to expand its processes for reviewing new applicants and identifying high risk applicants. Furthermore, the bill would require all FHA-approved mortgagees to use their licensed names and keep a copy of all advertisements. "During this economic crisis, Congress must respond diligently. I strongly urge Congress to pass my legislation so that we can ensure an effective and fair process to keep homeowners in their homes," Rep. Waters stated. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) voted today in favor of the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (H.R. 1106), legislation that will prevent foreclosures and help stabilize the housing market. The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act gives bankruptcy judges the ability to modify existing mortgages for families who file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy as an incentive to spur lenders into voluntarily modifying loans. It gives lenders the confidence to modify loans by protecting them from some lawsuits. The legislation also spurs mortgage refinancing by fixing the Federal Housing Administration's Hope for Homeowners Program, reducing fees and offering new incentives for lenders. "This legislation provides fairness and hope to families who are facing foreclosure. Families who own one home deserve the same right to keep their home when they face bankruptcy as investors and speculators who own two or three homes, but under current law they do not have the same protection," said Congresswoman Waters. "Without spending one federal dollar, this legislation could keep hundreds of thousands of families across the country from facing foreclosure and losing their homes." Congresswoman Waters had a unique opportunity to work on both the housing provisions of the legislation as Chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee and on the judicial mortgage modification provisions as a member of the Judiciary Committee. Congresswoman Waters said, "Stabilizing the housing market is central to restoring the American economy. We all stand to lose if we do not stop the steep decline in home prices. In fact, each foreclosed home reduces nearby property values by as much as 9 percent. I will continue to work with President Obama to help the 7 to 9 million American families at risk of losing their homes and to protect their neighbors from losing value in their homes." Home prices dropped 18 percent in the last quarter of 2008. More than 14 million homeowners owe more on their mortgage than their home is worth, making it difficult for them to refinance and putting many at risk of foreclosure. President Obama's comprehensive Homeowner Affordability and Stability Plan working in conjunction with H.R. 1106 and other Congressional initiatives will help many homeowners refinance and prevent foreclosure. H.R. 1106 also includes a provision authored by Congresswoman Waters that will ensure that FHA loan programs -- which have been helping families to refinance into safer mortgages -- are out of bounds for the very worst subprime lenders who created this mortgage mess in the first place. Lenders participating in the FHA home mortgage insurance program will be required to be approved by HUD and better ensures that predatory lending entities and individuals are not allowed to participate in FHA programs. Congresswoman Waters had introduced this provision recently as a separate bill the Honest FHA Originator Act (H.R. 1116). "I am pleased that the House included this provision and passed it as part of the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act. Predatory lenders should not be allowed to participate in government programs at taxpayer expense," she said. Among the details of President Obama's foreclosure prevention plan announced yesterday is a website, www.financialstability.gov, which includes an eligibility quiz for homeowners struggling to make their payments. In California, more than 9.1% of mortgages were past due as of December 2008. The national rate for delinquent loans was almost 7.9%. ###
07.27.2009	The House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity chaired by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), today held a hearing to examine the Obama Administration's plan to prevent foreclosures by helping homeowners modify and refinance troubled mortgages. Congresswoman Waters said, "The ‘Making Home Affordable' plan is a great first step toward fixing the housing crisis. Today we heard from a diverse group of witnesses including Administration officials, economists, academics and consumer advocates representing various perspectives, and I believe we gained a better understanding of how this plan can help millions of American families remain in their homes." A video of today's hearing as well as the written testimony of the witnesses can be found at https://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/financialsvcs_dem/hr031909.shtml Congresswoman Waters' opening statement follows: Today's hearing will examine the White House's plan to prevent foreclosures and keep families in their homes through the modification and refinancing of troubled mortgages. I have identified foreclosure prevention and loan modifications as a priority for Subcommittee oversight. In February, we held a hearing on mortgage servicers and challenges to providing more effective loan modifications for troubled mortgages. Today we will hear from government agencies and experts in the field to gain a better understanding and assessment of the President's plan and how it will assist troubled homeowners. As we will hear today, a systematic loan modification program is necessary to streamline foreclosure mitigation efforts. Since day one, I have been a supporter of enacting a systematic modification program. On the first day of the 111th Congress, I introduced legislation—H.R. 37, the Systematic Foreclosure Prevention and Mortgage Modification Act of 2009—to put such a plan in action. The President's plan builds upon my legislation. In addition to learning about the President's foreclosure prevention plan, I hope that this hearing will also provide Members with an in-depth analysis of the types of loan modifications that have been effective in preventing foreclosures and re-defaults. I believe this information will assist us in understanding the role of the President's plan in fixing the housing crisis. Loan modifications — changing the terms of the loan — are essential to ending the foreclosure crisis. According to Realty Trac, in 2008, 2.3 million households were in some stage of the foreclosure process, an 81 percent increase from 2007 and a 225 percent increase from 2006. The foreclosure crisis shows no signs of slowing down with Credit Suisse estimating that 8.1 million homes will enter foreclosure over the next four years. The President has recognized the urgency of the foreclosure crisis with the release of the Making Home Affordable Program. I am interested to hear how the plan will provide fast and effective relief to troubled homeowners and begin the process of stabilizing the housing markets. The government witnesses today will discuss their collaboration to implement the President's plan. We will also hear about the obstacles that are preventing borrowers from staying in their homes. According to a study by First American CoreLogic, there are a growing number of underwater loans – loans where the mortgaged property is worth less than the amount owed on the loan. As of December 31, 2008, more than 8.3 million U.S. mortgages, or 20 percent of all mortgaged properties, were underwater. Another 2.2 million are approaching this point. The witnesses today will shed light on the types of loan modifications that may work best for these types of troubled homeowners. In closing, I would like to comment on the urgent need for foreclosure assistance, and I would like to commend the President and his Administration in their swift action to respond to this growing crisis. Millions of families are struggling with their mortgages and millions more are at risk of losing their homes. Saving the housing markets and keeping families in their homes will require serious effort from all key players. Congress, the Administration, banks, mortgage servicers, and borrowers must work together to implement a plan to stop the rising tide of foreclosures and keep millions of families in their homes. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted today to drastically toughen the enforcement and prosecution of mortgage and corporate fraud. The House passed the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act, which will provide essential funding and tools to help law enforcement pursue and prosecute the type of fraud many blame for the worst financial crisis in decades. Congresswoman Waters expressed her strong support for the legislation because it protects consumers, prevents mortgage and financial fraud schemes and holds those guilty of such schemes accountable through tough enforcement and prosecution. "This bill strengthens and modernizes consumer protections for mortgage lending. The legislation specifically extends liability to those mortgage lending companies, their employees and agents who make false statements on mortgage applications," Congresswoman Waters said. "Most importantly, it authorizes $165 million in additional funds for enforcement of consumer protections, allowing agencies such as the FBI and Department of Justice to staff teams whose sole goal is preventing mortgage and financial fraud schemes." Congresswoman Waters chaired a hearing earlier today of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee to hear from state and federal law enforcement officials about the growing problem of fraud against consumers seeking loan modifications or foreclosure rescue – and steps being taken to prevent such scams. The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network reported a 22 percent increase in suspicious activity reports involving mortgage fraud. The bill Congress passed today will help reduce such fraud. The legislation will also establish a bipartisan commission to investigate the causes of the collapse of our financial system and the ensuing recession. The investigative commission will have subpoena power and will seek to bring accountability to a system where reckless behavior has gone unchecked in the past. This commission is similar to the Pecora Commission, which was established to investigate the 1929 stock market crash and uncovered the fraudulent and unscrupulous practices on Wall Street that led to the Great Depression. Its work laid the groundwork for the regulatory structure that served this country for decades. In fact, the weakening of that regulatory framework created the conditions leading to our current economic crisis. "It's clear that the regulations we have in place now are not working," explained Congresswoman Waters. "We need to understand what conditions led to this crisis as we move forward with commonsense reforms to prevent it from happening again in the future." The Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act is the latest in a series of consumer protection and financial reforms recently passed by the House. The House passed the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights last week, including tough new protections for consumers facing excessive credit card fees, sky-high interest rates and unfair agreements that credit card companies revise at will. Later this week, the House is expected to vote on the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act to curb abusive and predatory lending. "This Congress is committed to protecting consumers, reforming our financial system and demanding accountability," said Congresswoman Waters. "We are doing everything possible to rebuild our economy in a way that's fair and consistent with our values." ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted today to protect American consumers, helping the House of Representatives pass legislation that curbs abusive practices and predatory lending in the mortgage industry. The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act outlaws many of the egregious industry actions that marked the subprime lending boom and led to the nation's highest foreclosure rate and worst economic crisis in decades. The bill also marks a key step in the overhaul of the nation's financial regulations. "The subprime meltdown is causing 6,600 foreclosures every day, reducing the property values of 73 million American homeowners, strangling the credit markets and crippling our largest financial institutions," said Congresswoman Waters. "The legislation we passed today will protect consumers in California and nationally from abusive loans and protect tenants who rent homes that go into foreclosure. We are ensuring that a financial crisis like this, which started with irresponsible subprime lending, never happens again. This is significant progress for the American people." Specifically, the Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act ensures that mortgage lenders make loans that benefit the consumer and prohibits them from steering borrowers into higher cost loans. It will, in effect, prevent borrowers from deliberately misstating their income to qualify for a loan. For the first time ever, it holds accountable all of those who originate, sell and buy loans, including those on Wall Street who buy up and bundle mortgages for profit. The bill goes further toward reforming our financial system and demanding accountability by establishing standards for all home loans. Institutions will be required to ensure that borrowers can repay the loans they are sold. It also requires that all mortgage refinancing loans benefit the consumer and encourages the market to move back toward fully documented loans. "Irresponsible predatory lending practices caused the current financial crisis," said Congresswoman Waters. "Our legislation goes a long way toward preventing that type of behavior and protecting Americans from the unscrupulous practices that have characterized the mortgage industry in recent years." The Mortgage Reform and Anti-Predatory Lending Act builds upon the other consumer protection legislation recently passed by the House, including the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights and the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act. Under Democratic leadership, the House continues to bring commonsense reforms to the financial system, demanding accountability and incorporating tougher consumer protections. "With this bill, with the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights we passed last week and the Financial Markets Commission we voted to establish yesterday, we are taking concrete steps toward reforming our financial system and rebuilding our economy in a way that is fair and consistent with our values," said Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee. ###
07.27.2009	The House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, chaired by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), today held a hearing to examine how housing counseling is being offered to vulnerable homeowners through NeighborWorks – a congressionally chartered corporation – and national housing counseling intermediaries. "With 2.4 million foreclosures expected through the end of 2009, according to the Center for Responsible Lending, it will become increasingly important to ensure that housing counseling is effective, efficient and non-duplicative. We must make certain that housing counseling will reach the greatest number of homeowners possible and will produce real, sustainable solutions," Congresswoman Waters said. In particular, Congresswoman Waters is concerned about whether the $410 million in federal funding provided to NeighborWorks through its National Foreclosure Mitigation Counseling program is distributed to eligible entities in a way that helps homeowners avoid foreclosure. The latest report to Congress from NeighborWorks notes that 69 percent of all counseling performed includes intake and developing a budget, rather than in-depth counseling that results in loan modifications or repayment plans. The Congresswoman is also concerned about NeighborWorks' reimbursement policies, and whether intermediaries performing counseling receive reimbursements that cover the true cost of the services they perform. Without adequate reimbursements, many of these intermediaries will not be able to continue to assist homeowners. NeighborWorks, created originally as the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation, has a mission to expand affordable rental and homeownership housing opportunities and to strengthen distressed urban, suburban and rural communities. The corporation provides services to a national network of affiliates that includes more than 230 nonprofit community-based organizations, representing more than 4,450 communities in all 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. With the current scale of the foreclosure crisis, providing these services presents significant challenges. Representatives from national housing counseling intermediaries testified to the fact that their job is made more difficult by many mortgage servicers that are uncooperative, unresponsive and don't have the necessary infrastructure in place to deal with distressed homeowners. "Although the Making Home Affordable program is a good start, given these challenges, it is clear that unless servicers are required to engage in loss mitigation, the rate of foreclosures will only continue to increase," Congresswoman Waters noted. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) hailed the passage by both the House and Senate today of the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act (S. 896), legislation that she believes will help American families and communities weather the current housing and financial crises. Congresswoman Waters said, "This legislation is appropriately named because it truly will help families save their homes at a time when many are anxious about foreclosure and even homelessness." As Chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, Congresswoman Waters played a leading role in shaping two provisions that are included in the bill, one to prevent the worst subprime lenders who have preyed on prospective homebuyers from participating in Federal Housing Administration (FHA) loan programs – which help families refinance into safer mortgages. Congresswoman Waters also worked with Senator Patrick Leahy (D-VT) to improve the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) to allow states that have received the minimum NSP funding to shift resources to target areas most at risk of foreclosure. The bill also includes provisions such as an update to the McKinney-Vento Homelessness Assistance Program, which will provide an additional $2.2 billion to the program for Fiscal Year 2010 and redefine "homeless" so as to protect families with children and families who will lose their homes in a window as short as 14 days. "Over the last two years the housing bubble burst, and millions of Americans have lost their homes. Millions more are now teetering on the edge. This legislation will prevent many foreclosures and help strengthen the housing market," Congresswoman Waters said. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), chairwoman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today chaired the subcommittee's second hearing this year to examine a discussion draft of the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act (SEVRA), legislation that Chairwoman Waters plans to re-introduce soon. The legislation is designed to improve the funding and administration of the Section 8 voucher program, which provides housing assistance for two million low-income households nationwide. Congresswoman Waters introduced SEVRA in the 110th Congress, and it passed the House of Representatives on July 12, 2007 on a bipartisan vote of 333 to 83. Shaun Donovan, secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, testified at a previous hearing on SEVRA on May 21 that he is optimistic about the discussion draft and that SEVRA represents "a key step in improving" the Section 8 voucher program. Witnesses at today's hearing included housing authority industry groups, low-income housing and homelessness advocates and a Housing Choice Voucher resident. Witness testimony and additional materials from the hearing can be viewed at https://www.house.gov/apps/list/hearing/financialsvcs_dem/hrhc060409.shtml Congresswoman Waters' opening statement follows: I would like to thank the Ranking Member, Shelley Moore Capito, and the other Members of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity for joining me for our second hearing on "The Section 8 Voucher Reform Act." At our first hearing, we were joined by HUD Secretary Shaun Donovan who testified about the need for this legislation and its importance in protecting the continued viability of the Section 8 program which provides housing assistance for two million low-income families nationwide. Today we will hear from residents, housing advocates, housing authorities, and the housing managers who deal with this program on a day-to-day basis and will be directly affected by this legislation. This is legislation that has broad support, including the support of 72 housing and redevelopment stakeholders in California, including the California Housing Partnership. These groups have sent a letter of support, which I would ask unanimous consent to enter into the record. Over the years the Section 8 program — which pays the difference between 30 percent of a tenant's income and the fair market rent — has become increasingly complicated for residents and the public housing agencies (PHAs) that administer the program. Residents must routinely re-verify their income through a time consuming, error-prone process. As we will hear from Ms. Robinson, the inspections process, although well-intended, can actually prevent a tenant from leasing a unit due to the need for minor repairs. The proposed bill would simplify these processes by streamlining the rent determination process, requiring certifications less often, and improving inspections by allowing PHAs to perform some repairs. The proposed bill also addresses the funding formula for the Section 8 program. Because of a drastic Bush Administration change to how vouchers were funded, over 150,000 vouchers were lost. I agree with the assessment of Secretary Donovan who testified that the changes to the funding formula "contributed to a slide in funding utilization." In fact, in order to make up lost funding, PHAs limited services to residents and even began to restrict or deny moves to higher cost areas. While the Democratic Congress has corrected this funding formula, the program has still not achieved the same leasing levels as it had before the formula change. In short, the voucher program serves fewer people today than it did in 2004. Last year, only 90 percent of authorized vouchers were under lease. In 2004, 96 percent of vouchers were under lease. The legislation before us would establish a sustainable and transparent formula that would ensure that would stop the reductions in voucher use and actually increase the number of families assisted through the program. The draft we will be discussing today does not include the Moving-to-Work program, which allows about 30 PHAs to waive most of the rules that govern public housing and Section 8. As I stated at our first hearing, Chairman Frank and I have agreed that there will be a Moving-to-Work component to this bill, I would like to reiterate the concerns I have about the Moving-to-Work program. First, I am deeply concerned about the imposition of time limits and work requirements by Moving-to-Work agencies. Second, I am aware that there has been a substantial decrease—by one estimate 24,000 vouchers have gone unused—in the number of vouchers issued by Moving-to-Work agencies. Lastly, there has never been a thorough evaluation of the Moving-to-Work program. I look forward to hearing our witnesses' on these very important issues and would now like to recognize Ranking Member Capito for her opening statement. ###
07.27.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chairwoman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, today introduced H. Res. 582 recognizing children's right to adequate housing. The resolution builds off recent efforts by Congress and the Obama Administration to address homelessness in the nation. "It's important that Congress acknowledge the fundamental right of children to adequate housing. Nearly 200,000 children and youth are homeless each night in America. It is appalling and unacceptable that so many children are living on the streets without shelter. The dangers of not having safe and adequate housing are especially harmful to children's health and development," said Congresswoman Waters. According to the National Alliance to End Homelessness, hundreds of thousands of American children will be homeless over the course of a year and millions more are living in substandard, overcrowded, or precarious situations, placing them at heightened risk of illness, serious injury, hunger, and educational delay. H. Res. 582 is a reminder that an unacceptably large number of children and youth in the country experience homelessness every year and calls for the creation and development of programs at the federal, state, and local levels to address the housing needs of low-income children and youth at risk of becoming homeless. In May of this year, both the House and Senate overwhelmingly passed S.896, the Helping Families Save Their Homes Act, which included the Homeless Emergency Assistance and Rapid Transition to Housing (HEARTH) Act, which Congresswoman Waters was instrumental in drafting. President Obama signed S.896 into law on May 20. The HEARTH Act provides better tools and significantly increases resources to communities to prevent and end homelessness. Furthermore, it improves upon the role of the Interagency Council on Homelessness (ICH) to coordinate a federal response to homelessness and create a national partnership with every level of government and the private sector to address homelessness in the nation. Last week, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan, along with U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki, held the first meeting of the ICH under the new Obama Administration. "I would like to commend President Obama for signing S.896 into law, which includes the HEARTH Act, improving upon the role of the Interagency Council on Homelessness (ICH) and ensuring communities have new resources and tools to address homelessness. My resolution upholds the mission of the ICH to prioritize projects and coordinate programs at every level of government to prevent and end homelessness in this country," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.27.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters, Chairwoman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, and Rep. Barney Frank, Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, have introduced landmark legislation to reform the Section 8 voucher program. H.R. 3045, the "Section 8 Voucher Reform Act of 2009" (SEVRA) would expand and improve the Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher program, which provides subsidized housing vouchers for 2 million families. "The Section 8 program is more important now than ever before," Chairwoman Waters stated. "The economic recession and the foreclosure crisis have placed affordable housing and the low-income families who need it at risk. The Section 8 program must be reformed and expanded so that it can effectively respond to this crisis." SEVRA would authorize an additional 150,000 new vouchers, simplify inspections, reform the rent setting process, and improve the funding formula for the Section 8 program. "The Bush Administration played games with how the Section 8 program was funded and housing authorities still haven't recovered from the changes to the funding formula," Rep. Waters said. "As a result, we have lost over 150,000 housing vouchers. My bill would permanently correct this formula and provide housing authorities with stable funding levels so that no tenant is ever at risk of losing housing assistance." The bill would also reform the Moving-to-Work program, which currently allows about 30 public housing agencies to experiment with different rent structures and programs. "I have serious concerns about the Moving-to-Work program," Rep. Waters stated. "This is why SEVRA reforms this program by requiring a rigorous evaluation and including strong tenant protections." In 2007, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1851, an earlier version of the Section 8 Voucher Reform Act, on a bipartisan vote of 333-83. The Senate failed to take any action on the legislation. "I hope that we can quickly provide the President with a bill for signature. Housing authorities and the families they serve shouldn't have to wait any longer for the reforms in this bill." Rep. Judy Biggert (R-IL), Rep. Steve Cohen (D-TN), and Rep. Joe Baca (D-CA) joined Chairwoman Waters and Chairman Frank as original co-sponsors. ###
07.27.2009	Financial Services Housing Subcommittee Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA) today introduced H.R. 3139, new legislation to authorize the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) through March 31, 2010. The current program is due to expire at the end of September 2009 unless Congress acts to extend it. In addition, Waters and Frank announced their intention to draft a new bipartisan measure to reform the NFIP. The updated legislation would incorporate important NFIP reforms previously approved by the House in 2007 and consider new studies and information not available when the Committee last reviewed the NFIP. Frank and Waters also plan to engage the Obama Administration and FEMA officials, and they invite recommendations for the reform legislation from all interested parties. "The National Flood Insurance Program is set to expire in September—right in the middle of hurricane season," Chairwoman Waters said. "We saw the importance of this program following Hurricane Katrina and other storms that have devastated the Gulf Coast. Letting the program expire in the middle of hurricane season would have serious repercussions for areas prone to flooding. A six-month extension is prudent and necessary." "This program is very important and very much in need of revision" said Chairman Frank. "Passing an extension of the act will prevent any gap in the important work it does while giving us the chance to improve it both from the economic and environmental perspectives." Created in 1968, the NFIP provides over one trillion dollars of flood insurance to more than five and a half million American homes and businesses. Today's introduction affirms the House leadership's commitment to a national flood program that effectively and efficiently manages the ever-present risk of flooding to our nation's homes and businesses. ###
07.21.2009	Today, on the Floor of the House of Representatives, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) offered an amendment to express the sense of Congress that national elections should not be held in the Republic of Haiti until conditions have been established to ensure that the elections will be free and fair. The U.S. Government and the interim government of Haiti are persisting in their plans to hold elections in October and November of this year despite widespread insecurity and violence throughout Haiti. "Until all candidates for office can travel safely throughout Haiti, they cannot be expected to campaign for office," said the Congresswoman. "Until American citizens can travel to Haiti without risking their lives, they cannot be expected to monitor Haitian elections, and until the people of Haiti can walk outside of their homes in peace, they cannot be expected to vote." Congresswoman Waters' amendment lists the following conditions as critical to the conduct of free and fair elections in Haiti: The disarmament of all gangs and illegally armed groups. An end to kidnappings of civilians. Security for all United States citizens working in Haiti. The establishment of security throughout Haiti in order to enable all candidates to campaign for office safely. Plans to provide security at all polling places. Plans to ensure security for United States and international election monitors. Fair trials or release for all persons in Haiti who are being detained without trial. Respect for internationally recognized human rights. "Violence in Haiti has been escalating over the past year," Congresswoman Waters explained. "Members of the Lavalas political party are murdered routinely. Kidnappings are commonplace, and security is non-existent. The interim government of Haiti has been unable to disarm the gangs that roam the country, enforce the rule of law, or provide security to citizens and foreigners. The Haitian National Police contribute to the violence through summary executions and other forms of brutality. This is not an atmosphere that is conducive to the organization of free and fair elections." The Congresswoman's amendment was offered to H.R. 3057, the Foreign Operations Appropriations Act, and was ruled out of order based on a technical interpretation of House rules. "My amendment would have made it clear that the United States Congress does not support holding elections in the current atmosphere of widespread insecurity and violence," said Congresswoman Waters. "I am disappointed that my colleagues did not have an opportunity to pass my amendment." ###
07.21.2009	Yesterday, the U.S. House of Representatives unanimously passed U.S. Representative Maxine Waters' (CA-35) Resolution commending the people of Haiti for democratic elections and congratulating the President-elect of Haiti Rene Garcia Preval on his victory. "I have always been deeply concerned about poor and developing countries and particularly Haiti," Waters said. "The people of Haiti deserve the same compassion, support and opportunity, as other debt-ridden countries and fledgling democracies. The newly-elected government will need both financial and technical assistance to begin the difficult task of national reconciliation and re-development." Congresswoman Waters has been a leader in debt relief for poor countries. Last year, she re-introduced the JUBILEE Act, a bill to cancel the debts of 50 of the world's poorest countries - including Haiti. In addition to passing the Resolution, Congresswoman Waters urged the U.S. Congress to support President Bush's Aid package request for Haiti in the Foreign Ops Appropriations bill for Fiscal Year '07. "Last week, I visited Haiti with Congressman Mark Foley (FL) to re-affirm the commitment of the Congress to the success of Haiti," said Rep. Waters. "I urge President Bush and my colleagues, on both sides of the aisle, to put actions behind words and support this very important request for the government and for the people of Haiti." "This successful election is a victory for Democracy and a victory for the people of Haiti," Rep. Waters continued. "Let's now begin the process of improving the lives of the Haitian people and move forward in a bipartisan effort to help the people of Haiti build a better future for themselves and for their country." ###
07.21.2009	On June 6, 2006, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent a letter to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the Appropriations Committee and the Subcommittee on Foreign Operations Appropriations urging them not to cut emergency assistance for Haiti and Liberia. The letter was signed by 22 members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). The text of the letter follows: We write as members of the Congressional Black Caucus to ask you to include $40 million in emergency assistance for Haiti and $50 million in emergency assistance for Liberia in the Conference Report for the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006. These emergency appropriations were added to the Administration's supplemental request during congressional consideration. The Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act, as passed by the Senate, includes $40 million for Haiti to increase economic opportunities; support police, judicial and legal reforms; and address critical health needs. Both the House and the Senate versions of the bill include $50 million for Liberia to facilitate emergency employment activities; infrastructure development projects; democracy, human rights and rule of law programs; and activities to assist with the demobilization of ex-rebel combatants and their reintegration into society. None of these emergency appropriations were included in the Administration's original request. However, they are essential for the respective development of these countries. Both Haiti and Liberia recently held successful democratic elections. Large numbers of citizens in each of these countries proved their commitment to democracy by participating in the elections and lining up for hours to vote. Rene Garcia Preval was elected President of Haiti on February 7, 2006, during national elections in which more than 60 percent of registered voters participated. Ellen Johnson-Sirleaf was elected President of Liberia on November 8, 2005, in a run-off, following national elections in which 74 percent of registered voters participated. In addition, President Johnson-Sirleaf is the first woman to be elected president of any country in Africa. The populations of Haiti and Liberia have each suffered tremendously in past years as a result of poverty, political violence and oppression, and the challenges facing the newly elected governments of these countries are enormous. They will need the support and assistance of the United States to ensure national reconciliation and development and to improve the lives of their people. Now is the time for the United States to provide emergency assistance funds that will help these two newly elected governments build a better future for the people they serve. Therefore, we respectfully urge you to include $40 million for Haiti and $50 million for Liberia in the Conference Report for the Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006. We thank you for your attention to our concerns and look forward to working with you to promote democracy and development in Haiti and Liberia. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Donald Payne Barbara Lee John Conyers Charles Rangel Gregory Meeks Donna Christensen Eleanor Holmes Norton Edolphus Towns Elijah Cummings Melvin L. Watt Sheila Jackson-Lee Corrine Brown Kendrick B. Meek Robert C. "Bobby" Scott Diane Watson Cynthia McKinney Chaka Fattah Major R. Owens Alcee Hastings Juanita Millender-McDonald Julia Carson ###
07.21.2009	United States Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today introduced a resolution urging the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and other multilateral financial institutions to provide Haiti complete debt cancellation immediately. The resolution also urges the U.S. Secretary of the Treasury to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States within these institutions to accomplish this goal. Waters was able to garner bipartisan support for her resolution that includes senior members of the House Financial Services Committee and the House International Relations Committee as original co-sponsors. "The impoverished people of Haiti cannot wait, as suggested by the World Bank, until 2009 for debt cancellation," said Congresswoman Waters. "The IMF, the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank should cancel Haiti's debts now and allow President Preval and the newly elected government of Haiti to invest in social and economic development for the Haitian people." President Rene Garcia Preval was installed as President of Haiti last month, following democratic elections in which more than 60 percent of registered voters participated. "The cancellation of Haiti's debts will enable the newly-elected government of Haiti to improve healthcare, education and other essential government services; invest in critical infrastructure; and improve the lives of the Haitian people," said Congresswoman Waters. According to the IMF, Haiti owes over $1 billion dollars to multilateral financial institutions, including $9.1 million to the IMF, $566.7 million to the World Bank, and $470.9 million to the Inter-American Development Bank. Rep. Waters' resolution would expedite the process that would relieve Haiti of its debt burden and provide its newly elected government with a solid economic foundation as it moves into the future. ###
07.21.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) introduced a resolution in the House of Representatives to urge the IMF, the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and other multilateral financial institutions to cancel Haiti's multilateral debts immediately and completely. The resolution also urges the Secretary of the Treasury to use the voice, vote and influence of the United States within these institutions to accomplish this important goal. The resolution is cosponsored by senior members of the House Financial Services Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee. "Haiti is a country with tremendous development needs and numerous impediments to development," said Congresswoman Waters. "One of those impediments is a devastating burden of international debt." According to the IMF, Haiti owes over one billion dollars to multilateral financial institutions, including $21 million to the IMF, $507 million to the World Bank, and $534 million to the Inter-American Development Bank. Much of Haiti's debt burden was accumulated during the oppressive rule of the Duvalier regimes, neither of which used the money to benefit the Haitian people. The IMF estimates that Haiti will spend $56 million on debt service payments to multilateral creditors during the 2006-07 fiscal year. "These debt service payments are a drain on Haiti's fragile economy," said the Congresswoman. President Rene Garcia Preval was installed as President of Haiti last year, following democratic elections in which more than 60 percent of registered voters participated. "The cancellation of Haiti's debts will enable the democratically-elected government of Haiti to improve healthcare, education and other essential government services; invest in critical infrastructure; and improve the lives of the Haitian people," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D?CA) sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, urging him to use his influence to expedite the cancellation of Haiti's debts and to suspend further debt service payments from Haiti. The letter was signed by 54 members of the House of Representatives, including Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee. The text of the letter follows: We urge you to use your influence to expedite the cancellation of Haiti's debts to the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and other multilateral financial institutions and to urge an immediate suspension of all further debt service payments from Haiti to these institutions. As you know, these institutions have already agreed to cancel Haiti's debts, but under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, Haiti must complete a number of final steps before receiving debt cancellation. However, Haiti is the most impoverished country in the Western Hemisphere – many believe it should have been admitted to the HIPC process ten years ago – and for a number of reasons would benefit from an immediate cessation of debt service payments. Haiti endured two hurricanes last year, following three years of civil conflict and decades of environmental devastation. Tens of thousands of people have either lost their homes or seen them severely damaged. Thousands remain in temporary shelters, and the combination of the two storms last year has devastated harvests throughout the island. Given these circumstance, we feel that the people of Haiti would be better served if the government could use its limited resources to address the environmental crisis, improve healthcare, expand access to education, and reform the justice system. Haiti's government has already agreed to use the savings from debt service relief for these purposes. We think it would be best if Haiti reached the "completion point" for the HIPC process immediately and had its debts cancelled. In the interim, before such cancellation takes place, we urge you to call for an immediate suspension of all further debt service payments from Haiti to the multilateral financial institutions. We understand that Haiti is scheduled to send $48.7 million to these institutions in 2008. Clearly, this money would be better spent on basic infrastructure and poverty reduction for the Haitian people. We appreciate your continuing support for debt cancellation for poor countries, and we hope you will do everything in your power to suspend Haiti's debt service payments and expedite debt cancellation for Haiti. ###
07.21.2009	Today, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (D?CA) called on the President to provide emergency food aid to Haiti. She made the following statement: Yesterday, the United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon warned that the global food crisis has reached emergency proportions and threatens to wipe out seven years of progress in the fight against poverty. The situation is particularly dire in Haiti, which is already the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. According to the World Food Program, the average Haitian diet consists of only 1,640 calories. That's 460 calories less than the typical daily requirement of 2,100 calories. Reuters has reported that prices for some items in Haiti, such as rice, have doubled in the last six months. For several years, I have been trying to convince the international community to cancel Haiti's debts. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Haiti owes over one billion dollars to multilateral financial institutions. Haiti is scheduled to send $48.7 million in debt payments to these institutions this year. These debt service payments are a drain on Haiti's fragile economy, and they will continue to impede development unless Haiti can get debt cancellation. On February 28, 2008, I sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson, urging him to use his influence to expedite debt cancellation for Haiti and suspend immediately all further debt service payments from Haiti. This letter was signed by 54 members of the House of Representatives. Today, I call on the President to provide emergency food aid to Haiti without delay. I join several of my colleagues, including Foreign Affairs Committee Ranking Member Ileana Ros-Lehtinen and Western Hemisphere Subcommittee Chairman Eliot Engel, to call on the President to provide emergency food assistance to this impoverished nation. The people of Haiti have been waiting for years for relief from their debts, but they cannot wait for food. Haiti needs help now. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) again urged President Bush to act swiftly in providing emergency assistance to Haiti. Congresswoman Waters joined other members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) today in highlighting the dire situation in Haiti and calling for immediate action including emergency food assistance, debt relief and Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for Haitians who have fled the instability in their country and are currently residing in the U.S. "The people of Haiti are suffering and need our help immediately. In addition to the ongoing problems of extreme poverty, economic instability and political unrest, now a growing food crisis poses the threat of severe hunger and even starvation for tens of thousands of Haitians. America has a moral obligation to help our neighbors during this emergency -- and we have the capacity to do so," Congresswoman Waters said. Congresswoman Waters stated that the U.S. government, including the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and the U.S. Embassy in Haiti, should arrange for immediate shipments of food to Haiti and work with Haitian government officials and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to coordinate fair and effective distribution. Last night, Congresswoman Waters was informed that USAID is now planning to ship emergency food supplies from Texas to Haiti. "I am encouraged by this report that food will soon be sent to Haiti, and I call on the President to take all necessary and appropriate action to ensure that this food is distributed to those who need it," Congresswoman Waters said. Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere and has recently been affected by the global food crisis. Prices for some food items in Haiti, such as rice, have doubled in the last six months. According to the World Food Program, the average Haitian diet consists of only 1,640 calories, substantially fewer than the typical daily requirement of 2,100. Congresswoman Waters has been involved for years in efforts to help Haiti. She opposed the 2004 Haitian coup d'etat, which overthrew the democratically-elected government of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide. She also leads congressional efforts to cancel the debts that poor countries, including Haiti, owe to multilateral financial institutions like the World Bank so they can be free from the burden of international debts and instead pay for vital needs. Haiti owes more than $1 billion and is scheduled to pay more than $48 million in debt service this year. "This is money that could be spent to develop Haiti's economy and rebuild crumbling infrastructure. However, while debt cancellation is important, it will not feed hungry people. The people of Haiti need food, and they need it now," Congresswoman Waters said. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D CA) delivered a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, urging her to include at least $300 million in disaster assistance for Haiti in the supplemental appropriations bill or another appropriate bill. The letter was signed by 67 Members of Congress. Copies of the letter were delivered to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Committee on Appropriations. The text of the letter follows: We are writing to request that you include at least $300 million in appropriations for disaster assistance for Haiti following the devastating hurricanes that swept through that impoverished country. Over the past month, Haiti has been devastated by four deadly storms in rapid succession, Tropical Storm Fay, Hurricane Gustav, Tropical Storm Hanna, and Hurricane Ike. On Monday, the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) reported that 15,134 houses have been damaged or destroyed, and 154 people have been killed. As the flood waters began to recede, additional bodies have been found and buried. Tragically, the death toll may never be known. According to the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA), up to 800,000 people in Haiti are in dire need of humanitarian assistance. As of September 6th, more than 100,000 people had taken refuge in temporary shelters – and this was before the onslaught of Hurricane Ike. Many roads and bridges have been damaged or destroyed, and crops have been lost. There is a desperate need for food, water, and health services. Haiti is already the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. It does not have the capacity to respond to the widespread death and destruction caused by storms of this magnitude. Immediate assistance from the United States is critical to meet the emergency needs of the Haitian people and begin to rebuild damaged homes and infrastructure. We urge you to provide an appropriation of at least $300 million in disaster assistance for Haiti in the supplemental appropriations bill or another legislative vehicle that will be passed before Congress adjourns, and we look forward to working with you to help the people of Haiti rebuild their homes and their lives after these unprecedented storms. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader in Congress in efforts to assist Haiti, the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere, with democratization and economic development. She has also championed international debt cancellation for poor nations through legislation such as H. R. 2634, the Jubilee Act. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D?CA) called for a redoubling of efforts by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to treat hunger and malnutrition in Haiti. Her comments follow a report from the Associated Press that at least 26 severely malnourished children have died in the last four weeks in a remote region of Haiti. Aid workers fear the death toll could rise much higher. "I am appalled that children are starving to death in a country so close to America's borders. I call on USAID to take immediate action to locate all Haitian children who are in danger of starvation and ensure they are receiving appropriate nutrition therapy. Starving children and their families in remote areas should be evacuated if necessary in order to access medical treatment," said Congresswoman Waters. Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. Haiti's unemployment rate is nearly 80%, and an estimated 78% of the population lives on less than $2 per day. During the months of August and September, Haiti was devastated by four deadly hurricanes in rapid succession. According to USAID, these storms killed 793 people and destroyed 14.6% of the country's gross domestic product (GDP). More than 150,000 families were displaced from their homes, and more than 845,000 people (9% of the population) were directly affected. Haiti has also been impacted severely by the international food crisis. Prior to the hurricanes, the prices for staple foods had increased over 40% since the beginning of the year. Food prices have risen further in the aftermath of these storms, which washed crops away and caused almost $200 million in damage to the agricultural sector. "Congress is deeply concerned about poverty in Haiti, and we have provided USAID ample resources to address the needs of the Haitian people. Following the hurricanes, I initiated a request to congressional leaders for disaster assistance for Haiti, and Congress appropriated $100 million. It is now up to USAID to use these resources effectively to save lives," said the Congresswoman. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D?CA) sent a letter to World Bank President Robert B. Zoellick, urging him to grant complete debt cancellation to Haiti, the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere. The letter was signed by 72 members of the House of Representatives, including Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee; Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee; Howard Berman (D-CA), Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee; and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Copies of the letter were sent to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and Secretary of the Treasury Timothy Geithner. The text of the letter follows: We are deeply concerned about the urgent humanitarian needs of the people of Haiti and the difficulties Haiti has faced in qualifying for the cancellation of its debts. We urge you to suspend immediately all further debt service payments from Haiti and grant complete debt cancellation to this impoverished nation. We were disappointed to learn that Haiti's progress through the HIPC (Heavily Indebted Poor Countries) Initiative has been delayed as a result of recent natural disasters, economic shocks, and political developments – together with a number of conditions from the IMF. At this time last year, it was expected that Haiti would reach the "completion point" for the HIPC program and receive complete debt cancellation in the last quarter of 2008. Now, however, Haiti's expected "completion point" date has been pushed back to as late as July of 2009. We understand that Haiti is scheduled to send approximately $20 million to the World Bank in 2009. Clearly, this money would be better spent on basic infrastructure and poverty reduction for the Haitian people. As you recognized when you traveled to Haiti last October, the loss of life and the destruction of infrastructure in Haiti after last year's string of hurricanes and tropical storms has been devastating. Sharp increases in food and energy prices have also led to an escalation of hunger among the poorest sectors of the population. Moreover, Haiti can expect to be severely and negatively affected by the recent downturn in the economy of the United States. Not only does the United States serve as a valuable market for Haiti's exports, Haiti is also heavily dependent on remittances from Haitians living in the United States. Given these circumstances, we feel that the people of Haiti would be better served if the government was freed to use its limited resources to improve Haiti's democratic institutions, environmental conditions, basic infrastructure, healthcare, education, and justice system. Haiti's government has already acknowledged that the savings from debt relief would contribute significantly to its efforts towards these purposes. We therefore urge you to grant Haiti complete debt cancellation as soon as possible. In the interim, before such cancellation takes place, we urge you to suspend immediately Haiti's debt service payments and allow the Haitian government to focus its attention on the needs of its people. We appreciate your continuing support for debt cancellation and we look forward to your response. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman. Maxine Waters (CA-35) applauded the decision by the World Bank to provide complete debt cancellation to Haiti under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative. "The cancellation of Haiti's debts will enable the democratically-elected government of Haiti to improve health care, education and other essential government services; invest in critical infrastructure; and improve the lives of the Haitian people," said Congresswoman Waters. The World Bank announced yesterday that Haiti has reached the "completion point" for the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) Initiative, the program which governs debt relief from the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and other multilateral financial institutions to the world's poorest countries. This means that Haiti's debts to these institutions – which have been estimated to total $1.2 billion – will be completely cancelled. "Haiti is a country with tremendous development needs," said Congresswoman Waters. "Debt cancellation will allow Haiti to begin to use more of its resources to meet these needs." Congresswoman Waters has long been an advocate of debt cancellation for Haiti. On February 26, 2009, she sent a letter to World Bank President Robert B. Zoellick, urging him to grant complete debt cancellation to Haiti and to immediately suspend all further debt service payments from Haiti. This letter was signed by 72 members of the House of Representatives, including Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the Financial Services Committee; Spencer Bachus (R-AL), Ranking Member of the Financial Services Committee; Howard Berman (D CA), Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee; and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Ranking Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. In the 110th Congress, Congresswoman Waters introduced H.Res. 241, a resolution to urge the IMF and the World Bank to cancel Haiti's multilateral debts immediately and completely. This resolution received the support of 68 cosponsors before the 110th Congress adjourned last year. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced that she is circulating a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations seeking an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2006. "I urge all Members of Congress to sign my letter to the appropriators and support funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative at a level that will meet the critical needs of minority communities throughout the United States," said Congresswoman Waters. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, racial and ethnic minorities represent more than 70% of new AIDS cases in the United States. African Americans account for 49% of new AIDS cases, although only 13% of the population is black. Hispanics account for 20% of new AIDS cases, although only 14% of the population is Hispanic. Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders account for 1% of new AIDS cases, and American Indians/Alaska Natives account for up to 1%. "These statistics demonstrate the tremendous importance of the Minority AIDS Initiative," said the Congresswoman. "Clearly, racial and ethnic minorities shoulder a disproportionate burden of HIV and AIDS in the United States today." The Minority AIDS Initiative provides funds to community-based organizations, research institutions, minority-serving colleges and universities, health care organizations, state and local health departments, and correctional institutions to help them address the HIV/AIDS epidemic within the minority populations they serve. It enables organizations and providers to expand and strengthen their capacity to deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate care and services. The Initiative fills gaps in prevention, treatment, surveillance, infrastructure, outreach and education across communities of color. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2007. A bipartisan group of 119 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: We are writing to request that you provide an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2007. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, racial and ethnic minorities represent 72% of new AIDS cases and 65% of Americans living with AIDS. African Americans account for 49% of new AIDS cases, although only 13% of the population is black. Hispanics account for 20% of new AIDS cases, although only 14% of the population is Hispanic. Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders account for 1% of new AIDS cases, and American Indians/Alaska Natives account for up to 1%. Clearly, racial and ethnic minorities shoulder a disproportionate burden of HIV and AIDS in the United States today. These statistics demonstrate the tremendous importance of the Minority AIDS Initiative. This critical initiative provides funds to community?based organizations, research institutions, minority?serving colleges and universities, health care organizations, state and local health departments, and correctional institutions to help them address the HIV/AIDS epidemic within the minority populations they serve. Thus, it enables organizations and providers to expand and strengthen their capacity to deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate care and services. As a result, the Initiative fills gaps in prevention, treatment, surveillance, infrastructure, outreach and education across communities of color. We urge you to provide $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2007. We thank you for your attention to our concerns, and we look forward to working with you to expand programs for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS in minority communities throughout the United States. ###
07.21.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) unveiled legislation today that will—among other things—require mandatory testing for inmates upon entering a federal prison facility and, again, upon their release. Rep. Waters introduced, H.R. 6038, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act of 2006, to aggressively pursue and implement new policies that will curb the spread of HIV/AIDS in the African-American community—a trend that has been largely ignored by a majority of U.S. policy makers, elected officials, and civil rights leaders. "Negative attitudes toward and the stigma associated with mandatory testing are obsolete and pose a potentially lethal health risk, specifically to African Americans," said Rep. Waters. "The United States must start looking at mandatory testing in the context of prevention. We cannot allow the fear and ignorance rooted in a 25-year-old mindset to slow aggressive efforts to halt the progress of this disease, especially when African-American women make up nearly 70 percent of all new AIDS cases among women. Although African Americans make up only 12 percent of the U.S. population, we account for 50 percent of the new HIV/AIDS cases." Rep. Waters added, "I want this legislation to grab people's attention and force them to get serious about the fact that HIV/AIDS is disproportionately killing African Americans. It is killing our women, our men, destroying families, and I am sick and tired of weak responses to this medical emergency both nationally and in the African-American community. It is morally reprehensible that leaders in our community know about this issue and remain predominantly silent." The Stop AIDS in Prison Act of 2006 is another action taken by Rep. Waters who has been involved in the struggle to eradicate HIV/AIDS for more than 20 years. In addition to requiring mandatory HIV/AIDS testing for inmates entering federal prisons and again upon release, this legislation is designed to: • Stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among inmates. • Protect prison guards and other personnel from HIV/AIDS infection. • Provide comprehensive, timely medical treatment to inmates who are living with HIV/AIDS. • Promote HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention among inmates. • Encourage inmates to take personal responsibility for their health, get tested for HIV/AIDS and reward behavior that reduces the risks of HIV/AIDS transmission. • Significantly reduce the rate of inmates transmitting HIV/AIDS to their spouses, partners, or other people in the community following their release from prison. In addition to legislation, Rep. Waters will be conducting extensive public outreach to encourage all Americans to do everything possible to take personal responsibility for their own lives. "Enough is enough. It is time to launch a massive, coordinated nation-wide mobilization to roll back both the infection and mortality rates for HIV/AIDS in the U.S. and to stop its devastating impact on the African-American community. I am taking this fight to the streets, and I am going to spread the message that every American has to stop thinking, ‘this can't happen to me.' Instead, we all have to realize that every time someone has unprotected sex it could kill them." BACKGROUND In 1998, as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), Rep. Waters worked with community groups, the Clinton White House, and other CBC members to create the Minority AIDS Initiative (MAI), which provides grants to community-based organizations and other health care providers for HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs serving African-American, Hispanic, Asian-American and Native-American communities. Over the last eight years Rep. Waters has worked to successfully secure more than $2.8 billion for the program, and this year she has asked Congress to increase funding for the MAI by 53% over the 2006 level to $610 million. Rep. Waters is currently the Chair of the CBC's Domestic AIDS Task Force and has used her position to educate the public about HIV/AIDS prevention and advocated public policy to eliminate the spread of the disease. ###
07.21.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) applauded the release of a new report by the National Minority AIDS Council (NMAC) that focuses on addressing the rampant spread of HIV/AIDS in the African-American community. The report outlines a number of strategies designed to expand successful HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment, and testing programs; cut down on IV drug use and the transmission of HIV through shared needles; develop a comprehensive strategy to address the transmission of HIV in prison settings; reduce the stigma faced by African-American men who have sex with men; and increase funding for affordable housing for individuals and families living and dealing with HIV/AIDS to provide stability. Today, Rep. Waters released the following statement: "I want to thank NMAC for the important work it has done to put this report together and to further advance efforts to reduce the disturbingly high instances of HIV infection among African Americans and the disproportionately high number of African Americans being killed by this disease." "For too long, this epidemic has been ignored by the mainstream media. With every new report, every new finding, and every event that draws attention to this plight, it is my hope that journalists finally find something that will spark an interest in covering this story with the urgency it deserves. We need them to tell the stories of the mothers, daughters, husbands and sons who have lost their battles with HIV/AIDS. America needs to know that nearly 70 percent of the new HIV/AIDS cases among U.S. women are African American. They need to know that HIV/AIDS is the number one cause of death for African-American women between the ages of 24 and 34." "For years, I have worked to bring attention to the destructive impact HIV/AIDS has had on the African-American community and foster the development of solutions. As Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus during the 105th Congress, I worked with my colleagues and our allies in Congress to establish the Minority AIDS Initiative, and since it was founded, we have worked tirelessly to not only secure funding for this program, but to increase it in order to provide expanded outreach, education, and services to minority communities. During the Congressional funding process for 2007 I have circulated a letter asking to increase funding for the Initiative by 53 percent." "NMAC's report provides essential information that will help develop strategies to prevent new HIV infections and significantly decrease the number of African Americans who will die because of HIV/AIDS. Again, I am hopeful that the media will seize the opportunity to circulate this story and finally give the HIV/AIDS epidemic and its effect on the African-American community the type of attention that will generate national outrage at the way this disease has been allowed to progress. And then, maybe, this issue will finally be elevated to a national priority and maybe a comprehensive campaign will finally be launched to eradicate HIV/AIDS in the African-American community and throughout the nation." ### About U.S. Representative Waters: In 1998, as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), Rep. Waters worked with community groups, the Clinton White House, and other CBC members to create the Minority AIDS Initiative (MAI). The MAI provides grants to community-based organizations and other health care providers for HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs serving African-American, Hispanic, Asian-American and Native-American communities. Over the last eight years Rep. Waters has worked to successfully secure more than $2.7 billion for the program, and this year she has asked Congress to increase funding for the MAI by 53% over the 2006 level to $610 million. Rep. Waters is currently the Co-Chair of the CBC's AIDS Task Force and has used her position to educate the public about HIV/AIDS prevention and advocated public policy to stop the spread of the disease. She is anticipated to be the next Chair of the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity in the 110th Congress.
07.21.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus' HIV/AIDS Task Force and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, delivered the keynote address tonight at the first high-level summit focused on implementing the new guidelines for routine HIV screening in health care settings published by the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) this year in September. The AIDS summit was organized to explore the logistical, political, economic, social and ethical issues involved in carrying out the CDC's guidelines and was attended by the nation's preeminent policy makers and leading researchers in the field of HIV/AIDS. "All of the HIV/AIDS research is clear. Testing is a critical element to both stopping the spread of this disease and initiating the early intervention necessary to prolong the lives of individuals who test positive for the HIV virus," said Rep. Waters. "I am in complete agreement with the CDC's new guidelines because the public, and especially African Americans, who are disproportionately infected by and dying from this disease must start thinking of testing as a form of prevention and not just another medical procedure." In her speech, Rep. Waters discussed the importance of HIV testing and the fact that people who are tested and know their HIV status are less likely to contract or infect others with the disease. She gave an overview of the two HIV-related bills she recently introduced in Congress. The first, H.R. 6038, would make HIV testing for federal inmates a routine practice and the other, H.R. 6309, would instruct health insurance companies to cover routine HIV screenings as recommended by the CDC and prohibit the companies from denying coverage to individuals who are found to be HIV positive. Rep. Waters added, "Increasingly the face of HIV/AIDS in the United States is Black. And a reason that African-Americans account for 55 percent of AIDS-related deaths in the U.S. is that when we are eventually tested, the disease has progressed to the point that within 18 months the diagnosis becomes AIDS and many of the new drugs become ineffective. As African-Americans, we must take personal responsibility for saving our own lives, and the place to start is for each of us to learn our HIV status by getting tested for HIV." Click here for a copy of the speech. ###
07.21.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus' HIV/AIDS Task Force and a Senior Member of the House Judiciary Committee, made the following statement in observance of World AIDS Day: "Some 40 million people worldwide, including more than 1 million in the United States, are infected with one of the deadliest diseases known to mankind—for which the cure still remains unknown. That is why I am calling on leaders around the world to make 2007 the ‘Year of the Test.' Studies consistently show that whenever a person knows their HIV status, they are less likely to pass the disease on and more likely to seek out life-saving treatment. It is time to start thinking of HIV testing as a form of prevention and make them a routine part of health screenings." "The face of AIDS has changed tremendously over the past decade. When the disease was first discovered, most of its victims were gay, white men. Today, they are far more diverse. Women now account for 27% of new AIDS cases in the United States, and girls account for half of new AIDS cases among teenagers. As African Americans, we account for about half of new AIDS cases in the United States despite the fact that we only make up 13% of the population. African American women represent 70% of new AIDS cases among women, and African American teenagers represent 66% of new AIDS cases among teenagers. Over 70% of new AIDS cases are people of color, and the face of AIDS in the United States is increasingly black and female." "Why is it so important to use World AIDS Day as an opportunity to educate the residents of Los Angeles County about the risks of HIV and encourage everyone to get tested? Because there are more than 9.7 million people in Los Angeles County, and 21,000 of them are living with HIV. According to the Centers for Disease Control, 25 percent of the Americans living with HIV do not know they have the disease. So, in LA County, there are potentially more than 5,200 HIV positive people who have not been tested and are unaware of their status." "Los Angeles is one of the places were AIDS first appeared in the early 1980's, and since then, it has been seriously and disproportionately impacted by this tragic disease. The AIDS Semi-Annual Surveillance Summary conducted between January and June 2006 by the LA County Department of Public Health indicates the following: • Since the beginning of the epidemic, there have been a total of 51,011 reported AIDS cases in Los Angeles County. Almost 30,000 have died, and a total of 21,045 are still living with full-blown AIDS. • A total of 46% of the AIDS cases in LA County since the beginning of the epidemic have been White, 20% have been African American, and 31% have been Hispanic. • Of the adult and adolescent AIDS cases diagnosed in 2005, 25% were White, 25% were African American, and 46% were Hispanic. The rest were unknown." "These data are dramatic and convey an urgent message that our lifestyles and behaviors must change immediately in order to protect our population from dwindling and to protect our families from suffering. These numbers are the reason we must all work together to make sure that every person gets tested for HIV. The studies are very clear, when people get tested and know their HIV status, they are less likely to spread the disease, more likely to protect themselves from contracting the disease, and more likely to seek life-saving treatments if they find out they are HIV positive." "Most of the funding for HIV/AIDS outreach, treatment and prevention programs developed by Congress and administered by agencies within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services were designed when the face of AIDS was predominantly white and gay. However, very little of those funds went toward researching the spread of HIV in minority communities or developing culturally relevant prevention programs." "We must constantly reevaluate HIV/AIDS programs to ensure that the funding is being efficiently distributed and used as effectively as possible. Methods have been and will continue to be developed to help treat those already infected with HIV and to prevent others from becoming infected, but we must never lose sight of finding a cure. And, once again, I implore the world's leaders to make 2007 the ‘Year of the Test'." ###
07.21.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35), Chair of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to Dr. Elizabeth Duke, Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) under the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The purpose of the letter was to express concerns about a proposed change to HRSA housing policy, which would impose a 24-month cap on the use of Ryan White CARE Act (RWCA) funds for short-term and emergency housing. The Congresswoman's letter urges HRSA to reconsider the proposed cap, which would create significant barriers to effective care and treatment for persons living with HIV/AIDS. The text of the letter follows: I am concerned about the proposed amendment to the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) housing policy published on December 6, 2006, which would impose a cumulative lifetime cap of 24 months on the use of Ryan White CARE Act (RWCA) funds for short-term and emergency housing. This proposed policy change would create significant barriers to effective care and treatment for persons living with HIV/AIDS. Stable housing is essential for individuals with HIV/AIDS to achieve good medical outcomes. Under the recently enacted RWCA reauthorization, Congress confirmed that housing is an eligible activity for the 25% of RWCA dollars not reserved for core medical services. RWCA funds currently used for housing by Title I, II and IV grantees are small in relation to total RWCA funding but crucial in those communities that have prioritized housing for persons with HIV/AIDS. As Chair of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity of the House Financial Services Committee, I am acutely aware that a lack of affordable housing and severe rent burdens are serious problems in virtually every community across the country. In my own congressional district, for example, housing costs have spiraled, resulting in a deficit of more than 27,000 units of affordable housing for extremely low-income persons, including those living with the debilitating and impoverishing effects of HIV/AIDS. Sixty-six percent of extremely low-income households are severely rent-burdened, paying more than 50% of their income for rent. Stable and affordable housing options for low-income persons with HIV/AIDS are simply not available in many communities across the country. The proposed policy amendment would have a devastating impact on people with HIV/AIDS by separating medical treatment from stable housing. Research data collected by both the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) document the connection between stable housing and improved health outcomes for people with HIV/AIDS. Additional data supporting this connection was presented at HIV/AIDS and Housing Research Summits convened in 2005 and 2006 by the National AIDS Housing Coalition. The research presented included a study by the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia University and Bailey House, Inc. which demonstrates that homeless people with HIV who receive housing assistance are almost four times more likely to enter into medical care than those who receive case management only and twice as likely to receive appropriate, continuing care. In addition, lifetime caps on housing support deny persons with HIV/AIDS the flexibility necessary to allow their treatment to respond to the cyclical and often unpredictable nature of the disease. HIV is characterized by episodic health crises interspersed with periods of relatively good health. The length of these health crises can vary greatly. Therefore, it is critical that adequate time be given for treatment in each crisis. Imposing time limits on housing support interferes with treatment during prolonged health crises and, consequently, jeopardizes the health of persons with HIV/AIDS who depend upon housing support. The stated goal of the amendment of helping to "align the HRSA definition of short-term housing with the widely accepted program standard used by HUD" is not accomplished by the lifetime cap. Existing HUD-funded programs do not contain any lifetime caps. The Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program contains a 21-week annual limit on utilization of short-term assistance, and the Continuum of Care Homeless Assistance Program contains a general limitation of 24 months for transitional housing. However, neither of these limits are lifetime caps. Furthermore, these programs also contain exceptions for demonstrated medical or other special needs. I urge HRSA to reconsider the proposed 24-month lifetime cap on the use of RWCA funds for short-term and emergency housing. However, if the proposed policy is implemented, I recommend the inclusion of language that would allow a waiver of limitations on housing services in situations in which there is medical documentation of an individual's need for housing. I also recommend that HRSA allow a 36-month stay in the implementation of any policy change imposing time limits on housing support as it relates to existing clients in order to provide time for individual clients and social service agencies to identify alternative housing options. I thank you for your attention to my concerns, and I look forward to working with you to ensure stable housing and effective care and treatment for people living with HIV/AIDS. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced the introduction of the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act, a bill to require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV/AIDS tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. "Routine HIV/AIDS screening will allow thousands of African Americans and other infected individuals to find out about their infection, begin life-extending treatment, and avoid spreading the virus to others," said Congresswoman Waters. The Congresswoman made her announcement on the Floor of the House of Representatives during debate on H.Con.Res. 35, a resolution supporting the goals and ideals of National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, which will be celebrated this Wednesday, February 5, 2007. Congresswoman Waters urged her colleagues to support H.Con.Res. 35, which subsequently passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 396 to 0. "I urge my colleagues to support National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day, and I urge all Americans to educate themselves, act responsibly, get involved, and get tested for HIV/AIDS," said the Congresswoman. The Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act is one of several legislative initiatives Congresswoman Waters plans to pursue in the 110th Congress. She also plans to reintroduce the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, a bill to require routine HIV/AIDS screening of all federal prison inmates upon entry and prior to release from prison. The bill would also require HIV awareness education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. Finally, Congresswoman Waters will continue to advocate to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established in 1998, with the support of the Congressional Black Caucus and the Clinton Administration. The Minority AIDS Initiative provides grants for HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs that serve minority communities and enables health care providers to expand their capacity to serve these communities. The initiative received an initial appropriation of $166 million in fiscal year 1999 and was funded at slightly less than $400 million in the most recent spending cycle. "This year, I am calling for at least $610 million in funding to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative and redouble our efforts to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic, which has been especially devastating to African Americans and other communities of color," said the Congresswoman. ###
07.21.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) is continuing her fight to fully fund the Minority AIDS Initiative. Last Friday, Rep. Waters sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008. A bipartisan group of 45 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: We are writing to request that you provide an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, racial and ethnic minorities represent 71% of new AIDS cases and 64% of Americans living with AIDS. African Americans account for 50% of new AIDS cases, although only 12% of the population is black. Hispanics account for 19% of new AIDS cases, although only 14% of the population is Hispanic. Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders account for 1% of new AIDS cases, and American Indians/Alaska Natives account for up to 1%. Clearly, racial and ethnic minorities shoulder a disproportionate burden of HIV and AIDS in the United States today. These statistics demonstrate the tremendous importance of the Minority AIDS Initiative. This critical initiative provides funds to community based organizations, research institutions, minority serving colleges and universities, health care organizations, state and local health departments, and correctional institutions to help them address the HIV/AIDS epidemic within the minority populations they serve. Thus, it enables organizations and providers to expand and strengthen their capacity to deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate care and services. As a result, the Initiative fills gaps in prevention, treatment, surveillance, infrastructure, outreach and education across communities of color. We urge you to provide $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008. We thank you for your attention to our concerns, and we look forward to working with you to expand programs for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS in minority communities throughout the United States. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act of 2007. This bill requires routine HIV testing for all federal prison inmates upon entry and prior to release from Federal Bureau of Prison facilities. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS awareness education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other persons in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. Original cosponsors of the Stop AIDS in Prison Act include Rep. John Conyers, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Lamar S. Smith, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Robert C. Scott, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, which has jurisdiction over federal prisons; and Rep. Randy Forbes, Ranking Member of that subcommittee. "I am honored to have the support of Judiciary Committee leadership for the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, and I look forward to working with the House leadership to pass it," said the Congresswoman. "I am pleased to be a cosponsor of this important legislation. It is an important part of the effort to prevent the spread AIDS in prison and in the greater society by offenders once they leave prison. I look forward to working with Congresswoman Waters, the Chairman and Ranking Member of the full committee and the Ranking Member of the Subcommittee, in moving this legislation through the Congress," said Congressman Scott. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act is one of several legislative initiatives Congresswoman Waters is pursuing to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the 110th Congress. In February, she introduced H.R.822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act, a bill to require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. H.R. 822 now has 38 cosponsors. Congresswoman Waters also is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which was established under her leadership in 1998 to improve HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment in minority communities. On March 16, she sent a letter to Appropriations Committee leaders requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008. A bipartisan group of 45 Members of Congress signed her letter. Additional Members have agreed to sign a follow-up letter. ###
07.21.2009	Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008. A bipartisan group of 85 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: We are writing to request that you provide an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2008. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, racial and ethnic minorities represent 71% of new AIDS cases and 64% of Americans living with AIDS. African Americans account for 50% of new AIDS cases, although only 12% of the population is black. Hispanics account for 19% of new AIDS cases, although only 14% of the population is Hispanic. Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders account for 1% of new AIDS cases, and American Indians/Alaska Natives account for up to 1%. Clearly, racial and ethnic minorities shoulder a disproportionate burden of HIV and AIDS in the United States today. These statistics demonstrate the tremendous importance of the Minority AIDS Initiative. This critical initiative provides funds to community based organizations, research institutions, minority serving colleges and universities, health care organizations, state and local health departments, and correctional institutions to help them address the HIV/AIDS epidemic within the minority populations they serve. Thus, it enables organizations and providers to expand and strengthen their capacity to deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate care and services. As a result, the Initiative fills gaps in prevention, treatment, surveillance, infrastructure, outreach and education across communities of color. We urge you to provide $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008. We thank you for your attention to our concerns, and we look forward to working with you to expand programs for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS in minority communities throughout the United States. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) congratulated The AIDS Institute for launching a New Women's Program to focus attention on the spread of HIV/AIDS among women. "This New Women's Program could not be more timely. The impact of HIV/AIDS on women in America has grown significantly, and the impact on women of color, especially black women, is severe," said Congresswoman Waters. In 1985, women accounted for only 8% of new AIDS cases. Today, they account for 27%. Black women represent an astonishing 67% of new AIDS cases among women. The AIDS case rate among black women is 24 times the case rate for white women. "I am working to expand HIV testing among women and men throughout America. In February, I introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings," said the Congresswoman. H.R. 822 now has 39 cosponsors. "Last month, I introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and then test them again prior to release. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive," said Congresswoman Waters. H.R. 1943 now has 26 cosponsors. According to the Department of Justice, 40% of Federal prison inmates in 2003 were black and 32% were Hispanic. The Department of Justice also reported that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons is three times higher than in the general U.S. population. "Finally, I am continuing my efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative. On April 27, I sent a letter to Appropriations Committee leaders requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008. A total of 85 Members of Congress signed my letter," said Congresswoman Waters. "I believe these three measures will go along way towards reducing HIV infections and AIDS cases among women," said the Congresswoman. "I commend The AIDS Institute for bringing a new focus on women. We will never be able to stop the spread of AIDS until we confront the impact of this disease on women," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.21.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced her support for the goals and ideals of National HIV Testing Day and encouraged all Americans to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS. National HIV Testing Day is tomorrow, June 27, 2007. "Congress should recognize the importance of HIV testing. I urge Congress to support the goals and ideals of National HIV Testing Day. I urge health care providers, government agencies, community-based organizations, businesses, celebrities, and the media to observe National HIV Testing Day by providing voluntary HIV testing services and educating the public about the benefits of HIV testing. Finally, I urge all Americans to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS," said Congresswoman Waters. The National Association of People With AIDS (NAPWA) declared the first annual National HIV Testing Day on June 27, 1995, to encourage people who may be at risk for HIV infection to get tested for HIV. Tomorrow will be the 13th annual National HIV Testing Day. "One quarter of the people living with HIV in the United States do not know they are infected. Individuals who are HIV positive must learn of their status in order to obtain counseling on managing their health, access appropriate medical and social services, begin life-prolonging treatment, and take actions to avoid spreading the virus to others. We will never be able to stop the spread of HIV and AIDS as long as there are large numbers of Americans who don't know they are infected," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters is sponsoring three initiatives in Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. In February, she introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV/AIDS tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. 2. More recently, she reintroduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, a bill to require the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in Federal prisons. This bill requires the Bureau of Prisons to test all inmates for HIV upon entering prison and then test them again prior to release. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. 3. Finally, she is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. On April 27, 2007, she sent a letter to House Appropriators requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008, and 85 Members of Congress signed her letter. ###
07.21.2009	Today, the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives unanimously passed Congresswoman Maxine Waters' bill, H.R. 1943, The Stop AIDS in Prison Act, by a voice vote. No amendments were offered, and there were no statements in opposition. "I am proud that my colleagues on the Judiciary Committee supported the Stop AIDS in Prison Act. I look forward to the passage of this bill by the full House of Representatives," said Congresswoman Waters. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the federal Bureau of Prisons to test all federal prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to release, unless the inmate opts-out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. "AIDS is spreading in our nation's jails and prisons. In 2005, the Department of Justice reported that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons was three times higher than in the general population. We must take action to stop the spread of AIDS in the prison population," said the Congresswoman. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act was introduced by Congresswoman Waters on April 19 with the support of the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Judiciary Committee and the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, and it now has 43 cosponsors. The bill has been endorsed or supported by several prominent AIDS advocacy organizations, including AIDS Action, the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, The AIDS Institute, Bienestar, the HIV Medicine Association, and the National Minority AIDS Council, as well as the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors and the Los Angeles Times. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other persons in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.21.2009	Today, the House of Representatives passed H.R. 1943, The Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was introduced by Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), by a voice vote. Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), the Ranking Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, spoke in favor of the bill, as did Rep. Barbara Lee (D-CA). There was no opposition to the bill. "I am proud that the House passed the Stop AIDS in Prison Act," said Congresswoman Waters. "This bill is a bold step to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS in our nation's prisons and to prevent inmates from infecting other persons in the community following their release from prison." The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the federal Bureau of Prisons to test all federal prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to release, unless the inmate opts-out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. "AIDS is spreading in our nation's jails and prisons. In 2005, the Department of Justice reported that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons was three times higher than in the general population. We need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society. That includes our nation's prison system," said the Congresswoman. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act has been endorsed by several prominent HIV/AIDS advocacy organizations, including AIDS Action, The AIDS Institute, the National Minority AIDS Council, the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, the HIV Medicine Association, AIDS Project Los Angeles, and Bienestar (a Latino community service and advocacy organization), as well as the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors and the Los Angeles Times. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other persons in the community after they have served their sentences," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.21.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) congratulated the Black AIDS Institute for organizing a campaign to promote HIV testing among Black Americans. The Congresswoman made the following statement: I commend the Black AIDS Institute for mobilizing to test one million Black Americans for HIV over the next 18 months. HIV testing allows people who are living with HIV to find out about their infection, begin life-extending treatment, and avoid spreading the virus to others. HIV testing is especially important among Black Americans. We account for half of the new AIDS cases in the United States, although only 12% of the population is Black. Black women represent 66% of new AIDS cases among women, and Black teenagers represent 69% of new AIDS cases among teenagers. AIDS is the 4th leading cause of death for black men and the 3rd leading cause of death for black women between the ages of 25 and 44. However, HIV/AIDS affects everyone. Over one million Americans are living with HIV, and one quarter of them do not know they are infected. That is why I introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act, which requires health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. I also introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and then test them again prior to release. I am proud to announce that this bill is scheduled to come up for a vote on the House floor today, and I expect it to pass. We all need to take this disease seriously. I urge people in our community to mobilize, and I urge all Americans to get tested for HIV. Get informed. Get tested. Get treated. Get involved. ###
07.21.2009	Today, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services and Education requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2008. A bipartisan group of 79 Members of Congress signed the letter. The text of the letter follows: We are writing to request that you provide an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in the Labor, Health and Human Services and Education Appropriations bill for fiscal year 2009. According to the most recent data available from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, racial and ethnic minorities represent 71% of new AIDS cases and 64% of Americans living with AIDS. African Americans account for 50% of new AIDS cases, although only 12% of the population is black. Hispanics account for 19% of new AIDS cases, although only 14% of the population is Hispanic. Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders account for 1% of new AIDS cases, and American Indians/Alaska Natives account for up to 1%. Clearly, racial and ethnic minorities shoulder a disproportionate burden of HIV and AIDS. These statistics demonstrate the tremendous importance of the Minority AIDS Initiative. This critical initiative provides funds to community?based organizations, research institutions, minority?serving colleges and universities, health care organizations, state and local health departments, and correctional institutions to help them address the HIV/AIDS epidemic within the minority populations they serve. The Minority AIDS Initiative is designed to enable organizations and providers in minority communities to improve their capacity to deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate care and services. Thus, it fills gaps in prevention, treatment, surveillance, infrastructure, outreach and education across communities of color. We urge you to provide $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009. We thank you for your attention to our concerns, and we look forward to working with you to expand programs for the prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS in minority communities throughout the United States. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a longtime leader in the U.S. House of Representatives on efforts to respond to the AIDS epidemic, today spoke at 2 events organized by HIV/AIDS advocacy groups to call for a serious national commitment to AIDS prevention and treatment. Congresswoman Waters participated in a rally this afternoon outside the U.S. Capitol with grassroots activists from around the country attending AIDSWatch 2008, a program of the National Association of People With AIDS (NAPWA). Activists urged Congress and other federal policymakers to develop a national strategy to end AIDS. According to NAPWA, AIDS has claimed the lives of almost 600,000 Americans and nearly 1.5 million Americans are currently living with HIV/AIDS. "America can – and must – do more to fight this disease and to help those who are living with HIV/AIDS," said Congresswoman Waters. "I agree with those gathered here that we need a comprehensive national strategy to end this epidemic and to address the needs of everyone in America who is affected." Noting that one quarter of Americans living with HIV are unaware they are infected, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 822) to require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. She also introduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1943), which requires testing all inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to their release. This legislation will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among inmates and reduce the risk that they will infect others after their release from prison. The House passed H.R. 1943 in 2007, and it is now awaiting consideration in the Senate. This evening Congresswoman Waters spoke at the 3rd Annual Congressional Briefing on Latinos and HIV/AIDS. The event was organized by Bienestar, a grassroots, nonprofit organization offering services in Los Angeles and other communities in southern California to reach Latinos and other groups that historically have been underserved. "Representing a district with a large Latino population, I appreciate the efforts of Bienestar and its bilingual, bicultural approach. Unfortunately, HIV/AIDS continues to spread rapidly among minority communities. In fact, people of color now represent the majority of new AIDS cases in America, the majority of Americans living with HIV/AIDS and the majority of those who die from AIDS. I will continue to be a strong advocate for HIV/AIDS prevention, education and treatment and to make sure that the needs of minority communities are taken into consideration," Congresswoman Waters said. Congresswoman Waters spearheaded the development of the Minority AIDS Initiative in 1998 to address the alarming spread of HIV/AIDS among African Americans, Hispanics and other minorities. Under her continuing leadership, funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative has increased from the initial appropriation of $156 million in Fiscal Year 1999 to approximately $400 million per year now. "At a time when HIV/AIDS continues to take a heavy toll on our country, especially in minority communities, the President's budget proposes cutting funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative. I believe instead we must increase funding to fight this deadly disease, and I have called for $610 million in funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative this year," Congresswoman Waters said. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today encouraged all Americans to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS. Appearing at a Capitol Hill event with members of the National Association of People With AIDS (NAPWA), Congresswoman Waters expressed support for the goals and ideals of National HIV Testing Day, which is tomorrow, June 27, 2008. Congresswoman Waters said, "We are here to tell Congress, the media and the American people: ‘Tomorrow is National HIV Testing Day; it's time to get tested for HIV!'" NAPWA declared the first annual National HIV Testing Day on June 27, 1995, to encourage people who might be at risk for HIV infection to get tested for HIV. Tomorrow will be the 14th annual National HIV Testing Day. "One out of four people living with HIV do not know they are infected, and that is a disturbing statistic because it means so many people are not getting lifesaving medicine and also not aware they are at risk of spreading the disease to loved ones," Congresswoman Waters said. "Only by getting tested can people with AIDS obtain treatment for their condition. Only by getting tested can people with AIDS take action to avoid spreading the virus to others. Only by getting tested can people with AIDS take control over their lives. That's why we must tell everyone in America: ‘Take the test, take control!'" Congresswoman Waters has sponsored three initiatives in the 110th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. She introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. This bill has over 40 cosponsors. 2. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent among minority communities. On March 19, 2008, she sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed her letter. 3. She introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on September 25, 2007, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts-out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. ###
07.21.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced the introduction in the House of Representatives of a resolution to honor the first annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. At least 26 Members of Congress will be cosponsoring the resolution. "I am proud to introduce this resolution in honor of the first annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day," said Congresswoman Waters. The Congresswoman made her announcement during an event organized by the National Minority AIDS Education and Training Center (NMAETC) to urge physicians, physician assistants, nurses, dentists and other clinicians to get personally involved in the fight against HIV/AIDS by taking an HIV test, personally demonstrating the importance as well as the ease of HIV testing. "Doctors, nurses, and other clinicians play a critical role in encouraging patients to get tested for HIV. I urge all clinicians to become actively involved in HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment, and referral services in their communities, and I urge all clinicians to take an HIV test today and set a good example for their patients to follow," said the Congresswoman. Congresswoman Waters has sponsored three initiatives in the 110th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing and treatment. 1. She introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. This bill has over 40 cosponsors. 2. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. On March 19, 2008, she sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed her letter. 3. She introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on September 25, 2007, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today reiterated her call for a national strategy to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, in light of new estimates released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) indicating the epidemic is even more severe than previously believed. "The CDC's new estimates of HIV infections in the United States prove that the HIV/AIDS epidemic is even worse than we thought. We need a comprehensive national strategy to stop the spread of this disease in communities throughout the United States," said Congresswoman Waters. The CDC released new estimates of HIV infection in the United States over the weekend. The new estimates indicate that approximately 56,300 new infections occurred in the United States in 2006. This figure is approximately 40% higher than CDC's previous estimates of 40,000 new infections per year. The estimates are based on new technology that allows the CDC to distinguish new HIV infections from long-standing HIV infections and track the spread of the disease more effectively. The CDC noted that the new estimates do not represent an actual increase in the annual number of new HIV infections. Instead, they indicate that the number of new infections per year has remained relatively stable since the late 1990's, but at a level that is much higher than previously thought. The CDC calculated that there have been 55,000 to 58,500 new infections per year since 1997. According to the CDC, the data confirm that the most severe impact is among gay and bisexual men of all races, and black men and women. The rate of new infections among blacks was seven times the rate among whites in 2006. "HIV/AIDS has continued to ravage communities throughout our country. Meanwhile, HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs remain woefully underfunded. Funding for the Minority AIDS Initiative has remained virtually stagnant since fiscal year 2003. It is long past time for the United States to take this disease seriously and to provide sufficient funding to fight this killer," said the Congresswoman. A diverse coalition of HIV/AIDS service and advocacy organizations are calling for a comprehensive national strategy to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Such a strategy would bring together government agencies, political leaders, the private sector, and the HIV/AIDS community to confront the epidemic in a coordinated way. Congresswoman Waters announced her support for a such comprehensive national strategy on April 29, 2008, at a rally on Capitol Hill organized by the National Association of People With AIDS (NAPWA). "In spite of all of the hard work by Members of Congress and HIV/AIDS activists, it is clear that there hasn't been a decrease in the rate of new infections. We need to double our efforts, and we need to work together. We need to develop and implement a comprehensive national strategy to stop the spread of this disease," said the Congresswoman. Congresswoman Waters is the Co-Chair of the AIDS Task Force of the Congressional Black Caucus. She has sponsored four initiatives in the 110th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, testing and treatment. 1. She introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. This bill has over 40 cosponsors. 2. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. On March 19, 2008, she sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed her letter. 3. She introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on September 25, 2007, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. 4. She introduced H.Res. 1359, a resolution to honor the first annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. A total of 29 Members of Congress cosponsored this resolution. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D CA) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, urging them to pass H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, before Congress adjourns. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act was passed by the House of Representatives last year by voice vote under suspension of the rules. The bill was then referred to the Senate where it remains pending in the Judiciary Committee. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act is a bold step to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS in our nation's prisons and to prevent inmates from infecting other persons in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. The Congresswoman's letter was signed by Rep. John Conyers, Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Lamar S. Smith, Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Robert C. Scott, Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, which has jurisdiction over federal prisons; and Rep. Randy Forbes, former Ranking Member of that subcommittee. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act has the strong support of House Judiciary leaders, and it is critical that the Senate pass this bill before Congress adjourns," said the Congresswoman. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention for inmates in Federal prisons. This bill requires the Bureau of Prisons to test all Federal prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to release from prison, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. "AIDS is spreading in our nation's jails and prisons. In 2005, the Department of Justice reported that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons was three times higher than in the general population. We need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society. That includes our nation's prison system," said the Congresswoman. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act was endorsed by several prominent HIV/AIDS advocacy organizations, including AIDS Action, The AIDS Institute, the National Minority AIDS Council, the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, the HIV Medicine Association, AIDS Project Los Angeles, and Bienestar (a Latino community service and advocacy organization), as well as the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors and the Los Angeles Times. Congresswoman Waters is the Co-Chair of the AIDS Task Force of the Congressional Black Caucus. She has sponsored four initiatives in the 110th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, testing and treatment. 1. She introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. This bill has over 40 cosponsors. 2. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. On March 19, 2008, she sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed her letter. 3. She introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on September 25, 2007, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. 4. She introduced H.Res. 1359, a resolution to honor the first annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. A total of 29 Members of Congress cosponsored this resolution. ###
07.21.2009	Today, at a hearing on domestic HIV prevention in the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) urged officials from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to take action to respond to the HIV/AIDS crisis among African Americans and other minority communities. Witnesses at the hearing included Dr. Julie Gerberding, the Director of the CDC. The Congresswoman made the following statement: I would like to thank Chairman Henry Waxman and Ranking Member Tom Davis for organizing this hearing on domestic HIV prevention and allowing me to participate. The title of today's hearing, "The Domestic Epidemic is Worse than We Thought: A Wake-Up Call for HIV Prevention," is most appropriate. The HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States today is indeed worse than we thought. Last month, the CDC released new estimates of domestic HIV infection, which indicate that there have been 55,000 to 58,500 new infections per year since 1997. This figure is approximately 40% higher than CDC's previous estimates of 40,000 new infections per year. The estimates reportedly are based on new technology that allows the CDC to track the spread of the disease more effectively. According to the CDC, the data confirm that the most severe impact is among gay and bisexual men of all races, and black men and women. The rate of new infections among blacks was seven times the rate among whites in 2006. Many people in the black community have long suspected that the epidemic was worse than our nation's leaders thought it was. Even before the CDC's new estimates were released, we knew that African Americans accounted for about half of new AIDS cases, and we knew that HIV/AIDS was having a profound impact on African Americans. In 1998, we sounded the alarm in the halls of Congress. On April 24, 1998, while I was the chair of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), the CBC held a Health Braintrust, which was sponsored by Congressman Louis Stokes. During this Braintrust, CBC members were shocked by the presentation of Dr. Beny J. Primm, the Executive Director of the Addiction Research and Treatment Corporation. Dr. Primm's presentation described a state of HIV/AIDS crisis in minority communities, particularly the black community. On May 11, 1998, the CBC held a meeting that brought together over 20 public health workers, AIDS activists and representatives from all over the country to tell us about the impact of HIV/AIDS on minority communities. That same day, the CBC called for President Bill Clinton to declare a "Public Health Emergency" to combat the crisis in minority communities. In the fall of 1998, Louis Stokes, Donna Christensen and I met with Donna Shalala, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to discuss the crisis. We agreed that what was really needed was not a declaration of a Public Health Emergency but rather money for programs to address the crisis. On October 28, 1998, the CBC held an event to roll out the Minority AIDS Initiative. The event featured the participation of President Clinton, Secretary Shalala, and representatives of HIV/AIDS organizations from around the country. The Minority AIDS Initiative provides grants to community-based organizations and health care providers for HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs serving African American, Hispanic, Asian American and Native American communities. The Initiative was designed to target outreach programs to minority communities and enable the organizations serving these communities to expand their capacity and deliver culturally and linguistically appropriate services. At the 1998 "Roll-out," we announced that the Minority AIDS Initiative would receive an initial appropriation of $156 million in fiscal year 1999. The Minority AIDS Initiative grew significantly over the next five years. Since then, funding has remained stagnant at about $400 million per year since fiscal year 2003. On March 19th of this year, I sent a letter to House Appropriators requesting an appropriation of $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed my letter. Needless to say, this was before the CDC released the new estimates of HIV infection, but these new estimates make the need for the Minority AIDS Initiative so much more obvious. I have also looked for other opportunities to promote HIV testing and prevention. Last year, I introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act was passed by the House of Representatives, and is now awaiting action in the Senate. I call on my colleagues in the Senate to pass this bill and send it to the President's desk before Congress adjourns this year! I am pleased that the CDC has developed methods to more accurately track the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States. These methods provide Congress, AIDS advocacy organizations, and the American people a more accurate picture of the impact of this disease. I look forward to hearing the testimony of the witnesses. I hope this hearing will shed some light not only on the severity of the epidemic, but also on how we can improve the effectiveness of our response and stop the spread of this devastating disease. BACKGROUND Congresswoman Waters is the Co-Chair of the AIDS Task Force of the Congressional Black Caucus. She has sponsored four initiatives in the 110th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, testing and treatment. 1. She introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. This bill has over 40 cosponsors. 2. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. On March 19, 2008, she sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed her letter. 3. She introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was passed by the House of Representatives on September 25, 2007, and now awaits consideration in the Senate. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to test all prison inmates for HIV, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those who test positive. 4. She introduced H.Res. 1359, a resolution to honor the first annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. A total of 29 Members of Congress cosponsored this resolution. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (NY) have introduced resolutions – H. Con. Res. 426 and S. Con. Res. 103 respectively – to commemorate the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative. "Recent CDC figures show clearly the devastating impact HIV continues to have on minority communities, with new infections among black and Hispanic populations at unacceptably high levels. We must ensure that prevention efforts are reaching at-risk populations and we cannot ignore disparities in treatment and care," said Senator Clinton. "This resolution serves as a call to recommit ourselves to doing all that we can to combat stigma, improve awareness, and take the necessary steps to reverse and halt the spread of HIV and AIDS in our communities of color." "The Minority AIDS Initiative has unquestionably saved lives, especially within America's minority communities, which are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. While we commemorate the 10th anniversary of this important initiative, we realize that the AIDS epidemic continues to take a heavy toll. We must continue to target funds for treatment and prevention to minority communities," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters led efforts within the U.S. House of Representatives to establish the Minority AIDS Initiative during her tenure as Chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC), realizing that the AIDS epidemic was increasingly affecting the nation's ethnic and racial minority communities. She currently chairs the CBC AIDS Task Force and has continued her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative and increase funding for it. Senator Clinton has been a vocal advocate of the need for prevention, testing and early treatment in order to combat the AIDS epidemic in the United States. She has led the push to increase appropriations for domestic AIDS funding in the Senate, encompassing prevention and treatment efforts at multiple agencies. She introduced the Early Treatment for HIV Act, which will allow low-income individuals with HIV to access Medicaid before they become ill. The Minority AIDS Initiative received an initial appropriation of $156 million in fiscal year 1999 and currently is funded at approximately $400 million per year. Racial and ethnic minorities are disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS. African-Americans account for about half of new AIDS cases, although approximately 13 percent of the population as a whole is black. Hispanic-Americans account for 19 percent of new AIDS cases, although only 15 percent of the population as a whole is Hispanic. Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders account for 1 percent of new AIDS cases, and Native Americans and Alaskan Natives account for up to 1 percent of new AIDS cases. Approximately 70 percent of new AIDS cases are racial and ethnic minorities. The establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative was announced on October 28, 1998 at an event sponsored by the Congressional Black Caucus. The event featured the participation of President Bill Clinton, Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna Shalala, members of the Congressional Black Caucus, and representatives of HIV/AIDS service and advocacy organizations. Congress codified the Minority AIDS Initiative within the most recent reauthorization of the Ryan White CARE Act. Today, the Minority AIDS Initiative continues to fills gaps in prevention, treatment, surveillance, infrastructure, outreach and education across communities of color. ### Contact: Michael Levin 202-225-2201
07.21.2009	Today, the Judiciary Committee of the United States Senate passed H.R. 1943, The Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which was introduced by Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) last year. This bill passed the House of Representatives by voice vote and was then referred to the Senate. On September 15, 2008, Congresswoman Waters and a bipartisan group of House members urged the Senate Judiciary Committee to consider the bill before Congress adjourns. "I am proud that the Senate Judiciary Committee passed the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, and I urge the full Senate to pass this bill and send it to the President's desk before we adjourn," said Congresswoman Waters. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the federal Bureau of Prisons to test all federal prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to release, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. "This bill is a bold step to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS in our nation's prisons and to prevent inmates from infecting other persons in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act has been endorsed by AIDS Action, The AIDS Institute, the National Minority AIDS Council, the AIDS Healthcare Foundation, the HIV Medicine Association, AIDS Project Los Angeles, and Bienestar (a Latino community service and advocacy organization), as well as the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors and the Los Angeles Times. "AIDS is spreading in our nation's jails and prisons. In 2005, the Department of Justice reported that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons was three times higher than in the general population. We need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society. That includes our nation's prison system," said the Congresswoman. Congresswoman Waters is the Co-Chair of the AIDS Task Force of the Congressional Black Caucus. She has sponsored five initiatives in the 110th Congress to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, prevention, testing and treatment. 1. She introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. This bill has over 40 cosponsors. 2. She is continuing her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established back in 1998 to expand HIV testing, treatment and prevention among racial and ethnic minorities. HIV/AIDS is more prevalent in minority communities. On March 19, 2008, she sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Minority AIDS Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed her letter. 3. She introduced H.R. 1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which passed the House of Representatives on September 25, 2007, and passed the Senate Judiciary Committee on September 25, 2008. It now awaits consideration in the full Senate. 4. She introduced H.Con.Res. 426, a resolution to commemorate the 10th Anniversary of the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative. More than 50 Members of Congress cosponsored this resolution. 5. She introduced H.Res. 1359, a resolution to honor the first annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. A total of 29 Members of Congress cosponsored this resolution. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) expressed strong support for a comprehensive strategy to respond to the ongoing HIV/AIDS epidemic nationally and globally, while also stressing the importance of individual responsibility during visits to two Los Angeles area health clinics yesterday. Congresswoman Waters spoke during World AIDS Day at the Watts Health Center, a prominent community health center serving low-income and underserved populations, and at an event in Los Angeles hosted by Bienestar called "Unidos en Esperanza" (United in Hope). Bienestar has a number of facilities and programs in Southern California, including its South Los Angeles Center, which serves a predominantly Latino community and provides support services and education to people living with HIV/AIDS. "On World AIDS Day, we must remember that despite some progress in research, prevention and treatment, millions of people worldwide are dying from AIDS. We can and must do more, including adopting and implementing a national strategy to address the epidemic," said Congresswoman Waters. She also called on those attending the events to take personal responsibility for HIV/AIDS prevention. "We must continue to urge people to abstain, be faithful or use condoms to protect themselves and their partners. We must continue to urge all Americans to get tested for HIV and make certain that testing services are widely available," said Congresswoman Waters. Citing new estimates of HIV infection recently released by the Centers for Disease Control indicating that the HIV/AIDS epidemic is even worse than believed, Congresswoman Waters said, "Some people don't understand that HIV and AIDS continue to be serious public health issues and require a sense of urgency." According to CDC, approximately 56,300 new infections occurred in the United States in 2006. This figure is about 40% higher than CDC's previous estimates of 40,000 new infections per year. Congresswoman Waters, the Co-Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus AIDS Task Force, said, "AIDS does not discriminate. Anyone can be infected – and affected – regardless of race, ethnicity, nationality, income, or sexual preference. However, racial and ethnic minorities in America are disproportionately impacted." Nationally, African Americans account for about half of new AIDS cases, 45% of new HIV infections and 56% of the deaths due to AIDS, although only 13% of the population is black. In Los Angeles, Latinos represent almost half of new AIDS diagnoses. Minorities now represent approximately 70% of new AIDS cases in the U.S., 64% of Americans living with HIV/AIDS, and 72% of deaths among persons with AIDS. "Although AIDS continues to take its toll on families, communities and nations, we must not lose hope. We can reduce and prevent infections by making testing more widely available and extend lives by making antiretroviral treatment more widely available," said Congresswoman Waters, who also vowed to continue her work as a leading Congressional advocate for more resources for HIV prevention, treatment and research. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) re-introduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429) today. She announced the introduction of this bill at the Congressional Summit on the Effects of HIV and Incarceration on Communities of Color, an event on Capitol Hill organized by the National Minority AIDS Council (NMAC). "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates, encourage them to take personal responsibility for their health, and reduce the risk that they will transmit HIV/AIDS to other people in the community following their release from prison," said Congresswoman Waters. Original cosponsors of the Stop AIDS in Prison Act include Rep. John Conyers (D-MI), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee; and Rep. Robert C. Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, which has jurisdiction over federal prisons. "I am honored to have the support of Judiciary Committee leaders for the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, and I look forward to working with the House leadership to pass it," said the Congresswoman. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act was passed by the House of Representatives during the 110th Congress by voice vote. However, the Senate did not complete action on the bill prior to adjournment. "AIDS is spreading in our nation's jails and prisons. In 2005, the Department of Justice reported that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons was three times higher than in the general population. We need to take the threat of HIV/AIDS seriously and confront it in every institution of our society. That includes our nation's prison system," said Congresswoman Waters. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the Bureau of Prisons to test all Federal prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to release from prison, unless the inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. Congresswoman Waters has been a leader of congressional efforts to confront the HIV/AIDS epidemic. During the last Congress, she sponsored five initiatives to promote HIV/AIDS prevention, testing and treatment. 1. She introduced H.R.1943, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which passed the House. 2. She introduced H.R. 822, the Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act. This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings and therefore encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV/AIDS. A total of 44 Members of Congress cosponsored this bill. 3. She continued her efforts to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established in 1998 to expand HIV/AIDS prevention, testing, and treatment among minorities, which have been disproportionately affected by HIV/AIDS. She sent a letter to House appropriators requesting $610 million for the Initiative in fiscal year 2009, and 79 Members of Congress signed her letter. 4. She introduced H.Con.Res. 426, a resolution to commemorate the 10th Anniversary of the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative. This resolution passed both the House and the Senate. 5. She introduced H.Res. 1359, a resolution to honor the first annual National Clinicians HIV/AIDS Testing and Awareness Day. A total of 29 Members of Congress cosponsored this resolution. ###
07.21.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Stop AIDS in Prison Act (H.R. 1429), legislation introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a longtime leader of Congressional efforts to confront the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The Stop AIDS in Prison Act requires the Bureau of Prisons to test all Federal prison inmates for HIV upon entering prison and again prior to release from prison, unless an inmate opts out of taking the test. The bill also requires HIV/AIDS prevention education for all inmates and comprehensive treatment for those inmates who test positive. "The Stop AIDS in Prison Act will help stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among prison inmates and will protect people in the general community from transmission," said Congresswoman Waters. Original cosponsors of the Stop AIDS in Prison Act include Rep. John Conyers (D-MI), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee; Rep. Lamar Smith (R-TX), Ranking Member of the House Judiciary Committee; and Rep. Robert C. Scott (D-VA), Chairman of the Judiciary Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security, which has jurisdiction over federal prisons. The legislation also has the support of many health advocates. "AIDS Action, and our diverse nationwide membership of community-based HIV/AIDS service providers and public health departments applaud Congresswoman Waters' efforts to combat the HIV epidemic within federal prisons and address the public health threat it poses to our nation," said Ronald Johnson, Deputy Executive Director of AIDS Action, a leading national organization dedicated to shaping public policy related to HIV/AIDS. The Department of Justice reported in 2005 that the rate of confirmed AIDS cases in prisons was three times higher than in the general population. This legislation is designed to prevent the transmission of HIV/AIDS within prison as well as lessen the spread of the disease in the general community following the release of infected prisoners. Congresswoman Waters first introduced the Stop AIDS in Prison Act during the 109th Congress. She reintroduced it in the 110th Congress, and it was passed by the House of Representatives and the Senate Judiciary Committee. However, the full Senate did not complete action on the bill prior to adjournment. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today re-introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 822 in the 110th Congress). This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. "Standard health insurance plans now cover HIV tests only when there are clinical indications of infection or when there are known risk factors present, but they should cover HIV tests as routine procedures," said Congresswoman Waters. "Routine HIV screening is a key to stopping the spread of HIV/AIDS. It will encourage more people to get tested and raise awareness about the continuing risk of the disease. It will also allow thousands of Americans who are living with HIV/AIDS but do not know it to find out about their infection, begin life-extending treatment, and avoid spreading the virus to others." Last year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimated that there were 56,300 new HIV infections in the United States in 2006. This figure is approximately 40% higher than the CDC's previous estimate of 40,000 new infections per year. Twenty-one percent of the people who are living with HIV/AIDS in the United States do not know they are infected. "Recent news about the swine flu virus reminds us of the importance of monitoring epidemics and encouraging people to take precautions to protect their health. It is important that we remain vigilant in our efforts to stop the spread of HIV/AIDS even as we respond to this most recent threat to public health," the Congresswoman added. The Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act is one of several legislative initiatives related to HIV/AIDS that Congresswoman Waters is pursuing in the 111th Congress. She introduced H.R. 1429, the Stop AIDS in Prison Act, which passed the House on March 17th and is now awaiting consideration in the Senate. This bill requires the Federal Bureau of Prisons to develop a comprehensive policy to provide HIV testing, treatment and prevention programs for inmates in Federal prisons. Congresswoman Waters is also an advocate for the expansion of the Minority AIDS Initiative, which she established in 1998, working with the Clinton Administration and the Congressional Black Caucus. The Minority AIDS Initiative provides grants for HIV/AIDS awareness, treatment and prevention programs that serve minority communities. The initiative has received approximately $400 million per year in appropriations since fiscal year 2003. "I am calling for at least $610 million in funding this year to expand the Minority AIDS Initiative and stop the spread of HIV/AIDS among communities of color, which have been disproportionately impacted by this disease," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today encouraged all Americans to get tested for HIV and educate themselves about the prevention and treatment of HIV and AIDS. She joined other Members of Congress and public health advocates at an event held in advance of National HIV Testing Day, which is June 27th, and leading by example she was tested today. Congresswoman Waters is recognized as a leader in Congress for her efforts to promote HIV/AIDS awareness, testing, treatment and prevention. "Our message is: ‘Take the test, take control'," Congresswoman Waters said. "Getting tested and learning your HIV status is extremely important. Those who test positive can begin to get lifesaving medicine and prevent spreading the virus to loved ones. Those who test negative can continue to take steps to protect themselves from infection. In any case, knowledge is power and knowing your HIV status allows you to make informed decisions." According to the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) more than one million Americans are living with HIV/AIDS — and more than one out of five people living with HIV do not know they are infected. "We need to increase the availability of HIV tests and encourage individuals to get tested so we can reduce the spread of HIV and AIDS. More people will seek testing if they realize that it's easy and painless – it can be done by a simple swab inside your cheek, without a needle or blood – and you can get your results back in half an hour," Congresswoman Waters said. To encourage and enable more Americans to be tested for HIV, Congresswoman Waters introduced the Routine HIV Screening Coverage Act (H.R. 2137). This bill would require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. HIV/AIDS affects men and women of all races and ethnicities. Blacks, Latinos and other minorities however are disproportionately impacted by the epidemic. Combined, minorities represent 67% of new HIV infections, 71% of new AIDS cases and 67% of people living with HIV/AIDS. In 1998, when she was the chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Congresswoman Waters spearheaded the establishment of the Minority AIDS Initiative, and she has continued her efforts to expand it. She sent a letter signed by a total of 53 Members of Congress to House leaders who make key funding decisions requesting that the Minority AIDS Initiative receive $610 million in fiscal year 2010. This would be a considerable increase from the funding level of about $400 million per year during most of the Bush Administration. Congresswoman Waters said, "The community-based organizations and health care providers who receive grants through the Minority AIDS Initiative have been effective in delivering HIV/AIDS treatment and prevention programs to minority communities in culturally and linguistically appropriate ways. That is why we are seeing some encouraging signs. For example, the Kaiser Family Foundation reports that more Black Americans (68%) and Latinos (57%) than Whites (42%) have taken an HIV test. However, we still have a lot of work to do as half of all Blacks living with HIV are unaware that they are infected." Congresswoman Waters reiterated her encouragement that all Americans get tested. "A lot of clinics, health care centers and community organizations provide testing, and in some cases the test is even free," she noted. To find the nearest testing site, call 1-800-CDC-INFO (1-800-232-4636) or visit https://hivtest.org ###
07.21.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced a comprehensive package of legislation to expand disease prevention and treatment programs in her district and other underserved communities throughout America. The package consists of three separate bills, each of which will reduce disparities and expand services for patients who suffer from common, life-threatening diseases. This comprehensive health package includes the following bills: • The Cancer TEST Act This bill will authorize grants for prevention education, screenings, patient counseling services, and treatment for cancer. Grants will be made available to community health centers and non-profit organizations that serve minority and underserved populations. The bill will emphasize early detection and provide comprehensive treatment for cancer in its earliest stages, when treatment is most likely to save lives. • The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act Diabetes continues to have a severe impact on minorities. More than nine percent of Hispanic Americans, 12 percent of American Indians, and 13 percent of African Americans over the age of 20 have diabetes, and many Asian Americans are also at high risk. The Minority Diabetes Initiative Act will authorize grants for diabetes prevention and treatment programs in minority communities. The initiative is modeled on the highly successful Minority AIDS Initiative, which was developed under Congresswoman Waters' leadership in 1998. • The Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act Alzheimer's disease currently affects 4.5 million Americans over the age of 65 and places tremendous burdens on the families who care for them. Caregivers face a variety of challenges, from assisting patients with bathing and dressing to managing their finances and making legal decisions. The Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act will authorize grants to improve treatment for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. These grants will allow more people with Alzheimer's disease to remain in their homes with their families. "This comprehensive health package will save lives and improve health services for individuals with cancer, diabetes, and Alzheimer's disease in underserved communities like California's 35th congressional district. I urge my colleagues to support all three of these bills and expand the availability of critical health services for all Americans who are at risk from these life-threatening conditions," said the Congresswoman. ###
07.21.2009	Last night, U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced H.R. 1032, the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act, a bill to improve treatment services for Alzheimer's patients and to expand training and support services for their families and caregivers. The bill is supported by the Alzheimer's Association, which is dedicated to finding prevention methods, treatments, and an eventual cure for Alzheimer's disease. "Alzheimer's disease places tremendous burdens on families," said Congresswoman Waters. "My legislation will expand access to training and support services for families and caregivers. As a result , it will improve the ability of caregivers to provide effective, compassionate care and allow more people with Alzheimer's disease to remain in their homes with people who love them." More than 70% of Alzheimer's patients live at home under the care of family and friends. Caregivers face a variety of challenges, from assisting patients with bathing and dressing to managing their finances and making legal decisions. Nursing home care for Alzheimer's patients costs an average of $42,000 per year and places additional challenges on family members who want to remain involved in the lives of their loved one. "The Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act offered by Representative Maxine Waters is a tremendous step in creating awareness about Alzheimer's disease, which is currently affecting 4.5 million Americans over the age of 65. With that number expected to soar to as many as 16 million by 2050, this legislation addresses the need for education, training, support, and tangible services to assist those with the disease and their families," says Harry Johns, President and CEO of the Alzheimer's Association. "The Alzheimer's Association applauds Representative Maxine Waters for continuing to make Alzheimer's a priority and championing the expansion of community based services, especially in underserved communities, to assist those in need." "I am proud to have the support of the Alzheimer's Association for my legislation, and I hope my colleagues will work with me to pass it and expand the availability of treatment and support services for Alzheimer's patients and their families," said the Congresswoman. ###
07.21.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) congratulated Academy-Award winning director Michael Moore on the release of Sicko, his documentary film on the American health care system. "Michael Moore has applied his considerable genius to illuminate the crisis in the American health care system. He is to be congratulated for this. Sicko takes a critical look at the inadequacies of health care in the United States today. The film puts a human face on the problem of the uninsured and the underinsured with stories of American patients. In America today, only the rich can be sure they will get good health care when they need it. This is a terrible tragedy. It is also a crime," said the Congresswoman. Congresswoman Waters congratulated Mr. Moore at a press conference and briefing on the American health care system organized by Judiciary Committee Chairman John Conyers and Ways and Means Health Subcommittee Chairman Pete Stark. The briefing featured clips from Mr. Moore's documentary. "Access to health care is one of my highest priorities as a Member of Congress. The 110th Congress needs to examine the crisis in the American health care system in a serious way and find a way to achieve universal access. This will cost money. To find the money, we must end the war in Iraq and bring the troops home," said the Congresswoman. Congresswoman Waters has been an active and vocal opponent of the war in Iraq. In June 2005, Rep. Waters founded, and now serves as Chair of the "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus. The "Out of Iraq" Caucus, which has more than 75 members, was founded to pressure the Administration into concluding the war in Iraq as soon as possible. "Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph Stiglitz puts the final figure for the war in Iraq at $1 to $2 trillion. This includes $500 billion for the war and occupation and up to $300 billion in future health care costs for wounded troops. These staggering amounts of money for an unnecessary and immoral war are more than enough to pay for universal health care for every American citizen," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.21.2009	Today, U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) congratulated the Alzheimer's Foundation of America (AFA) for unveiling the Quilt to Remember. The AFA unveiled the Quilt this morning at an Opening Ceremony in Los Angeles. The Congresswoman made the following statement: I am proud to support the unveiling of the Alzheimer's Foundation of America's Quilt to Remember! The Quilt to Remember honors all who are affected by Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. The Quilt is large and growing, yet its pieces are small and personal. The Quilt is a monument to those who have been lost to Alzheimer's disease, a tribute to those living with the disease, a tool of empowerment for caregivers, and a means of education for all. Alzheimer's disease currently affects more than 4.5 million Americans over the age of 65, and this number could triple by the year 2050. Ten percent of Americans over 65 and almost half of Americans over 85 suffer from Alzheimer's. More than 70% of Alzheimer's patients live at home under the care of family and friends. Caregivers and other family members face a myriad of challenges, from assisting patients with bathing and dressing to managing their finances and making legal decisions. These challenges can often seem overwhelming, but most families face them with courage, compassion, commitment, and love. That is why I introduced H.R. 1032, the Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act. This legislation provides grants to public and non-profit organizations to improve treatment services for Alzheimer's patients and expand training and support services for caregivers and families. Grant recipients would be required to employ a comprehensive approach to Alzheimer's care that integrates patient treatment with training and support services for caregivers and families. Training and support services are essential to help caregivers provide effective and compassionate care to their loved ones with Alzheimer's disease. The Alzheimer's Treatment and Caregiver Support Act is cosponsored by the Democratic and Republican Co-Chairmen of the Congressional Alzheimer's Task Force, as well as forty other Members of Congress. I honor all of you who helped make and unveil the Quilt to Remember. May your efforts be a comfort and an inspiration to all are affected by this tragic disease. ###
07.21.2009	Today, on Capitol Hill, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, and Science requesting an appropriation of $2 million to help local communities and law enforcement officials identify wandering Alzheimer's patients and reunite them with their families. The text of the letter follows: We urge you to provide $2 million in the fiscal year 2009 Commerce-Justice-Science (CJS) appropriations bill for the "Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program," a competitive grant program authorized under section 240001 of P.L. 103-322. This Department of Justice program helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander or are missing and reunite them with their families. An estimated 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease. One in eight Americans over 65 and nearly half of Americans over 85 suffer from this disorder. Sixty percent of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander from their homes. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on those who are defenseless. Up to 50 percent of wandering Alzheimer's patients will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. Since its inception more than 10 years ago, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has united over 12,000 wanderers with their families. It is a highly successful program whereby 88% of registrants who wander are found within the first four hours of being reported missing. A total of 1,288 wandering incidents were reported to the program in 2007. The program has a 98% success rate in recovering enrollees who are reported missing. There are also technology-based options to address wandering that should be considered for funding under the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. For example, personalized wristbands that emit a tracking signal can be used to locate wanderers. We have been informed that these wristbands, when combined with specially trained search and rescue teams, can reduce search times from hours and days to minutes. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program is a critical resource for first responders. It saves law enforcement officials valuable time, allowing them to focus on other national and local security concerns. Therefore, we urge you to ensure that the fiscal year 2009 CJS appropriations bill includes $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program with the intent of expanding the program and promoting the use of technology-based options. This valuable program protects the safety of thousands of Americans affected by Alzheimer's disease and provides priceless peace-of-mind to their families. Families across the country are counting on your support for this important program. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Jim Ramstad Edward Markey Christopher Smith Henry Waxman John Boozman Dale E. Kildee William Jefferson Eleanor Holmes Norton Michael R. McNulty Jim Saxton Edolphus Towns Robert Wexler Lynn Woolsey Phil English Corrine Brown Frank LoBiondo Bob Filner Maurice Hinchey Tammy Baldwin Steve Cohen Janice Schakowsky Linda T. Sánchez John M. Spratt, Jr. Mary Fallin Raúl Grijalva Neil Abercrombie Donna M. Christensen Michael E. Capuano Chris Van Hollen Shelley Berkley Diane E. Watson ###
07.21.2009	The House Judiciary Committee today approved a measure by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to assist people with Alzheimer's disease who wander away and ensure their safe return to their families. Congresswoman Waters, working with Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) and Adam Schiff (D-CA), offered an amendment to the Elder Justice Act (H.R. 1783) to reauthorize and expand the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. This Department of Justice program helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander or are missing and reunite them with their families. "My amendment would enable this highly effective program to continue providing vital assistance to a vulnerable population and support the use of new technologies to help locate missing Alzheimer's patients," Congresswoman Waters said. An estimated 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, including one in eight Americans over 65 and nearly half of Americans over 85. Sixty percent of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander from their homes. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on those who are defenseless. Up to 50 percent of wandering Alzheimer's patients will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. Since its inception more than 10 years ago, the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has united over 12,000 wanderers with their families. This national registry has been run by the Alzheimer's Association and is known as Safe Return, an appropriate name considering that the program has a 98% success rate in recovering enrollees who are reported missing and 88% of registrants who wander are found within the first four hours of being reported missing. A total of 1,288 wandering incidents were reported to Safe Return in 2007. Congresswoman Waters wants the Safe Return program to continue to receive adequate funding to meet the needs of a growing Alzheimer's population while allowing funding for other programs such as those that employ advanced technologies to address wandering. For example, personalized wristbands that emit a tracking signal can be used to locate wanderers. These wristbands, when combined with specially trained search and rescue teams, can reduce search times from hours and days to minutes. The amendment approved today would authorize up to $5 million per year in appropriations for fiscal years 2009 through 2015 and would allow the Department of Justice to award multiple competitive grants to States, units of local government, and nonprofit organizations. Preference would be given to nonprofit organizations that have a direct link to patients with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias and their families. Congress originally authorized $900,000 in appropriations for the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program for three years (1996-1998) but never reauthorized or updated the program. Since then, the program has continued to receive funding on a year-to-year basis, but funding has remained virtually flat since its inception. In June of 2006, Congresswoman Waters worked with colleagues to increase the funding to $1 million in fiscal year 2007. The program received the same amount in fiscal year 2008. ###
07.21.2009	The House Judiciary Committee today approved a measure by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to assist people with Alzheimer's disease who wander away and to ensure their safe return to their families. Congresswoman Waters, working with Reps. Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX) and Adam Schiff (D-CA), offered an amendment to the Elder Justice Act (H.R. 1783) to reauthorize and expand the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. This Department of Justice program helps local communities and law enforcement officials quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander or are missing and reunite them with their families. "My amendment would enable this highly effective program to continue providing vital assistance to a vulnerable population and support the use of new technologies to help locate missing Alzheimer's patients," Congresswoman Waters said. An estimated 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, including one in eight Americans over 65 and nearly half of Americans over 85. Sixty percent of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander from their homes. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on those who are defenseless. Up to 50 percent of wandering Alzheimer's patients will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. Since its inception more than 10 years ago, the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has united over 12,000 wanderers with their families. This national registry has been run by the Alzheimer's Association and is known as Safe Return, an appropriate name considering that the program has a 98% success rate in recovering enrollees who are reported missing and 88% of registrants who wander are found within the first four hours of being reported missing. A total of 1,288 wandering incidents were reported to Safe Return in 2007. Congresswoman Waters wants the Safe Return program to continue to receive adequate funding to meet the needs of a growing Alzheimer's population while allowing funding for other programs such as those that employ advanced technologies to address wandering. For example, personalized wristbands that emit a tracking signal can be used to locate wanderers. These wristbands, when combined with specially trained search and rescue teams, can reduce search times from hours and days to minutes. The amendment approved by the Judiciary Committee would authorize up to $5 million per year in appropriations for fiscal years 2009 through 2015 and would allow the Department of Justice to award multiple competitive grants to States, units of local government, and nonprofit organizations. Preference would be given to nonprofit organizations that have a direct link to patients with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias and their families. Congress originally authorized $900,000 in appropriations for the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program for three years (1996-1998) but never reauthorized or updated the program. Since then, the program has continued to receive funding on a year-to-year basis, but funding has remained virtually flat since its inception. In June of 2006, Congresswoman Waters worked with colleagues to increase the funding to $1 million in fiscal year 2007. The program received the same amount in fiscal year 2008. Earlier this year, she sent a letter to leaders of the Appropriations Committee requesting $2 million in funding for the Missing Patients Program in fiscal year 2009 and recommending that the program be expanded to allow funding for technology-based options in addition to the national registry. Her letter was supported by the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America, and it was signed by a bipartisan group of 32 Members of Congress. ###
07.21.2009	The House Judiciary Committee today approved H.R. 6503, a bill introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to assist people with Alzheimer's disease who wander away and to ensure their safe return to their families. H.R. 6503 reauthorizes, updates and expands the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. This Department of Justice program helps local communities quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander or are missing and reunite them with their families. H.R. 6503 has over 20 bipartisan cosponsors and is supported by the Alzheimer's Foundation of America and Project Lifesaver. "I am pleased that my bill has been approved by the Judiciary Committee with bipartisan support. Reauthorizing and improving this already highly effective program is important so that the vulnerable population of Alzheimer's patients have vital assistance if they wander away from home," Congresswoman Waters said. An estimated 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, including one in eight Americans over 65 and nearly half of Americans over 85. Sixty percent of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander from their homes. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on those who are defenseless. Up to 50 percent of wandering Alzheimer's patients will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. The Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, established more than 10 years ago, has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has reunited over 12,000 wanderers with their families. This national registry has been run by the Alzheimer's Association and is known as Safe Return, an appropriate name considering that the program has a 98% success rate in recovering enrollees who are reported missing and 88% of registrants who wander are found within the first four hours of being reported missing. A total of 1,288 wandering incidents were reported to Safe Return in 2007. Congresswoman Waters wants the Safe Return program to continue to receive adequate funding to meet the needs of a growing Alzheimer's population while allowing funding for other programs such as those that employ advanced technologies to address wandering. For example, personalized wristbands that emit a tracking signal can be used to locate wanderers. These wristbands, when combined with specially trained search and rescue teams, can reduce search times from hours and days to minutes. The bill approved by the Judiciary Committee would authorize up to $5 million per year in appropriations for Fiscal Years 2009 through 2015 and would allow the Department of Justice to award multiple competitive grants to nonprofit organizations. Preference would be given to national nonprofit organizations that have a direct link to patients with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias and their families. Congress originally authorized $900,000 in appropriations for the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program for three years (1996-1998) but never reauthorized or updated the program. Since then, the program has continued to receive funding on a year-to-year basis, but funding has remained virtually flat since its inception. In June of 2006, Congresswoman Waters worked with colleagues to increase the funding to $1 million in fiscal year 2007. The program received the same amount in fiscal year 2008. Earlier this year, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to leaders of the Appropriations Committee requesting $2 million in funding for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program in fiscal year 2009 and recommending that the program be expanded to allow funding for technology-based options in addition to the national registry. Her letter was supported by the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America, and it was signed by a bipartisan group of 32 Members of Congress. ###
07.21.2009	Last night, the House of Representatives passed a bill introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to assist people with Alzheimer's disease. H.R. 6503 reauthorizes, updates and expands the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, a Department of Justice program which helps local communities and law enforcement quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander or are missing and reunite them with their families. "Reauthorizing and improving the effective Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program will provide vital assistance to vulnerable Alzheimer's patients and their families. The program is also a valuable resource for first responders, and by saving valuable time it enables law enforcement officers to focus on other security concerns in our communities," Congresswoman Waters said. Since it was established more than 10 years ago, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has reunited over 12,000 wanderers with their families. The program has a 98% success rate in recovering enrollees who are reported missing, and 88% of registrants who wander are found within the first four hours of being reported missing. A total of 1,288 wandering incidents were reported to the program in 2007. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on those who are defenseless. Up to 50 percent of wandering Alzheimer's patients will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. An estimated 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, including one in eight Americans over 65 and nearly half of Americans over 85. Sixty percent of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander from their homes. Congress originally authorized $900,000 in appropriations for the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program for three years (1996-1998) but never reauthorized or updated the program. Since then, the program has continued to receive funding on a year-to-year basis, but funding has remained virtually flat since its inception. H.R. 6503 authorizes up to $5 million per year in appropriations for fiscal years 2009 through 2015, a modest increase over the current appropriation of $1 million in fiscal year 2008. The bill also expands the program so as to allow the Department of Justice to award multiple competitive grants to nonprofit organizations. Preference would be given to national nonprofit organizations with a direct link to patients, and families of patients, with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. In addition, the bill specifies that the program will be operated under the Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Assistance. Currently, the program is operated under the Office of Juvenile Justice, which is obviously not the most appropriate agency for a program serving the elderly. HR 6503 has 25 bipartisan cosponsors, including the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Alzheimer's Task Force, Congressmen Edward Markey and Christopher Smith. The bill is also supported by the Alzheimer's Foundation of America and Project Lifesaver. Furthermore, on May 14th, a diverse group of over 85 national, state and local organizations sent a letter to members of the House Judiciary Committee supporting this approach to the reauthorization of the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Program. ###
07.21.2009	The House of Representatives today passed a bill introduced by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) to assist people with Alzheimer's disease. H.R. 908 reauthorizes, updates and expands the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, a Department of Justice program which helps local communities and law enforcement quickly identify persons with Alzheimer's disease who wander away or are missing and reunite them with their families. "I am pleased that the House voted to provide vital assistance to vulnerable Alzheimer's patients and their families by reauthorizing and improving the effective Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program. The program is also an important resource for first responders, and it enables law enforcement officers to save valuable time so they can focus on other security concerns in our communities," Congresswoman Waters said. Since it was established more than 10 years ago, the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, has funded a national registry of more than 172,000 individuals at risk of wandering and has reunited over 12,000 wanderers with their families. The program has a 98% success rate in recovering enrollees who are reported missing, and 88% of registrants who wander are found within the first four hours of being reported missing. A total of 1,288 wandering incidents were reported to the program in 2007. Wanderers are vulnerable to dehydration, weather conditions, traffic hazards, and individuals who prey on those who are defenseless. Up to 50 percent of wandering Alzheimer's patients will become seriously injured or die if they are not found within 24 hours of their departure from home. An estimated 5 million Americans have Alzheimer's disease, including one in eight Americans over 65 and nearly half of Americans over 85. Sixty percent of Alzheimer's patients are likely to wander from their homes. Congress originally authorized $900,000 in appropriations for the Missing Alzheimer's Patient Alert Program for three years (1996-1998) but never reauthorized or updated the program. Since then, the program has continued to receive funding on a year-to-year basis, but funding has remained virtually flat since its inception. H.R. 908 authorizes up to $5 million per year in appropriations for Fiscal Years 2010 through 2016, an increase over the $1 million appropriation in Fiscal Year 2008. The bill also expands the program to allow the Department of Justice to award multiple competitive grants to nonprofit organizations. Preference would be given to national nonprofit organizations with a direct link to patients, and families of patients, with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias. In addition, the bill specifies that the program will be operated under the Department of Justice's Bureau of Justice Assistance. Currently, the program is operated under the Office of Juvenile Justice, which is obviously not the most appropriate agency for a program serving the elderly. H.R. 908 has 21 bipartisan cosponsors, including the Co-Chairs of the Congressional Alzheimer's Task Force, Congressman Edward Markey and Congressman Christopher Smith. The bill has been endorsed by more than 85 national, state and local organizations, including the Alzheimer's Association and the Alzheimer's Foundation of America. ###
07.21.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) joined Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa and local members of the grassroots, global anti-poverty organization ONE today at City Hall to declare Los Angeles a "ONE City" against global poverty and disease. Congresswoman Waters said, "As individuals, communities, and nations, we can and must join in efforts to fight extreme poverty and prevent deadly diseases. Los Angeles is a global city, so it is appropriate that we are a "ONE City" dedicated to important global causes. Likewise, I will continue to advocate for applying American generosity, ingenuity, and prosperity to aid the world's poor and vulnerable." She noted that poverty and disease are problems here in the United States as well, where more than 37 million people – including more than 13 million children – live in poverty. The poverty rate in Los Angeles County is 14.5 percent. More than 45 million Americans lack health insurance and are therefore more likely to die from preventable or treatable diseases including diabetes, heart disease and HIV/AIDS. As the nation's economy has slowed and unemployment continues rising, more people are unemployed and at risk for losing access to health care. "We must do everything we can to end poverty and improve public health here at home and around the world," Congresswoman Waters said. In addition to supporting humanitarian assistance to Haiti and impoverished nations in Africa and elsewhere, Congresswoman Waters has introduced legislation to cancel the debts that the world's poorest nations owe to international financial institutions so these countries can instead use their funds to reduce poverty and invest in healthcare and education for their citizens. She introduced the Jubilee Act (H.R. 2634) which the House of Representatives passed last year, and she introduced legislation to stop vulture funds – private investment funds that buy up the debts of poor countries at reduced prices then sue to obtain usurious payments. "As a result of the efforts of committed advocates and organizations, many of which are now a part of the ONE campaign, 23 heavily indebted poor countries already have received complete cancellation of their debts. However, many other needy and deserving poor countries have not, and I will not give up until they do," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters, who co-chairs the Congressional Black Caucus AIDS Task Force, has also been a leader in fighting the spread of HIV/AIDS in the United States and globally. She has supported AIDS prevention and treatment and other efforts to eradicate preventable deaths from disease and malnutrition. "Today is World Health Day, a fitting time to renew our commitment to battling diseases like AIDS and malaria that claim the lives of millions of people but can be prevented," said Congresswoman Waters. As a ONE City, Los Angeles joins more than 130 cities across America in helping to raise awareness about extreme global poverty and disease. More information about ONE can be found at https://www.one.org/us/about/ ###
07.20.2009	Today, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) is meeting with President George W. Bush, along with her Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) colleagues, to outline their concerns about the direction of the Administration's policies. "Today marks only the second formal meeting the President has held with the CBC since he was sworn in as President in 2001. I believe that if the President wishes to establish a relationship with the CBC, he must give strong consideration to our concerns." At the meeting with the President, Congresswoman Waters will seek to discuss her grave concerns about the widely rumored cuts in and changes to the Community Development Block Grant Program, her objections to the Administration's continuing assault on the Section 8 Housing Program, her belief in the need for strong federal standards against predatory lending that do not pre-empt state and local laws against predatory lending, and her demand that the Administration take meaningful steps, backed by substantial new funding, to address poverty and homelessness in America. She also will seek to highlight the need for full debt relief for the world's poorest countries, and a fundamental change in our policies towards Haiti. Finally, she will seek to emphasize the need for changing course in Iraq so that we can move towards ending the loss of lives and redirect our resources towards meeting the needs of the American people. "We have an African American poverty rate of 24.4 percent; there are over 12.9 million children under 18 who are in poverty; there are 45 million Americans without health insurance; there is not a single metropolitan area where an extremely low income family can be assured of finding a modest two bedroom rental home that is affordable; and there are literally millions of people who are homeless. At a time when the Administration is about to request an additional eighty billion dollars for Iraq, all of us must ask the President squarely: What is your program for the millions of Americans in poverty? How many billions of new dollars are you prepared to devote to addressing the urgent needs of our people?" CDBG It has been widely reported that when the President submits his FY 2006 federal budget to the Congress on February 7th, he will propose a major overhaul of HUD and recommend that HUD's $8 billion community development programs be moved to other agencies. Under the President's rumored proposal, the CDBG, Brownfields, and Empowerment Zone/Renewal Community programs all would be shifted to the Department of Commerce. These same newspaper reports indicate that the President is planning to propose severe funding cuts to these programs, including possibly a 50% cut to the CDBG program from its current funding level of $4.7 billion annually. If implemented, these proposals would decimate a program that has wide public support, along with the support of local officials of both parties throughout our nation. "Any cuts to the CDBG program will leave a huge hole in the budgets of our local governments, a hole they cannot and will not be able to fill with their own resources. The net effect of cuts to the CDBG program will be a huge decrease in housing and economic revitalization at the local level. A shift of the CDBG program from HUD to the Economic Development Administration (EDA) at Commerce also would fundamentally change the mission of CDBG by changing the focus from municipal projects and the revitalization of distressed neighborhoods to business interests and economic development projects." "The rumored changes to CDBG are proposals to decimate the CDBG program, to end it as we know it, not to improve the program. These changes must be resisted," said Congresswoman Waters. Section 8 Housing"Unfortunately, despite the clear support of Congress and the public for affordable rental housing, we can expect the Administration to continue its relentless efforts to dismantle the Section 8 voucher program. It is highly likely that, in the FY 2006 Budget, the President will continue the efforts to block grant the Section 8 program and further sever the relationship between affordable rental housing funding and individuals' housing needs. I deplore the continued willingness of the Administration to increase the rent burden on residents and reduce the numbers of families served by the Section 8 program." "While I enthusiastically support all efforts to reduce disparities in the homeownership rate between the African American community, the Hispanic community and the majority community, our support for homeownership should not come at the expense of renters. We need a balanced housing policy that recognizes that renting will often be the best choice, and in many cases, the only choice, for large segments of our population with low and moderate incomes." Debt ReliefCongresswoman Waters urges the Administration to negotiate an agreement that provides 100% cancellation of multilateral debts owed by poor countries in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Treasury Secretary John Snow will have an opportunity to negotiate such an agreement at the upcoming meeting of the G-7 Finance Ministers on February 4-5 in London. "Impoverished countries will never be able to eradicate poverty as long as they must continue to make payments on old loans that they never will be able to repay," said the Congresswoman. Heavily indebted poor countries send more than $2 billion in debt service payments to multilateral creditors like the IMF and the World Bank each year. This is money that should be spent on pressing social needs like health care, education and clean water. Debt payments to multilateral creditors also interfere with poor countries' efforts to recover from disasters like the recent earthquake and tsunami in Asia. "The people of the world's poorest countries need a chance; they need full debt cancellation," said Congresswoman Waters. "The Bush Administration should negotiate an agreement with other G-7 countries to cancel poor country debts quickly and completely." HaitiCongresswoman Waters urges the President to develop and implement a new foreign policy towards Haiti. Eleven months after the departure of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the democratically-elected president of Haiti, this small nation is plagued by violence. "The Interim Government of Haiti, which is supported by the U.S. Government, is a complete failure," said Congresswoman Waters. "Haiti is in total chaos. Violence is widespread, and security is non-existent. There are over 700 political prisoners in Haiti's jails, including Former Prime Minister Yvon Neptune and several other officials of the Lavalas political party. The Provisional Electoral Council has been discredited by corruption and is incapable of organizing free, fair and democratic elections." "The United States must accept responsibility for stabilizing Haiti and bring an end to the violence," said the Congresswoman. "The Bush Administration should insist on the release of all political prisoners and ensure free, fair and democratic elections for the Haitian people." IraqLastly, Congresswoman Waters will seek to outline her concern that the war in Iraq, which was presented to the American public on the false premises of Iraq's vast stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction and Saddam Hussein's involvement in the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, is draining vital resources that could be used to fund important domestic programs and adding billions of dollars to the nation's debt. "We are spending billions of dollars on this war in Iraq - money we do not have - which could be better used to help with economic revitalization in our cities, provide additional Section 8 housing vouchers and a host of other important programs," said the Congresswoman. "I am extremely concerned about the effects this war will have on our nation's finances. Under this President, our federal budget has plunged into record deficits. In recent days, we learned that the FY 2004 deficit is the largest in American history and, already, the projections for this year are dramatic - at least $368 billion which doesn't even include the $80 billion supplemental appropriations for the Iraq War, extending the President's tax cuts, privatizing Social Security, all of which the President has said are a top priority for him. The burden for paying for all this is falling on middle- and low-income Americans and on future generations. They are being saddled with hundreds of billions of dollars of new debt. We cannot in good conscience continue these policies. We must face the music and change these failed policies." ###
07.20.2009	U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) will co-moderate the Faith Summit, "Facing Poverty in America" on Friday, March 24 - Saturday, March 25 at Friendship West Church, 2020 W. Wheatland Rd., Dallas, Texas. The Summit starts at 9:00AM. Co-moderator is Dr. Frederick D. Hayes, III, Summit Chair and Sr. Pastor, Friendship West Church. Congresswoman Waters, a member of the powerful House Committee on Financial Services and a member of the House Committee on Judiciary, will address the issues of poverty, race, and class during the 2-day Summit. "Katrina has brought the United States face-to-face with poverty, race and class," said Congresswoman Waters. "We are the most powerful country in the world; yet, we have let the people of New Orleans and the people of the United States down with our response to Katrina. So, although today we are focusing on poverty after Katrina ---- tomorrow we will continue our focus on poverty in America." Congresswoman Waters will co-moderate the following panels: Friday, March 23, 2006. 9:00AM - 10:00AM Opening Statement - Keynote Saturday, March 24, 2006. 9:10AM - 930AM Opening Remarks - Political Connectivity For more information, please contact Ms. Pat Webb, Friendship West Church @ 214/662.6757, pwebb@friendshipwest.org. or William Marshall, Jr., Office of U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters @ 202/225.2201. ###
07.20.2009	In a session that ran late into the evening, U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA), Ranking Member of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, rescued an economic development program from the Appropriations chopping block. The Congresswoman was able to garner bipartisan support to reinstate funding for the Section 108 Loan Guarantee program, which she introduced ten years ago. During that time, the Section 108 program has awarded more than $5.4 billion to hundreds of local communities in 45 states, Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia. The funds have been used to finance a multitude of economic development programs, housing rehabilitation, public facilities, and large-scale physical development projects that have generated numerous jobs at the local level. "The Section 108 program has been an essential part of jump starting economic development in local communities from Maine to California," said Rep. Waters. "It makes little sense to handicap local communities by pulling the plug on critical financial support. I thank my colleagues, both Republican and Democrat, for voting to preserve the Section 108 program, which will create jobs revitalize neighborhoods and towns across the nation." The Section 108 Loan Guarantee program has helped to generate much-needed tax revenue, create jobs, and revitalizing brownfields in: Alabama, Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Georgia, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Vermont, Virginia, Washington, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Wyoming, District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. For a copy of the communities in your state, please contact Rep. Waters' office at 202-225-2201.
07.20.2009	United States Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), a senior Member of the House Committee on Financial Services, today voted to protect military families from predatory sales practices and bogus insurance plans being pushed by insurance agents, investment advisors, and other financial institutions. The legislation, S. 418, the Military Personnel Financial Services Protection Act, passed overwhelmingly in the House of Representatives today by a vote of 418-3. "When our soldiers are fighting overseas, they should not have to worry about unscrupulous representatives from financial institutions sucking them into insurance or other investment schemes that will ruin them financially," said Rep. Waters. "Some of these organizations have claimed that the federal government had endorsed their products in order to pressure service members, veterans, and their families into purchasing outdated policies or plans with high interest rates. This legislation will stop that practice." Rep. Waters added, "Some of these sales people, who used high-pressure sales tactics, were going onto military bases, knocking on the doors of service members and selling them products that, generally, are no longer marketable to the civilian population. If these products are not good enough to sell to the general public, then we should not allow them to be sold to service members, veterans, and their families." S. 418 will require substantial disclosure regarding the sale of financial products and insurance policies on military bases. It will require predatory salespeople to inform military personnel of alternative insurance products available through the federal government and disclose how the government price would compare to their products. The bill encourages states to join with the Department of Defense to create uniform regulations and standards that will put in place additional protections for members of the Armed Services and protect them from predatory sales practices on military bases. ###
07.20.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), the Democrats' Chief Deputy Minority Whip and Vice Chair of the Democrat's Steering Committee released the following statement regarding the election of the new leadership team for the House Democrats. The new team will include Nancy Pelosi (CA-08), the nation's first female Speaker of the House, Steny Hoyer (MD-05), the new Majority Leader, and James Clyburn (SC-06), the first African American from a Southern State to be elected by his peers to the position of Majority Whip: This is a new day for our nation. Democrats have elected a strong leadership team that is committed to restoring hope and opportunity for all Americans. This institution has once again become the people's Congress and the agenda items that Democrats are committed to tackling will provide more educational opportunities for young people, increase families' access to affordable housing, provide a living wage for working families, and remove the barriers that still prevent women, minorities, children and the poor from achieving the American Dream. ### Rep. Waters is in line to be appointed the next Chair of the House Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. She is also the Chair and Co-founder of the 73-Member "Out of Iraq" Congressional Caucus. For more information, please visit: www.house.gov/waters.
07.20.2009	Thank you for the opportunity to provide testimony on Bank of America's proposed purchase of Countrywide Financial. This transaction stands as one of the most important that the Federal Reserve has reviewed in recent memory. If completed, it will create the nation's largest mortgage lender and mortgage servicer. And it will do so in the midst of a crisis—specifically, a meltdown in the mortgage markets that has led to a foreclosure wave unlike any since the Great Depression, nearly toppled a major investment bank, and resulted in a credit crunch that threatens our entire economy. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that the Federal Reserve get this right. I would be less than candid, however, if I said that I was filled with confidence that it will do so, in light of the institution's lackluster record during the run-up to this crisis. While there is plenty of blame to go around among the many—perhaps too many- federal regulatory agencies with oversight of financial institutions in the subprime lending and mortgage backed securities markets, the Federal Reserve's role in the years prior to the mortgage-market meltdown was especially distressing. First, then-Chairman Greenspan repeatedly underplayed or outright denied the possibility that skyrocketing housing prices—the only reason the lax underwriting standards that pervaded the subprime market did not lead to disaster sooner— might be symptomatic of an asset bubble at risk of bursting. As a member of the House Financial Services Committee for over a decade, I certainly don't recall him issuing forceful warnings of this possibility in his bi-annual appearances before us as mandated by the Humphrey-Hawkins Act. Second, and more troubling, the Federal Reserve declined to take even minimal steps to curb the deceptive practices and outright fraud taking place in the subprime lending market as it grew from virtual non-existence a decade ago to a $625 billion dollar industry accounting for a quarter of all mortgages in 2006. Former Chairman Greenspan never pushed subprime lenders for so much as a voluntary industry code of conduct, despite a direct plea from the Greenlining Institute and the ongoing effort to elicit one –futile as it turned out—by another major federal regulatory stakeholder, now FDIC Chairwoman Bair who was during the early years of this Administration a senior Treasury official. Most glaringly, the Federal Reserve declined to put into place comprehensive protections for subprime borrowers under the authority conferred upon it under Regulation Z of the federal Truth in Lending Act and the Home Ownership Equity Protection Act of 1994. While it issued a rule in 2001 that required income documentation for some HOEPA-covered loans, additional rulemaking under its broad authority to regulate unfair, deceptive, and abusive lending practices was not forthcoming over the next seven years-- even as so-called "no doc" loans, exotic mortgage products like "2-28" ARMs, and fraudulent sales practices permeated the subprime lending industry. Not until January of this year did the Federal Reserve propose anything near the sort of comprehensive protections of borrowers in both the home purchase and refinancing contexts that were clearly needed years ago. So troubling a history compels me to be very direct in stating that the Federal Reserve bears a heavy responsibility to prove its commitment and competence in the review of the Bank of America/Countrywide transaction. This is especially so given the activist crisis management role the Fed has assumed in recent months under Chairman Bernanke, as well as the prominence Treasury Secretary Paulson gives the institution in the Administration's proposed new scheme for regulating the financial markets. Simply put, if the Federal Reserve continues to act as the primary watchdog over financial crises in the contemporary economy, then we must be assured that it will not resume a stance of detachment and negligence when the stakes for American consumers are high. We have now learned the hard way that failure to vigilantly protect consumers inevitably leads to harm to the safety and soundness of financial institutions and the economy as a whole—the traditional realms of the Fed. Hiding its head in the sand is no longer an option. What does this mean for the Federal Reserve's review of this particular transaction? Taking a page from Secretary Paulson's approach of moving American financial regulation in the direction of so-called "principles-based" oversight of the financial markets, I suggest that two principles anchor the Federal Reserve's assessment of this acquisition. These principles can be articulated in the form of questions: First, is this transaction safe for the financial markets and the American economy? And, second, does the acquisition put in place a clear plan to ensure the best possible outcome for the millions of distressed Countrywide borrowers who face possible foreclosure? If the answer to either of these questions is no, then the acquisition must be stopped in its tracks. With respect to the stability of the financial markets, I would simply observe that the entire course of this crisis has followed a single troubling pattern. Things look bad…then they turn out to be worse than we thought. This has particularly been the case with regard to the exposure of large banks, hedge funds, and other investors to losses from mortgage-backed securities, and other instruments that have suffered plummeting values as the credit crunch spreads—including leverage loans and collateralized debt obligations or "CDOs." While it exited the direct subprime lending market a number of years ago, Bank of America recently reported mortgage-backed securities and related trading losses in the first quarter of over $1.3 billion dollars, and an 80 percent drop in profit compared to the same period last year. It has now had to reserve $6 billion to cover potential credit losses—and sits on nearly $35 billion in mortgage-backed securities, leveraged loans to private equity firms, and CDOs. Clearly, the Federal Reserve must do a careful analysis to ensure that swallowing Countrywide will not make Bank of America so sick that it soon needs the emergency life support Bear Stearns received a short while ago. The economy simply cannot withstand many such events too close together, especially given the enormous size of the post-acquisition Bank of America-- an entity that will have a piece of well over one-third of the mortgages in the United States. I caution the Federal Reserve also to examine very carefully the exposure that Bank of America has to civil and even criminal liability resulting from the recent behavior of Countrywide executives. Countrywide CEO Angelo Mozillo sold in excess of $450 million in stock in the months prior to the subprime implosion, even as he continued to tout Countrywide's subprime loan products to consumers and the markets. He is now leaving the company with a golden parachute of $120 million even after a voluntary reduction of $37.5 million. In my view, any reasonable analysis of this transaction must focus on the potential liability that Bank of America faces, as Countrywide shareholder law suits and civil and criminal inquiries that are already or may be launched by the SEC, Department of Justice, and other federal or state regulators come to fruition. However, even if a consummated acquisition results in a Bank of America that appears financially healthy, the transaction should not be permitted to go forward in the absence of a concrete, transparent strategy for ensuring that as many distressed Countrywide borrowers as possible will be able to stay in their homes, with mortgage payments they can afford for the long-term. Without this, the Countrywide name will be buried forever but the damage inflicted by its employees, and the mortgage brokers it allowed to operate with little or no oversight in communities across this state, will continue to be felt far into the future. In terms of evaluating the plan that Bank of America will, I understand, expand upon in its testimony today, I would again suggest that the Federal Reserve follow two principles. With respect to the process for executing loan workouts and other loss mitigation activities, the operative question should be: "Does this plan make it as easy for distressed borrower to get help from Bank of America resolving problems with their loans as it was to get the loan from Countrywide in the first place?" To date, the answer to this question has clearly been "no." As a threshold matter, I want to point out that Countrywide is currently the largest servicer of mortgages in the country, and its purchase by Bank of America will create by far the largest institution of this kind. I have been focused on mortgage servicers since the beginning of this debacle, and it is now clear that within a generally opaque and under-regulated mortgage market, mortgage servicers represent by far the least understood and overseen segment of the industry. With no duty to report on their activities to federal regulators or Congress, and no fiduciary obligation whatsoever to the borrowers for whom they are the first and only point of contact, mortgage servicers have acted in response to this crisis only as much as they voluntarily wish to, and told policymakers and the public only as much about their activities as they feel like. This must change. The first step is improved outreach. While the industry touts as comprehensive and effective strategies for reaching delinquent and at-risk borrowers its direct mailings, toll free HOPE NOW Alliance phone number, and participation in local homeownership preservation workshops, a different story is being told by witnesses at this and prior public hearings as well as by investigative journalists and broader gauge analyses like the one recently conducted by the California Reinvestment Coalition. It is striking to me that, while Countrywide, Bank of America, and other lenders – who are also major mortgage servicers—have run major television campaigns during recent sporting events such as the Super Bowl and NCAA college basketball tournament, encouraging prospective homebuyers and existing homeowners to take out new loans or to refinance, no campaign of equal magnitude has targeted to borrowers seeking help with workouts for their existing subprime and other troubled loans. The Federal Reserve must ensure that Bank of America's proposed post-acquisition outreach strategies significantly exceed the standard of "more of the same." This holds true as well for the accessibility and authority of loss mitigation personnel at Bank of America after the transaction takes place. In two hearings before my Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, I heard of the difficulties borrowers and even their trained advocates confronted in getting to an actual human to address their problem, much less one authorized to execute a long-term, sustainable solution such as a loan modification. Phone calls go unanswered; borrower inquiries are not responded to for months; no real loss mitigation offer is made until the borrower is on the verge of foreclosure, if at all, and then only if the borrower forfeits legal rights. While Countrywide does not appear to be the worst among servicers—again, it is difficult to know since none of them are providing data subject to outside audits—it is certainly not doing a stellar job, as witnesses at prior public hearings on this transaction have testified. Notably, like other servicers, even as it has been forced by the magnitude of the crisis to expand its servicing operations, Countrywide has tried to cut costs by outsourcing these functions to India and Costa Rica, which seems unlikely to enhance outcomes for borrowers. Meanwhile, no such belt-tightening seems to have taken place in providing rewards to the mortgage brokers who originate their loans—beneficiaries this year of an all-expenses-paid trip to Aspen, Colorado. This strike me as, at best, a misalignment of priorities and resources that cannot be permitted to survive this transaction. Finally, and most important, the Federal Reserve must hold Bank of America accountable for loss mitigation outcomes for the Countrywide borrowers it inherits. Here, the critical questions are "Will Bank of America prioritize loss mitigation outcomes that keep distressed borrowers in their homes whenever feasible, and when a loan workout is executed that achieves this goal, does the resulting repayment plan, loan modification, or other strategy put in place a monthly payment plan that is affordable and sustainable for the borrower?" I have introduced legislation—The Foreclosure Prevention and Sound Mortgage Servicing Act—that would codify this reasonable standard, and require servicers to report data demonstrating that they are meeting it going forward. I was compelled to do so because policymakers have no access to data to assess definitively whether voluntary industry efforts like the HOPE NOW Alliance are adhering to it, while the limited data disclosed by the industry coupled with the anecdotal reports of counselors, consumer attorneys, and borrowers themselves strongly suggest they are not. To provide but two examples—at my Subcommittee's hearing on April 16th, HOPE NOW revealed that fewer than 4% of total loan workouts resulted in rate modifications of five years or longer. Similarly, at the same hearing, Countrywide reported an increased pace of loan workout and modifications in comparison to its testimony at a November 2007 Subcommittee hearing. Nevertheless, as little as 15% of total loan workouts in the six months ending March 31 consisted of rate reduction modifications of 5 years or longer. I say "as little as" because, again, the data provided to me was imprecise. Step one in analyzing the proposed outcomes of any strategy Bank of America furnishes to the Federal Reserve, then, is to insist upon comprehensive, audited data on both Countrywide's and Bank of America's loss mitigation activities to date. This minimum standard is something that even Secretary Paulson—no fan of compelling industry behavior so far during this crisis—apparently took the major servicers to task for failing to meet in a closed-door meeting last week. The most fundamental issue, however, extends beyond the question of forbearance versus repayment plans versus loan modifications versus other loan workout outcomes: It is the standard of affordability that Bank of America will apply to any workout. The bottom line criterion for evaluating a workout is whether the payment plan that results is affordable to the borrower over the long-term. And neither HOPE NOW, nor Countrywide, nor Bank of America are willing to be clear about the affordability standards that are being applied to most of the distressed loans they are servicing. This cannot be allowed within the plan that Bank of America submits to the Federal Reserve. One of the most striking findings of my Subcommittee's hearings on mortgage servicing was that large servicers like Countrywide and Bank of America service mortgages originated subject to guarantees by the VA, FHA, and the GSEs – Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac—as well as large Alt A and subprime portfolios, which are where many of the problems lie. The significant portion of their portfolios subject to these governmental or quasi-governmental guarantees are must adhere to strict loss mitigation guidance issued by the guarantors, which mandate that loss mitigation offers meet certain affordability standards. These standards typically require that the borrower be left with a ratio of debt-to-income that is not too high to be sustained for the long-term. They also require that after monthly expenses including debt service on the mortgage and all other secured and unsecured debt—such as credit cards and auto loans—are deducted from a borrower's monthly income, enough money is left over that the borrower will be able to meet unexpected expenses. For example, Fannie Mae requires that $200 in residual income be available after making the monthly mortgage payment under a proposed loan workout, while Freddie Mac generally adheres to a residual income standard of 20% of borrower's monthly income. In plain English, Countrywide, Bank of America, and most other large servicers are adhering to time-tested affordability standards for a significant portion of their portfolios – which tend to be the safer products they service due to strict VA, FHA, and GSE underwriting guidelines—while utterly failing to report to the public or policymakers on the affordability standards they are utilizing in servicing the Alt A, subprime, and other riskier portions of their portfolios, much less committing to employing a uniform, proven affordability standard when servicing those loans. In my view, the Federal Reserve's assessment of this proposed acquisition must be considered negligent on its face if Bank of America is permitted to implement a loss mitigation plan for the borrowers it currently services, and those it inherits from Countrywide, that perpetuates this lack of transparency and uniformity with respect to the affordability standard that applies to loans its services falling outside the purview of the VA, FHA, and the GSEs. I conclude by stating that the American people desperately need for the Federal Reserve's assessment of this massive mortgage market-related transaction to represent a triumph of hope over experience – a new chapter in which the Fed ensures that major mergers and acquisitions yield positive outcomes for consumers and communities, as well as the institutions involved. Thank you. ###
07.20.2009	Concerned about rising gas prices, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted today to temporarily suspend the U.S. Department of Energy's purchase of oil to fill the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Congresswoman Waters said, "With today's vote Congress is taking another step to lower gas prices and move the nation's energy policy in a new direction so Americans can enjoy a cleaner, safer future." The national average price of a gallon of regular gasoline has climbed to a record $3.73. In California, the average price for regular gas is $3.94, with premium gas averaging $4.26 per gallon and diesel at $4.67 according to the AAA Daily Fuel Gauge Report. Congresswoman Waters said, "At a time when many people in California are paying four dollars or more for a gallon of gas, we need to find ways to help families who are feeling the squeeze. Instead of diverting 70,000 barrels of oil every day to keep in reserve, we should be making it available in the market. Economists tell us this temporary suspension could reduce gas prices from 5 to 24 cents per gallon, which would help families, businesses and the overall economy." The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is about 97 percent full now – the highest level ever – with enough oil to meet U.S. national security needs. Although the last three Presidents have all suspended or tapped the SPR previously, President Bush has refused repeated calls from Congress to halt deposits of oil now. The legislation passed by the House today suspends filling the SPR through the end of the year unless the price of crude oil falls below $75 per barrel. The Senate today passed similar legislation by a vote of 97-1. The House will consider additional energy legislation before Memorial Day. ###
07.20.2009	As required by the Humphrey-Hawkins legislation, the Federal Reserve must transmit a Monetary Policy Report to the Congress twice a year outlining its monetary policy and reporting on the state of the economy. Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke testified today before the House Financial Services Committee regarding the report, and Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), a senior member of the Committee and chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, issued the following statement. "Chairman Bernanke delivered clear and straightforward testimony to the Committee, and was responsive in his answers to Members' questions. I appreciated this because the economy is clearly going through a difficult period, and it is no time for our leading monetary policymaker to be opaque or evasive in his appearances before Congress." "Chairman Bernanke acknowledged the challenges facing the economy, particularly the contraction in the housing market and the spillover effect of tightening overall credit conditions. This obstacle to economic growth has been compounded by rapid increases in the cost of gasoline and other commodities, which create inflationary pressures even as they sap consumer purchasing power. The overall impacts include a decline in the labor market of 94,000 jobs per month through June, an increase in unemployment to 5.5% and continued weakness in the housing market. However, the Board's Members and Reserve Bank presidents conclude from relatively strong consumer and business spending data that, while output would expand slowly for the remainder of 2008, economic growth will pick up gradually over the next two years." "The Federal Reserve has taken major steps in the past six months to prevent large disruptions in the financial markets. The Chairman explained clearly how the Fed provided liquidity in the credit markets by easing the terms for bank borrowing at the discount window and increasing the amount of credit banks could access through the Term Auction Facility. He also made a strong case for the Fed's emergency intervention in the Bear Stearns collapse and to work with the Treasury Department to lay out a plan to ensure the stability of the GSEs, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Congress will be examining the latter issue in the coming days." "Finally, I want to commend Chairman Bernanke for the Fed's recent actions on behalf of consumers. Unfortunately, the subprime lending crisis resulted in significant part from federal regulators' failure to intervene—most prominently a Federal Reserve that declined to act on its own authority in the area, which was established in 1994. It is heartening that Chairman Bernanke is changing this troubling pattern, by issuing new rules relating to subprime lending and credit card disclosures. I would have preferred some to have gone further, such as outright bans on prepayment penalties for mortgage loans, but this is a promising start." ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives on Monday in support of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act, legislation drafted by Congress to stabilize American financial markets, help American families and small businesses and protect taxpayers and homeowners. Although the legislation did not pass the House on Monday, the House is scheduled to vote tomorrow on legislation passed by the Senate that includes financial rescue provisions. A copy of Congresswoman Waters' statement from Monday on the importance of passing legislation that helps the people and businesses on Main Street follows: First, I would like to thank Barney Frank [Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee] for his extraordinary work, accepting the impossible task of making sense of the economic crisis we are facing. Madam Speaker, $700 billion is a lot of money. Bailout for Wall Street? I don't think so. I could care less about Wall Street and the high-priced schemers and their tricky products: hedge funds, short selling, and insider trading. I care about Main Street and Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive. I am voting "yes" on this bill because this $700 billion will purchase the nonperforming loans, the bad debt, and the toxic paper which, if left to the market, could cause the greatest financial crisis our country has ever seen. These nonperforming loans represent people, real Americans in trouble. Yes, some got in over their heads. They contracted for mortgages they could not afford. But many Americans are the victims of predatory lending, suckered into adjustable rate mortgages that lured them with a low interest rate, no down payment, or no documentation loans that adjusted or reset within 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, or 3 years. Homeowners were not always told the truth. Upon reset, homeowners were then faced with mortgages that doubled, tripled, or quadrupled with the new interest rates and the margins that were added to the existing interest rates. There's enough blame to go around. Greed, a regulatory system that turned a blind eye to these exotic schemes and products, brokers and banks who peddled these products, and investment banks who invested in these products all share some of the blame. We must correct the problems caused by these loans. We must modify these loans and stop the foreclosures and help American families keep their homes. We must reform our Federal regulatory agencies and never allow this subprime exploitation to occur again. Today we have financial institutions that will fail if we do not act. Credit will dry up for home mortgages, auto purchases, student loans, and small businesses. More jobs will be lost and the economy will crash. I would have preferred to have a strong bankruptcy provision in this bill, giving Americans a real option to work themselves out of debt. I would have also liked to have seen a provision providing a substantial fee to Wall Street firms that participate in this program. But, unfortunately, there was not the support or political will to get these things done. I have worked on this bill to strengthen the ability for the servicers who collect those mortgage payments and fees to modify these loans. I have worked to assist small regional and minority banks. I have included language to open up the ability for women and minorities to participate in asset management and all the other business opportunities, including opportunities for the newspapers, ad agencies, consulting firms, real estate professionals, legal services, financial managers, and information systems consulting services that will be created as we use these funds to clean up this mess. Madam Speaker, I am also pleased that the bill creates a Financial Stability Oversight Board to oversee the work that is to be done in this Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. Finally, I cannot take the chance that people who have worked all of their lives to save for their retirement will lose their pension funds and 401(k) savings nor can I take the chance that the stock market will be weakened and Americans will lose their investments. There will be many who will say "I don't believe the average person will be hurt if we do not act." I refuse to take that chance. Today we do what we truly believe must be done. But believe me, we must and we will tighten the screws on Wall Street. This bill will support the idea that we must get rid of these outrageous compensation packages for CEOs and executives. We must prosecute those who violate the law and ignore their responsibilities. Today I vote "yes," but there is much more to be done. We must never again allow the risk to our economy that's been created by greed to ever occur again. ###
07.20.2009	The U.S. House of Representatives today passed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (H.R. 1424) by a vote of 263 to 171. The legislation reinvests in the troubled financial markets to stabilize the economy and reforms how business is done on Wall Street by implementing strong oversight and limiting excessive compensation. H.R. 1424 also provides tax relief for families, businesses and communities. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), who serves as a member of the House Financial Services Committee and chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, spoke in support of the legislation, focusing her remarks largely on how it helps American homeowners. A copy of Congresswoman Waters' floor statement follows: I rise in support of H.R. 1424. I voted for the financial rescue legislation that came before us on Monday because I believe that the economy is in a perilous situation, with the credit markets in real danger of seizing up. This is still the case, and we must act or average Americans will suffer: To give a concrete example of how the tightening credit market is affecting consumers, the nation's largest Chevrolet dealer went out of business on the very day this chamber rejected the previous version of this legislation, because its customers could not get access to financing for auto loans. Simply put, we must now pass H.R. 1424, a bill that reflects additional Senate input into the legislation we previously considered, including incentives to develop alternative energy and help lessen our nation's dependence on foreign oil. I want to speak briefly about a concern that many are expressing about this legislation, namely, that there is nothing in it for homeowners. This is simply not true. In fact, H.R. 1424 does a lot to help homeowners. Let me be specific. This legislation will increase loan modifications for distressed borrowers and therefore prevent foreclosures and help homeowners remain in their homes. In cases in which the Secretary of the Treasury or another agency such as the FDIC owns or controls the entire mortgage, the Secretary must facilitate reasonable loan modifications. In other words, where the federal government calls the shots on servicing the mortgage, it has to execute loan modifications to prevent foreclosure wherever possible. In cases where the Secretary or another agency partially owns a mortgage, the Secretary must work with servicers to modify the loan under the recently enacted Hope for Homeowners program. Hope for Homeowners is an important new program that enables lenders to obtain an FHA guarantee for certain distressed loans in return for a substantial reduction in the principal, helping the borrower to refinance and remain in the home. (This program should not be confused with the HOPE NOW Alliance, the industry initiative that has clearly been inadequate to stem the foreclosure crisis.) H.R. 1424 takes an additional important step by permitting refinancing before a loan resets. In addition, the Secretary has the authority and means to make sure servicers have the capacity to execute loan modifications. He could establish a loan program to provide capital to help servicers who otherwise might move quickly to foreclose because they cannot afford to keep making payments for delinquent borrowers. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, and House Financial Services Committee Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA) have sent a letter urging President Bush to appoint Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) Chairwoman Sheila Bair to supervise and coordinate a government-wide effort to reduce foreclosures. Congresswoman Waters believes there is an urgent need to contact homeowners at risk of foreclosure and work with them to modify their loans so they can avoid losing their homes. The full text of the letter follows: Dear Mr. President: As you know, we've been working in close consultation with your Administration to address our serious housing market problems and the broader economic crisis they have precipitated. There are several aspects of recent government actions that will allow us to have a major impact in mitigating foreclosures and stabilizing the housing market – the government takeover of the operations of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the Hope for Homeowners program that became effective on October 1, and the language in Emergency Economic Stability Act requiring the Administration to implement the program in a way that will maximize foreclosure mitigation. Certainly the government's role will necessarily differ in regard to mortgages the government actually owns or controls and others that remain in pools backing securities in the private market. The combination of tools available, however, allows us to have a substantial impact on the foreclosure crisis that continues to undercut economic recovery. It is important that we achieve maximum success on the foreclosure mitigation front by effectively coordinating the various programs and authorities now available to us. We have been very impressed with Sheila Bair's work on foreclosure mitigation in her capacity as Chair of the FDIC and we urge you to appoint her to head a government-wide effort to supervise and coordinate our efforts on behalf of homeowners. Giving one official clear responsibility, particularly one as knowledgeable on the subject as Chairman Bair, will improve the effectiveness of the efforts of the federal government at a time when prompt and efficient action is most urgently needed. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA), Chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity and a leading advocate for homeowners, today renewed her efforts to encourage loan modifications to prevent foreclosures. Congresswoman Waters joined other leaders of the House Financial Services Committee – Chairman Barney Frank (D-MA), Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises Subcommittee Chairman Paul E. Kanjorski (D-PA), Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit Subcommittee Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney (D-NY), Domestic and International Monetary Policy Trade and Technology Chairman Luis Gutierrez (D-IL), and Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee Chairman Melvin Watt (D-NC) in issuing a statement on the importance of loan modifications to help homeowners avoid foreclosure. Responding to a report in the New York Times today that at least two hedge funds oppose efforts to renegotiate loans, Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues called on the hedge funds to allow loan modifications. The full text of their statement appears below: "What Congress passed overwhelmingly and President Bush signed last July provides for a reasonable modification of mortgages that clearly never should have been granted in the first place to avoid foreclosure and thus lessen the economic damage that a cascade of foreclosures has been doing to our economy. In drafting this legislation, we consulted with a wide range of consumers, industry, and government regulatory groups, and we believe we adopted a reasonable proposal. Indeed, we have been criticized by some in the consumer community for not doing more to pressure institutions to avoid foreclosure while minimizing their losses. In light of this, we were outraged to read that two hedge funds, Greenwich Financial Services and Braddock Financial Corporation, are instructing the servicers of their mortgages to defy this national program and to insist on further socially and economically damaging foreclosures. We believe the law clearly allows for modification where such changes would involve a lesser loss than foreclosure, and the benefits to the whole economy of such an approach are obvious." "For hedge funds, which have been the beneficiary of a lack of regulations and a very permissive attitude, now to put obstacles in the way of this important national policy is intolerable. We have written to these two hedge funds and to the Managed Funds Association as well, strongly urging them to reverse this policy which will have such negative impacts on the economy. Because this is so important, and because this irresponsible, antisocial behavior by these hedge funds has such important implications, we have set a hearing of the Financial Services Committee for November 12, and we are inviting these companies as well as the Managed Funds Association to attend. If we are not able to get voluntary attendance, then we will pursue steps to compel them. "Many in the financial community have objected to the argument many of us have made that homeowners should be allowed to invoke the protection of the bankruptcy laws on single family residences, as they are on second and third homes. The argument in the financial community has been not only that this would be damaging, but that it would not be necessary to achieve the economically desirable result of reduced foreclosures. But the decision of these two companies actively to oppose our efforts to achieve voluntary compliance quickly undercut that argument, and people in the financial community should not be surprised if this sort of blatant refusal to show any cooperation whatsoever with our efforts leads to an increased demand for much tougher legislation." In addition, the Representatives announced that the Financial Services Committee will hold a hearing on this issue on November 12, and they sent letters to the leaders of the 2 hedge funds in question (Braddock Financial and Greenwich Financial) and the Managed Funds Association (the trade association for the hedge fund industry) asking them to appear and testify. These letters can be viewed at https://financialservices.house.gov ###
07.20.2009	Immediately following President Barack Obama's address to a joint session of Congress tonight, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) issued the following statement: Tonight we are reminded once again not only what a gifted speaker President Obama is but also a great leader. We are indeed fortunate that he is in the White House at this moment in our nation's history. President Obama continues to inspire hope and optimism. Even as he spelled out the very serious challenges we face and acknowledged the real hardship that millions of Americans are suffering, he gave us confidence that we can – and we will – work together to meet these challenges and get through these tough times. Solving America's housing crisis is absolutely necessary to helping our communities, turning around our financial institutions and improving our economy. As Chairwoman of the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee, I am taking a lead role to help homeowners who have seen the value of their homes decrease, and I am especially concerned about the millions of families at risk of losing their homes to foreclosure. President Obama has announced an initiative to help homeowners, and I think this is a huge step in the right direction to stem the tide of foreclosures. In particular, I applaud provisions of his plan that will encourage mortgage servicers to use loan modifications so homeowners can afford to stay in their homes and that will allow refinancing to assist homeowners whose mortgages are slightly underwater. I believe that the President's economic recovery plan, which has now been passed by Congress and signed into law, will succeed in creating jobs and reviving America's economy. In addition, we are making important investments in our future by supporting education, healthcare, clean energy and new technology. President Obama also hinted at what his budget will include – and what it won't. I look forward to learning the details later this week. Clearly, America cannot afford to spend and spend and spend given the recession and the record deficit run up by George W. Bush. However, we can also not afford to neglect essential programs that assist our most vulnerable populations and that offer opportunity for all people to share in the American dream. I am confident that the President's budget will recognize these priorities, and I look forward to working with him to move our country in a new direction. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) spoke today in support of the Fiscal Year 2009 Omnibus Appropriations Act (H.R. 1105), which the U.S. House of Representatives passed today. This legislation will fund the federal government through September 30. The Bush Administration last year insisted on unacceptable cuts in funding for vital programs in areas including education, healthcare and biomedical research, law enforcement and energy. As a result of this failure to work with Congress and compromise in order to complete nine appropriations bills, decisions were left to the new Congress which has now included funding in a single omnibus bill. Together with the recently passed economic recovery package this bill makes investments to address America's immediate needs and invest in our future. Congresswoman Waters said, "Last night, President Obama said that a budget should be more than just a list of programs and dollar amounts— it's a document that should reflect our values as a Congress. I'm proud to support this omnibus bill as a reflection of my values." She cited the following programs as examples of those she is proud to have worked with her colleagues to fund: Housing • $2.5 billion for the Public Housing Capital Fund: for Public Housing Authorities to make critical repairs and improvements to public housing units and improve living conditions for residents. This is $11 million above last year. • $16.8 billion in Section 8 Tenant Based Vouchers: to enable 1.9 million individuals and families to continue living in safe, affordable housing and to provide 14,000 new, targeted vouchers for the disabled and homeless veterans during the housing crisis. This is $341 million above last year. • $7.1 billion for Section 8 Project Based Vouchers: to provide affordable housing to 1.3 million low-income families and individuals, two-thirds of whom are elderly or disabled. $668 million above 2008. Education and Job Training • $7.1 billion in Head Start: to ensure that 900,000 low–income children have access to high quality preschool services. $235 million above 2008. • $15.0 billion in Title I Grants for Low-Income Children: to help disadvantaged students at more than 50,000 schools improve academic achievement. • $1.5 billion Dislocated Workers: to help the Department of Labor train and place 360,000 workers who have lost their jobs during the economic crisis ($2 million above FY08). Health • $2.2 billion for Community Health Centers: to provide an additional 470,000 uninsured Americans with access to community health centers. $125 million above last year. • $171 million for Health Professions Training: to support nurse education programs at a time when our country faces a nursing shortage, $15 million above 2008. • $2 million for the Missing Alzheimer's Disease Patient Alert Program, a doubling of funding from last year. International Aid • $5.5 billion for international HIV/AIDS prevention, treatment and care programs including $600 million for multilateral programs through the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. • $251 million for Haiti, including humanitarian aid, economic development, and military aid. Congresswoman Waters added, "Particularly in this time of economic crisis, it's vital that we continue to invest in our economy to keep our country strong." The House Appropriations Committee, chaired by Congressman Dave Obey (D-WI) has prepared an overview of the omnibus bill – presented below – which includes links to fact sheets on each of the nine appropriations bills included: • Energy Security: Increases funding for renewable energy and energy efficiency efforts to increase the production of clean, efficient, American energy key to our long term economic security. • Scientific Research: Makes strong investments into cutting edge science so that our nation will maintain its preeminence in the global economy. • Healthcare Access and Affordability: Improves access to quality, affordable healthcare. • Education to Promote Opportunity: Promotes our future economic strength by investing in K-12 education and helping families send their kids to college. • Workers: Helps American workers in the tough economy train for and find good jobs in safe workplaces. • Safe and Healthy America: Protects Americans by investing in programs to ensure clean air and water and the safety of our food, medicine and consumer products. • A Critical Look: The bill cuts and eliminates programs that haven't performed the way they should, and includes strict accountability measures to ensure American tax dollars are spent wisely. It invests in oversight efforts carried out by the Inspectors General and the Government Accountability Office. • Regulation for an Economy in Chaos: Strengthens regulatory agencies that had been neglected, to beef up their efforts during the economic crisis. Searchable bill text and explanatory statements and earmark certifications letters are available here: https://appropriations.house.gov/FY2009_consolidated.shtml ###
07.20.2009	Concerned that minority and women- owned business enterprises could be excluded from participating in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Term Asset Backed Securities Lending Facility (TALF), and other federal programs designed to strengthen the nation's financial markets, the Congressional Black Caucus convened a TARP / TALF Access Summit today in Washington, DC. Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA) and Congressman Greg Meeks (NY), co-chairs of the CBC Economic Security Taskforce, along with CBC Chairwoman Barbara Lee (CA), led the efforts to organize the Summit and presided over a lively and informative discussion. "At this early stage of the Obama Administration, as the federal government is still developing and implementing its response to the financial crisis, we want to make sure that these programs are inclusive and draw on the talents, skills and expertise of everyone willing and able to help," said Congresswoman Waters. The event brought together high-level government officials including Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and representatives from the Treasury Department, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), and the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and a standing room only crowd of 300 women and minority financial services professionals including accountants, attorneys, consultants, financial advisors and asset managers, and real estate brokers. CBC Members and many of the minority- and women-owned businesses acknowledged that the Obama Administration already is proving to be more responsive to and welcoming of input from minority communities. However, they emphasized the need to continue advocating on behalf of minority- and women-owned businesses. Congressman Meeks said, "We had a fruitful dialogue today, and this is just the beginning. Members of the Congressional Black Caucus will remain actively engaged and follow up to hold the private sector recipients accountable and to ensure that government is responsive to and inclusive of all tax-paying Americans." "Today's discussions are a critical step in addressing barriers faced by minority and women-owned business enterprises to participate in the TARP and TALF programs. This morning's discussions provided a useful forum on the structure of the programs and access issues faced by minority and women-owned businesses," said Congresswoman Lee. Congresswoman Waters cautioned against relying solely on a handful of major firms to fix the financial markets. "It doesn't make sense to trust just a few of the same old Wall Street firms with trillions of taxpayer dollars, especially since some of them are the same ones responsible for the crisis Americans are in now," she said. She emphasized that our nation cannot afford to return to business as usual and must not exclude the talents of anyone. "In recent weeks, we have heard much about prominent banks and other institutions being ‘too big to fail'. Today America's minority- and women-owned business enterprises are exclaiming, ‘We have experience and qualifications that can help America out of the economic crisis, and we are too numerous to ignore,' and the CBC will make sure this does not fall on deaf ears." ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) and Congressman James Sensenbrenner (R-WI) today introduced H.R. 1855. the Private Property Protection Act of 2009, legislation that would restore property rights that the Supreme Court changed in its controversial 2005 decision in Kelo v. City of New London. In Kelo, the Court upheld the ability of the government to transfer privately owned property against the wishes of the owner to a large corporation, declaring that the resulting economic development would produce benefits to the community, and therefore, be considered permissible "public use" under the Takings Clause of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution. The Court's ruling raised concerns that government could use its power to seize private property from individual private citizens for the benefit of more powerful, better connected, wealthier private parties. "Our legislation restores fairness and protects every American citizen from being deprived of a fundamental right by a powerful government," said Congresswoman Waters. "Quite frankly, as a progressive Democrat I do not often agree with, let alone co-sponsor bills with, Congressman Sensenbrenner who is a conservative Republican, but we both feel strongly about the principles at stake. The abuse of eminent domain at the expense of individual property owners is not what our founders intended. This legislation is important and necessary to restore a basic right." "One of the foundations of American government is the protection of private property rights," Sensenbrenner said. "This is important legislation that will prevent the government from using its power of eminent domain to justify taking someone else's property in the name of ‘economic development.' With this legislation, homes, farms, churches and other privately owned property will be safe from a land grab from someone else. That practice is abhorrent and should be stopped." The Private Property Rights Protection Act of 2009 restores the property rights of all Americans and prevents the federal government or any authority of the federal government from using economic development as a justification for exercising its power of eminent domain. The bill would also discourage states and localities from abusing their eminent domain power by denying states or localities that commit such abuse all federal economic development funds for a period of two years. Congresswoman Waters and Congressman Sensenbrenner introduced this legislation as H.R. 3053 during the 110th Congress. This bill is substantially similar to H.R. 4128, legislation that passed the House in the 109th Congress by an overwhelming vote of 376-38 but was never enacted. Several states have taken steps to secure property rights after the Kelo case. For example, California voters passed Proposition 99 in June 2008, amending the state constitution to prohibit state and local governments from using eminent domain to acquire an owner-occupied residence for conveyance to a private person or business. In 2006 two Wisconsin laws protecting property owners went into effect. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) responded to the Treasury Department's announcement today of additional guidance for potential applicants interested in participating in the Legacy Securities part of the Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP), an effort to bolster the nation's financial institutions. The Treasury Department press release can be viewed at https://www.treasury.gov/press/releases/tg82.htm Congresswoman Waters said, "I am encouraged that the Treasury Department seems to be taking steps to enable small, minority- and women-owned business enterprises (MWBEs) to participate in the Public-Private Investment Program such as extending the deadline and evaluating criteria holistically. Treasury officials appear to have heard the suggestions made by participants at the Congressional Black Caucus TARP/TALF Access Summit and are making an effort to be responsive. However, I remain concerned that even under the updated guidelines, the burden remains on minority- and women-owned businesses to find willing partners among a select group of very large asset managers who do not have a particular incentive to welcome their assistance. For example, asset managers wishing to participate should be evaluated in part based on their inclusion of MWBEs as partners, and firms that form such joint ventures should be given a higher priority for approval. Having a diverse array of firms providing financial services will strengthen our economy so it is once again vital and healthy. I hope that the Treasury Department will give this aspect of the program additional consideration, and I would be happy to work with Treasury to help them further revise the guidelines in way that expands the opportunities for small, minority and women-owned businesses to be included." Congresswoman Waters, a senior member of the House Financial Services Committee and co-chair of the CBC Economic Security Taskforce, has been a leader of efforts to ensure that PPIP, the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), the Term Asset Backed Securities Lending Facility (TALF), and other federal programs designed to strengthen the nation's financial markets, are fully inclusive. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) reiterated her call for credit card companies to end unfair practices that hurt American consumers as the House of Representatives today passed the Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights (H.R. 627). Congresswoman Waters was an original co-sponsor of the legislation, which included an amendment she introduced addressing how card issuers are treating credit lines. "Credit card companies are engaged in outrageous and unacceptable practices including charging excessive fees and exorbitant interest rates. They are arbitrarily changing the rules and terms that apply including changes for loyal customers who have a record of consistently paying their bills on time. Even in the best of times this is bad business, and now during a recession it adds to the financial burdens of American families. This situation is particularly galling because some credit card companies are receiving billions of dollars from taxpayers while gouging these same taxpayers with high interest rates and fees on their credit cards," said Congresswoman Waters. The Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights protects cardholders against arbitrary interest rate increases, excessive fees, due-date gimmicks and double-cycle billing. The legislation also cracks down on misleading and deceptive marketing by credit card companies, prohibits them from issuing credit cards to minors, and curbs practices that result in high fees on low-income consumers with weak credit histories. In addition, the bill empowers cardholders by giving them information and rights they need to make important financial decisions. "The Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights provides important financial protections for American families that are especially welcome during the current economic crisis," said Congresswoman Waters. Almost half of American families currently carry a balance on credit cards, and for them the average balance was $7,300 in 2007. One fifth of Americans carrying credit-card debt pay an interest rate above 20 percent. This year credit card companies are expected to receive more than $20 billion from late fees, over-limit charges and other penalties. The Federal Reserve determined that credit card companies engage in "unfair, deceptive, and anti-competitive" practices. Concerned about reports that some credit card companies are reducing credit limits and raising interest rates for customers based on factors including where they shop, their shopping choices and credit transactions, and who their mortgage lender is, Congresswoman Waters introduced an amendment that requires the Federal Reserve to report to Congress on such practices. "These disturbing practices are affecting consumers who are otherwise in good standing with their credit card issuer. Reductions in credit can hurt a consumer's credit score, making it difficult to refinance a home, buy a car, and even in some instances get a job. We need to learn more about the extent of these practices, and if necessary I will introduce legislation to prevent this from happening," Congresswoman Waters said. The Credit Cardholders' Bill of Rights is supported by consumer advocates, civil rights groups, public interest organizations, labor unions and the National Small Business Association. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters and other members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC) reacted favorably to an announcement today that Goldman Sachs selected Williams Capital to manage $1 billion of U.S. treasury and government agency securities. "We applaud the commitment to diversity that Goldman Sachs is demonstrating by selecting a minority business enterprise to manage this significant investment," said CBC Economic Security Taskforce co-chair Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA). "As a senior member of the Financial Services Committee, I have worked to expand opportunities for small, minority- and women-owned financial services firms, so I am pleased that firms like Williams Capital are being recognized for their experience and capabilities and being given a chance to contribute." CBC Economic Security Taskforce co-chair Rep. Gregory W. Meeks (D-NY) said, "It is critically important that diversity remains a top priority in the financial services sector as many minority-owned businesses are suffering in the midst of this financial crisis. I believe that this partnership between Goldman Sachs and Williams Capital is an extremely positive step in bringing diversity to the world's leading financial capital. Williams Capital is a proven firm with a tremendous track record of success. This Goldman Sachs investment will provide Williams Capital the ability to grow its business in a very strategic and impactful way." Reps. Waters and Meeks recently organized an event bringing together high-level government officials from the Federal Reserve, Treasury Department, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to discuss opportunities for minority- and women-owned business enterprises and minority financial services professionals including accountants, attorneys, consultants, financial advisors and asset managers, and real estate brokers to participate in federal financial recovery programs administered by these agencies. The taskforce has also encouraged large financial institutions participating in programs such as the Trouble Asset Relief Program (TARP), Term Asset-Backed Securities Loan Facility (TALF), and the Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP) to partner with small, minority and women owned businesses to help stabilize the national economy. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today voted in favor of a "cash for clunkers" program that will allow consumers to trade in their old, gas-guzzling cars for vouchers worth up to $4,500 to help pay for new, more fuel-efficient vehicles. The Consumer Assistance to Recycle and Save (CARS) Act, H.R. 2751, will spur the sale of up to one million more fuel-efficient cars and trucks, while stimulating the ailing auto industry and reducing our dependence on foreign oil. " ‘Cash for Clunkers' is a smart program that will help save money at the gas pump, grow our clean energy economy and cut down on pollution as we reduce consumption by over 250 million gallons of gas," said Congresswoman Waters. "It goes a long way towards getting Americans back to work and behind the wheel of a cleaner, more environmentally-friendly car." The legislation saves consumers money by providing rebates for people who trade in old vehicles to buy new, more fuel-efficient cars and trucks in the following four categories: • Passenger Cars: The old vehicle must get 18 miles per gallon (mpg) or less. New vehicles with an improvement of at least 4 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with an improvement of at least 10 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. • Light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 18 mpg or less. New vehicles with an improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher. New vehicles with an improvement of at least 5 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. • Large light-Duty Trucks: The old vehicle must get 15 mpg or less. New vehicles with an improvement of at least 1 mpg will get a $3,500 voucher or trade-in of a "work truck." New vehicles with an improvement of at least 2 mpg will get a $4,500 voucher. • Work Trucks: The old vehicle must be a pre-2002 model. New vehicles in the same or smaller weight class will get a $3,500 voucher. The bipartisan legislation is supported by a broad coalition that includes the AFL-CIO, UAW, car dealers, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers. Similar efforts abroad have yielded impressive results: Germany boosted its automobile sales by 20 percent after similar legislation was implemented. "So many people support this bill because it's a win for the consumer, the economy, the environment, and the auto industry," said Congresswoman Waters. "We're able to save American consumers money and save American jobs, and at the same time we help our struggling auto dealers while we continue along the path towards a cleaner, greener economy." ###
07.20.2009	To fight the tightening of credit that has left many families and businesses without the means to pay their bills, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) introduced H. Res. 553 today. The resolution calls on Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner to use their authority and encourage financial institutions to increase consumer and business access to credit. Congresswoman Waters is particularly concerned that banks and credit card companies have been reducing credit availability to longtime customers who hold accounts in good standing. Congresswoman Waters said, "Banks were bailed out with the expectation that they would pass that funding along to consumers and businesses in the form of additional loans and lower interest rates. Instead banks have done the opposite. They have tightened credit standards and slashed credit lines, even for customers who are in good standing. This is unacceptable." Congresswoman Waters cited higher unemployment rates, the rising price of goods, and the need to stretch paychecks further as reasons why consumers need access to credit now more than ever. The Congresswoman is particularly upset that financial institutions are curtailing credit in light of the recent Treasury Department and Federal Reserve banking stress test results. According to the data from the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program, all 19 bank holding companies surveyed have sufficient capital to resume normal lending activities. "The stress tests gauged whether our nation's largest banks have the necessary capital to lend. According to regulators, all of the banks passed. That means they have the capacity to resume normal lending activities, which entails making additional loans and extending more credit. There are no more excuses. It is time for the banks to start lending again," said Congresswoman Waters. Original co-sponsors of H. Res. 553 include Louis Gutierrez (D-IL), William Lacy Clay (D-MO), Al Green (D-TX), Keith Ellison (D-MN) and Alan Grayson (D-FL). Since the initial credit contraction of August 2007, banks and credit card companies have received more than $1 trillion in government assistance, including $750 billion through the Troubled Assets Relief Program (TARP) and nearly $700 billion more through liquidity programs such as the New York Federal Reserve Bank's commercial paper funding facility and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation's temporary liquidity guarantee program. According to the most recent loan survey from the Federal Reserve, consumer and business access to credit has tightened over the past 24 months. Banks have concurrently slashed consumer credit limits and raised the minimum required credit scores on new account holders. These actions penalize consumers who have seen their credit scores reduced as a result of discriminatory lending tactics such as credit profiling. ###
07.20.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today voted to pass landmark clean energy legislation that will create millions of new American jobs, limit the pollution that causes climate change, and reduce our nation's dangerous dependence on foreign oil. The American Clean Energy and Security Act builds on clean energy investments made in the stimulus package and unleashes private sector investment to create jobs here in America that can't be outsourced. "This bill is a crucial part of our economic recovery," said Congresswoman Waters. "It will create millions of new American jobs and entire new industries. Helping reduce foreign oil imports by more than 5 million barrels a day — what we currently import from the Middle East and Venezuela – improves our national security. We will also reduce the carbon pollution that causes global warming, using the same solution that successfully fought acid rain in the 1990s." With a combination of price spike protections, energy refunds and cost-saving technology, this bill will protect consumers, keep costs low, and protect current jobs by helping energy-intensive industries transition to a cleaner, more profitable future. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the legislation would cost a typical American household less than a postage stamp per day, or less than $111 a year. However, Congresswoman Waters emphasized that lower income households will see no new costs; in fact the Congressional Budget Office reports that they will actually save $40 per year with the plan. The bill will significantly reduce dangerous pollution by limiting emissions from electric utilities, oil refineries, and other major sources. It also promotes all forms of American clean energy, including wind, solar, geothermal, and biomass. This bill is the same type of market-based American solution successfully put into place to fight acid rain with the bipartisan Clean Air Act in 1990, which led to a 10 percent decrease in electricity rates and the creation of 16 million new jobs. "This bill sets out to tackle a pressing global challenge in a way that creates jobs and grows the economy, makes us more energy independent, and protects consumers and taxpayers in the process," said Congresswoman Waters. The legislation is supported by a coalition that includes consumer groups, electric utilities, car companies, manufacturers, environmental organizations, agriculture and forestry groups, and labor organizations among many others. H.R. 2454 also includes provides an amendment offered by Congresswoman Waters that provides funding for green retrofits of public and assisted housing. "As Chairwoman of the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, I understand the need for green improvements to public and assisted housing," Congresswoman Waters said. Earlier this month the Subcommittee held two hearings on H.R. 2336, the GREEN Act of 2009. The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), the largest operator of affordable housing in the nation, testified that it spends an estimated $5 billion annually on energy, more than 10 percent of its annual budget. "By implementing energy savings of 5 percent a year over five years, HUD could realize $1 billion in savings," Congresswoman Waters stated. Low-income families who occupy HUD's housing are more likely to live in older and less energy efficient buildings. According to one study families in these developments spend approximately 16 percent of their annual income on energy, which is 4.4 times more than higher income families spend. "Many families must make the difficult choice of heating their homes or seeking other necessities, such as medical care, food, or transportation. This is simply unacceptable," Congresswoman Waters said. To address this problem, Congresswoman Waters offered an amendment, which was included in the final bill, to dedicate 10 percent of funding from the Retrofit for Energy Efficiency and Performance program (REEP) for green improvements to public and assisted housing. This will provide $50 to $100 million a year for these important housing programs. "I fought for the inclusion of this amendment to ensure the federal government meets its commitment to affordable housing," Congresswoman Waters stated. "Without these funds we would simply continue the irresponsible behavior of the previous administration which did everything in its power to demolish, diminish, and otherwise disinvest in the nation's affordable housing stock. My amendment corrects this injustice." The funds would be provided to public housing units, Section 202 housing for the elderly, Section 811 housing for persons with disabilities, and housing in the project-based Section 8 program. In addition, Congresswoman Waters included language to protect tenants from possible rent increases, prohibit recipients from using the funds for demolition, and provide for the long-term affordability of developments receiving funding. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement today in celebration of Cinco de Mayo: "Today I join with millions of Americans in celebrating Cinco de Mayo and moreover in celebrating the importance of Latinos in this country. In particular, we recognize the many contributions Mexican Americans have made and continue to make and how their achievements strengthen our nation. I am proud to represent all of the residents of California's 35th District. We have diverse communities, including a large Latino population. While the Latino community has expanded in recent years, of course from the very beginning Los Angeles has been home to Latinos as the name of our city itself suggests. Cinco de Mayo, which marks the historic triumph of the Mexican people over the French Army in the battle of Puebla in 1862, has become a symbol of unity and patriotism in Mexican history. And this date serves as a reminder for us that all peoples – regardless of their race or color – need freedom, liberty and self-determination and that all cultures are worthy of respect. In the United States, Cinco de Mayo is also a celebration of the rich cultural heritage Mexican Americans have brought with them for many generations. Latinos are a vital part of our society, workforce, economy and culture not only in Los Angeles but also throughout California and all across the United States. And Latinos share with other Americans the common goals of freedom, opportunity, and a chance to build a better life. I am working with my Democratic colleagues in Congress to move our country in a new direction to ensure that the Latino community has every opportunity to reach the American dream. As our nation currently is in an economic downturn, I know that many Latino families, like other American families, are struggling to make ends meet – facing stagnant incomes and skyrocketing gas prices, food prices, college costs, and health care costs. Congress is taking action to address these challenges by enacting an economic stimulus package that provides tax rebates of hundreds of dollars to 130 million households, making college more affordable by cutting the costs of student loans, working on housing legislation that could help 1 to 2 million Americans avoid foreclosure, and passing bills to bring down gas prices. I will continue to fight for policies that promote fairness, equality, justice and opportunity for all. On this special day, I express my appreciation to Mexican American and Latino communities for making our economy stronger and our culture more vibrant; and thank you for helping to improve our society." ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) celebrated Cinco de Mayo by participating in events in Gardena and in Watts over the weekend. She recognized the City of Gardena Cinco de Mayo Committee on the occasion of the 23rd annual Cinco de Mayo Celebration and Parade and praised the committee's "outstanding work in providing an opportunity for Gardena residents to celebrate and share the city's rich history and cultural diversity and promoting unity, peace and community pride." Congresswoman Waters also recognized the Watts/Century Latino Organization on the occasion of the 17th annual Watts Cinco de Mayo Celebration and expressed appreciation for the organization's "continued service to the community by providing an opportunity for Los Angeles residents to experience a celebration that crosses cultural barriers". Cinco de Mayo, which means May 5th, marks the triumph of the Mexican people over the French Army in the battle of Puebla on May 5, 1862. "Today is not only about that historic battle of many years ago. On Cinco de Mayo, we also celebrate the importance of Mexican-Americans and indeed of all Latinos to our communities, to California and to the United States," said Congresswoman Waters. "This date reminds us that all peoples – regardless of their race or color – need freedom, liberty and self-determination and that all cultures are worthy of respect." Congresswoman Waters noted that according to Census data more than half of the residents of the 35th Congressional District are Latino. "I am proud to represent a diverse, multicultural population, and I remain committed to working on behalf of all of my constituents. I want to help our Latino families share in the American dream, and I am proud of the efforts that Congress and President Obama are making to help jumpstart the economy, improve healthcare and education and assist small businesses," she said. ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Rep. Maxine Waters released the following statement: "As was evidenced by the massive protest marches around the country over the past few weeks, immigration reform is an issue that can no longer be ignored. With over 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States, we must decide on an immigration policy that accomplishes the following goals: Secures our borders to curtail the influx of undocumented immigrants from the North and the South and develops security policies that address all illegal immigration. Provides for the deportation of undocumented criminals and violent gang members. Allows 11 million undocumented immigrants in this country to gain legal status under a comprehensive policy --- with criteria. Includes a livable wage standard for all workers and punishes employers who violate the law. I will continue to insist on fair and humane treatment for all families --living and working in the United States. Unfortunately, the bill proposed by House Judiciary Committee Chairman James Sensenbrenner, H.R. 4437, is the most punitive and unrealistic piece of legislation attempting to deal with immigration reform. Specifically, it: (1) gives Department of Homeland Security the authority to continue detention of individuals who have served their sentences based upon a determination that they are a 'dangerous alien,' contrary to Supreme Court rulings against indefinite detention; (2) subjects anyone or any organization who 'assists' an individual without documentation 'to reside in or remain' in the U.S. knowingly or with 'reckless disregard' as to the individual's legal status to criminal penalties and a minimum of five years in prison; and (3) allows local police officers to profile-stop-question-search-and-detain suspected undocumented workers on sight. This bill singles out the undocumented and criminalizes them. It serves as a catalyst for massive protest and as a blueprint for bad public policy. This bill does not provide for the legalization of the 11 million currently undocumented immigrants already in the country. This approach is unrealistic. We simply cannot arrest, detain, jail and/or deport 11 million undocumented immigrants. There are other bills circulating, such as the 'Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act,' S. 1033, co-sponsored by Senators Ted Kennedy and John McCain and its House companion, H.R. 2330, introduced by Reps. Jim Kolbe, Jeff Flake, and Luis Gutierrez. These bills include increased border security measures, criteria for earned legalization, and the reduction of case backlog for family-based applications. These bills present a more sensible and a comprehensive approach to this expansive and challenging issue. Although this issue is going to require serious debate and compromise in the U.S. Congress, we must address the reality of millions of undocumented immigrants in this country. Let's take the politics out of this issue and develop a bi-partisan solution to a bipartisan problem." ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement on the sixth anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks: Rep. Waters said "Today we remember the innocent victims and brave heroes who lost their lives on September 11, 2001. We honor their memories by recalling the triumph of the American spirit in the six years that have followed the horror of 9-11. "We will never forget the moment each of us first heard the news on that fateful day. We will never forget the first images of the twin towers burning and eventually collapsing and we will never forget the shared pain of so many lives lost in vain. "But, perhaps more importantly, we will never forget the pride of a country united against terror. We will never forget the courage of the police, fire fighters, and other first responders who rescued the lives of countless citizens, often at the cost of their own. We will never forget the bravery of those aboard flight 93 who confronted their hijackers, and we will never forget the sight of American rescue crews working at ground zero in the days, weeks, and months following the attack. We honor the heroes of 9-11 who selflessly placed their duty, love of country, and responsibility for fellow man above concerns for personal safety. "Behind the staggering number of victims directly involved in the events of September 11th are the families, friends, and co-workers who have shared the national tragedy on a very personal level. I mourn the more than 3,000 who died on September 11th at the hands of the terrorists, and I extend my most heartfelt condolences to those who loved them. "For the above reasons, and for the future safety and security of this great nation, we must be vigilant and insure that our military resources are always used with the ultimate goal of eradicating terrorism, maintaining the security of our homeland and fostering peace and liberty throughout the world." ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) received a perfect score for her pro-environment voting record in 2008 according to the League of Conservation Voters (LCV). LCV, a non-partisan national environmental organization, compiles the National Environmental Scorecard each year. Every Member of Congress is evaluated on the basis of votes on the key environmental issues in the Senate and House of Representatives during each session of Congress. The House votes considered in this year's scorecard cover measures to promote clean, renewable energy sources such as wind and solar, increase energy efficiency, encourage conservation, support mass transit and end subsidies for oil companies. Congresswoman Waters voted "pro-environment" on all 13 issues monitored by LCV. "We congratulate Congresswoman Waters for her perfect score," LCV President Gene Karpinski said. "In voting pro-environment on every key vote in 2008, Congresswoman Waters has again proven her commitment to solving the nation's major energy and environmental issues." The average score for the 53 Representatives from California is 61%. Congresswoman Waters is among 14 California Representatives – all Democrats – to score 100%. (Eleven California Representatives – all Republicans – received scores of 0.) Congresswoman Waters also received a perfect score in 2007, so her average for the entire 110th Congress is 100%. "I will continue to support policies that will protect our planet. Increasing the production of renewable energy will make our air and water cleaner, will help create millions of "green jobs" and will help America become less dependent on foreign oil," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.15.2009	Teachers and other school workers as well as parents of students in the Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) thanked Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) for her leadership in efforts to prevent job cuts proposed in the district's budget for next year. Congresswoman Waters initiated a letter to members of the LAUSD Board of Education seeking a delay in any move towards layoffs, and eight of her colleagues who represent other Congressional districts where LAUSD students and employees live signed on to express their support. When the letter was read at the school board meeting this week, a crowd including teachers, other school workers and parents of students rose to give it a standing ovation. They breathed a sigh of relief after Superintendent Ramon Cortines and the board postponed a decision on job cuts for next year. "Students are our future leaders, and we must be committed to providing them the best education possible," said Congresswoman Waters. "Laying off teachers would result in more crowded classrooms, and eliminating the jobs of cafeteria workers, clerical workers and custodians would have a negative impact on the learning environment of our students. I am pleased that the school board heard our call and decided not to enact harmful job cuts now, especially at a time when unemployment in California has already soared to its highest level in more than 25 years." Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues pointed out that in the recently enacted economic recovery package, Congress provided significant funding to help school districts like LAUSD struggling to meet budget shortfalls. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) established a $53.6 billion State Fiscal Stabilization Fund which can be used to restore state education cuts, prevent teacher layoffs, prevent other education cutbacks, and renovate public schools, among other purposes. LAUSD will likely receive some of this funding once the state of California determines how to distribute its portion of ARRA funds. The full text of the letter Congresswoman Waters and her colleagues sent is attached. March 31, 2009 Members of the Board Board of Education Los Angeles Unified School District 333 South Beaudry Avenue, 24th Floor Los Angeles, CA 90017 Dear Honorable Board Members: We write as members of the Los Angeles Delegation of the U.S. House of Representatives to encourage you to delay any action that would result in layoffs among Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) personnel at this time. We fully recognize that you must deal with a budget shortfall and make every effort to balance your budget. However, we have worked very hard to make certain that support for our nation's public schools was included in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA), which was passed by Congress and then signed into law by the President last month to stimulate our economy. For example, the ARRA establishes a $53.6 billion State Fiscal Stabilization Fund, which can be used to restore state education cuts, prevent teacher layoffs, prevent other education cutbacks, and renovate public schools, among other purposes. We are hopeful that you will examine the possibilities of reducing your budget shortfall with resources provided by this economic recovery package, and we offer you our assistance in doing so. We are living in a time of tremendous economic uncertainty. If personnel were to lose their jobs now, they would face an extremely difficult job market. California employers led the nation in mass layoffs in February as the state's unemployment rate hit 10.5%, the highest level since April of 1983, state and federal labor agencies reported recently. California lost 116,000 jobs in February, bringing the 12-month total to 605,900. Unemployment in Los Angeles County increased by a slightly larger margin, to 10.9% in February from a revised 10.4% in January and 6.1% a year earlier. Education must be our number one priority. Today's learners are indeed tomorrow's leaders. The personnel who are responsible for the education of our children must be supported in every way possible. The dedicated teachers, cafeteria workers, clerical workers, and custodians of LAUSD deserve nothing less. Respecting the difficult situation you are in, we call upon you to delay any actions that would cause the layoffs of any personnel at this difficult time. We should not jeopardize the education of our children by laying off dedicated and experienced personnel without considering every possible alternative. Therefore, we support the resolution offered by Supervisor Marguerite Lamont, and we urge you to pass this resolution. We look forward to working with you to support the personnel who educate the children of Los Angeles. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Lucille Roybal-Allard Diane Watson Laura Richardson Linda Sanchez Howard Berman Henry Waxman Xavier Becerra Adam B. Schiff ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) celebrated Teacher Appreciation Week by paying tribute to teachers during a visit to Jordan High School in Los Angeles today. She spoke to a group of approximately 75 teachers, recognizing them for the important and demanding work they do and thanking them for their service. "Teachers are vital to the success of our children, our communities and our country. I have worked to provide educators with the resources they need and deserve, and I am proud to support efforts in Congress that will improve our schools. Investing in education means investing in our teachers, and this must be a priority," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters noted that President Obama has identified education as one of his top priorities and that she and her colleagues in the 111th Congress provided substantial funding for educational programs in the economic recovery package passed earlier this year. In addition, the federal budget for Fiscal Year 2010 includes investments to strengthen public schools, reward effective teaching, support best practices and improve student achievement. During her visit, the school staff recognized Congresswoman Waters as an honorary "bulldog", the mascot of Jordan High. Congresswoman Waters also spoke to an assembly of 300 students, emphasizing the importance of staying in school, graduating and pursuing higher education. "To be qualified for the high-skilled and high-paying jobs of the 21st century, you must have a good education. Increasingly, how much you earn depends on how much you learn. I know that students at Jordan High School as at other inner-city schools face obstacles, but I have confidence in you and believe that if you work hard you will succeed," she said. Congresswoman Waters praised the recent success that students at Jordan High School and their teachers have demonstrated. The school's Academic Performance Index has increased by 17 points, two-thirds of students passed their English Language Arts and Math state exams last year, and the school leads District 7 in the percentage increase of students passing core college preparatory classes. Teacher Appreciation Week (celebrated May 3 – 9 this year) is sponsored by the National PTA to strengthen support and respect for teachers. ###
07.15.2009	United States Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), a Member of the House Judiciary Committee, today expressed her disappointment with House Republicans for allowing reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act to be hijacked by a handful of their members from Southern states. Ms. Waters released the following statement: The notion that a handful of Republicans from Southern states can rally enough support to hijack reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act is a slap in the face to the civil rights pioneers after which this legislation is named—Fannie Lou Hamer, Rosa Parks, and Coretta Scott King. This delay is inexcusable. The nine Southern states that receive extra scrutiny under Section 5 of the VRA are states where minorities still report serious and intentionally manufactured barriers to voting. This move should really make African-Americans, Hispanics, Asian-Americans and other people whose communities continue to be intimidated and bullied on election day question how seriously the Republican party takes their right to vote. Out of respect for Ms. Hamer, Ms. Parks, and Ms. King and the sacrifices made by these venerable women, the Republican Leadership in the House has a moral obligation to bring this bill to the floor today. We must vote on it, and pass it without amendments that will erode the progress that has been made to protect the voting rights of all Americans. ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35), a senior member of the House Committee on the Judiciary, today joined with Members of the Congressional Black Caucus to lead the debate for reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 (VRA). "Today, I cast a vote on behalf of the millions of men and women across the nation who have been blocked, intimidated, beaten, and even killed trying to exercise their Constitutionally guaranteed right to vote," said Rep. Waters. "House passage of the Voting Rights Act is only the first step. I will continue to fight to make sure it passes in the Senate and is signed into law by President Bush." For months, Democrats and Republicans worked in good faith to construct a version of the VRA that would protect minority voting rights. However, two weeks ago, when this non-controversial bill was scheduled to be brought to the floor for a vote, a handful of maverick Republicans were able to force a delay. Their actions prevented it from being considered at all. This week, a large coalition of civil rights leaders, African-American, Hispanic and Asian Members of Congress started putting more pressure on the Republicans to bring the VRA to the floor and vote to reauthorize it. After many hours of behind the scenes negotiations within their party, the Republican leadership allowed four of their members, mostly from Southern states, to offer poison pill amendments that would have severely weakened protections in the VRA. "I believe each one of the Republican amendments was designed specifically to dilute essential provisions in the Voting Rights Act," said Rep. Waters. "Each one of the amendments was resoundingly defeated, which was a victory for minority voting rights and democracy." The VRA is responsible for minority communities being able to elect the representatives of their choice. In 1964, there were only 300 black public officials nationwide. Today there are more than 9,100, including 43 members of Congress. In 1975, the VRA was expanded to include language minorities, resulting in nearly 6,000 Hispanic elected and appointed officials today, including 27 in Congress. Native Americans, Asian Americans and others who have historically encountered harsh barriers to full political participation also have benefited greatly from the VRA. This legislation must still be passed in the Senate and signed into law by President Bush. ###
07.15.2009	United States Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) voted against H.R. 4844, the Republican sponsored Federal Election Integrity Act of 2006 because it would create a modern day poll tax and was reminiscent of the tactics used in the past to deny minorities access to the voting booth. Rep. Waters also opposed this legislation because it would mandate that the states force American citizens to purchase voter identification cards, and, if they do not buy one of the new cards, they will not be allowed to vote. "The right to vote should not be tied to whether or not American citizens can afford to pay for and carry this one specific piece of identification when a driver's license, a state ID card, or another currently available form of identification is proven to be sufficient in states that require identification," said Rep. Waters. "The Republicans have no idea how much this scheme will cost. Voters might be stuck paying whatever it costs their state to collect the data, set up offices, buy computers, manufacture the cards, and mail them to voters. All of those costs would be passed on to the voters and could make these cards very, very expensive." Rep. Waters, who in 2000 chaired the Democratic Caucus' Special Committee on Election Reform added, "After the massive voter disenfranchisement in Florida in 2000, I held hearings and took a good, hard look at real voting irregularities across the nation. We found dozens of problems that prevented legally registered voters from casting a ballot. But this legislation makes no attempt to solve those problems. Instead, it takes a huge step backwards to the days of literacy tests and poll taxes and denies American citizens the right to vote if they cannot afford to pay for a state mandated ID card." According to national estimates, H.R. 4844 is going to cost states $128 million in 2006 and $78 million to implement between 2007 and 2011. In addition to being a bill that is impossible to fund, the courts have consistently struck down similar legislation at the state level. Last week, a Missouri court in Weinschenk v. Missouri found that the state's law, which required a government-issued photo ID to exercise voting rights, violated the state constitution, and prior to that ruling, a Georgia federal court in Common Cause v. Billups struck down a similar state law for the third time because it violated the U.S. Constitution. The judge in the Missouri case stated that voting is a "right and not a license" and that the photo ID requirement would be a particular burden on women, the poor, the undereducated, and the elderly. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) has called on the U.S. Department of Justice to protect the rights of Americans to vote and to investigate thoroughly and immediately complaints about efforts to suppress or interfere with the rights of eligible voters. Congresswoman Waters expressed her concerns in a letter this week to Attorney General Michael Mukasey: I am writing to urge you to fully carry out your responsibilities under the Constitution and the laws of the United States to ensure that no eligible American is prevented from exercising his or her right to vote. I am very concerned about the growing number of reports in numerous states indicating that the ability of eligible citizens to exercise their right to vote in the upcoming elections might be at risk. I request that you share with me the status of any investigations that the Department of Justice has undertaken to prevent election crimes or other efforts to suppress or interfere with the right of eligible individuals to vote. Credible complaints must be investigated in a timely and thorough manner by the Department of Justice when these complaints are brought to the Department's attention and not after the upcoming elections. As Election Day (November 4th) approaches, and early voting is already underway in many states, there have been troubling reports about impediments to voting. Congresswoman Waters cited "a widely reported scheme in Michigan to use foreclosure lists to challenge voters at their polling places." During a September 16th oversight hearing of the House Judiciary Committee, of which she is a member, Congresswoman Waters asked the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation to investigate this matter, noting that the FBI had done commendable work this year to investigate and prosecute some of the institutions and individuals who have been involved in mortgage fraud and other activities that have contributed to the financial crisis that our nation is currently experiencing. On September 18th, she joined Chairman John Conyers (D-MI) and other Members of the Judiciary Committee in sending a letter to the Attorney General requesting a prompt investigation of complaints regarding the use of foreclosure lists to challenge voters in Michigan. In her more recent letter to the Attorney General, Congresswoman Waters – who chairs the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity – explained, "I have been particularly concerned about those who have engaged in predatory lending because this illegal practice disproportionately impacts the most vulnerable in this country, including the elderly, the poor and minorities." Efforts to disqualify voters on the basis of foreclosures would similarly target members of these groups. Last month, Congresswoman Waters introduced House Concurrent Resolution 424, which urges the Department of Justice to protect the right to vote of every eligible person in the United States by promptly and thoroughly investigating possible violations of federal law. The Resolution enumerates some of the most serious complaints of problems and possible violations of federal law, including voter caging, deceptive practices, and improper list purges. If unaddressed, they could interfere with the right to vote of citizens in Michigan, Virginia, Mississippi, Maryland, Florida and other states affected by recent hurricanes or natural disasters. This Resolution currently has 61 co-sponsors. Congresswoman Waters noted that the New York Times published an investigative report on October 9th that describes in detail possible violations of federal law in several states that have resulted in tens of thousands of eligible voters being wrongly removed from the voting rolls or blocked from registering to vote. "It appears that media organizations have conducted more investigations into these allegations than the Department of Justice," she wrote. The implementation of a new "No Match, No Vote" state law in Florida potentially threatens to disenfranchise thousands of voters in that pivotal swing state, which of course was at the center of the controversial presidential election contest between George W. Bush and Al Gore in 2000. Several Members of the Florida Congressional Delegation, who are also cosponsors of H. Con. Res. 424, sent a letter to the Governor of Florida earlier this month expressing concerns. Because voting rights are fundamental rights within a democracy and because the consequences of this year's elections are so significant, Congresswoman Waters wants to make sure the rights of all Americans are protected. In concluding her letter, she wrote, "Given the growing number of reports of problems that could result in the disenfranchisement of countless voters in several states, I believe it is imperative for the Department of Justice to accelerate the investigation of these complaints immediately. I am deeply concerned that failure to act could result in the irreversible loss of the exercise of the right to vote in the upcoming election. Investigations after the elections will not cure the damage of a lost vote in what has been described as the most important election in a generation." Click here to see the letter. ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) was inducted into Bennett College for Women's "Society of Our Wise Women" on Thursday, October 5, 2006. The College bestows this honor upon "women who have made significant contributions to their professions and/or communities" and honors the commitment these women make to "share their knowledge and wisdom with others." This year is the fifth and final year that the award will be presented. "Over the years, I have received numerous awards, and I have been recognized many times," said Rep. Waters. "But to be called wise by an organization as venerable as Bennett College, is the greatest type of recognition one can be given. I am enormously appreciative and sincerely flattered." In addition to Rep. Waters, the other women inducted on Thursday were Dr. Alma Adams, member of the North Carolina State House of Representatives; Dr. Rosa Hill, a California educator, activist, and philanthropist; and Dr. Tonea Stewart, educator and acclaimed actress from the television series In the Heat of the Night. This year's honorees were added to the list of past inductees who include Dr. Maya Angelou, Atlanta Mayor Shirley Franklin, Lt. Col. Consuelo Kickbusch (Retired), and a living member of Bennett's first all female graduating class, Ms. Rose Mae Catchings. Bennett College for Women in Greensboro, NC was founded in 1873 as a co-ed institution and reorganized in 1926 as one of two Historically Black Colleges in the U.S. that focuses exclusively on the education of women. ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) was a panelist at Princeton University's Hip-Hop Symposium on Friday, October 6, 2006. The event was coordinated by the Princeton student group "Hip Hop: Art & Life" along with the national Center for American Progress. The panel discussion was designed to explore the role of the hip-hop generation as the youth culture that is in the best position to initiate social change in post-9/11 America. According to a Princeton senior who was a principle organizer of the event, the symposium was designed to contrast the four original figures of hip-hop culture—the emcee, the DJ, the graffiti artist and the B-Boy—with the four pivotal figures of social change—the politician, the intellectual, the artist, and the student. "The hip-hop community is a vast, powerful network of creative and talented trend-setters, who greatly influence culture in the United States," said Rep. Waters. "During the Civil Rights movement, young people forced this nation to confront racism and segregation. Today, the hip hop community is similarly positioned to be a force to be reckoned with. We must create the much needed dialogue to resolve the inter-generational miscommunication and develop strategies to help our communities use the power of the hip-hop culture to create positive change. The hip-hop culture has produced superstars and millionaires. The question remains how can the stardom and wealth be used to support education, civil rights, the elimination of poverty, and the development of political power?" In addition to Rep. Waters, the other members of the panel included Dr. Cornell West, a Princeton professor and leading scholar; Talib Kweli, the hip-hop artist commonly dubbed "the thinking man's rapper"; Bakari Kitwana, an author and freelance journalist; Rosa Clemente, a hip-hop journalist, activist, and community organizer; and Maria McMath, a Princeton doctoral candidate. The event was moderated by Black Entertainment Television's Jeffery Johnson. The symposium was entirely arranged by Princeton students and was scheduled to coincide with the anniversaries of a number of historical events, namely, the first anniversary of Hurricane Katrina, the fifth anniversary of 9/11, and the 219th anniversary of the signing of the U.S. Constitution. ###
07.15.2009	In the wake of racially derogatory statements made by Shock Jock Don Imus, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) calls for swift and profound action on the part of CBS Radio and MSNBC in the following statement: "I find the recent remarks by Don Imus, who referred to the Rutgers Women's Basketball team in a derogatory and racist manner to be both outrageous and unacceptable. I call on CBS Radio and MSNBC to do the right thing and fire him immediately and for both Network to apologize for his behavior, which he has exhibited time and again since the very beginning of his show. You may recall that his show has been a platform for such negative and demeaning remarks, similar in nature, without any penalty. His show has been so audacious as to make statements such as: ‘Venus and Serena Williams were better suited for National Geographic than Playboy', ‘Female soccer players are juiced-up dykes', ‘Faggots play tennis' and said ‘Palestinians were stinking animals'. These Networks should have known of his dangerous actions instead of allowing him to continue to speak without concern and proper supervision. To merely require a two weeks suspension is not enough; it is a slap on the wrist for Imus, who will feel little discomfort, pain or punishment for his actions. The response from the Network should be swift and profound. I intend to join with other African American leaders, civil rights groups, journalist and women's groups in pressing for his firing. My actions will also extend to advertisers, as their dollars should not continue to support Imus' outrageous and disrespectful action." ###
07.15.2009	I was deeply saddened to learn of the death of Yolanda King, eldest daughter of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and I join with the scores of people across this nation who mourn her loss. Through her theater work, Yolanda created a safe space for dialogue and action on issues of race, class and gender. Using her family's legacy as her muse, Yolanda interpreted our nation's most difficult problems through a lens of imagination and truth, providing us with a template for significant social change through the arts. My prayers are extended to her siblings; sister Reverend Bernice A. King, and brothers Martin Luther King III and Dexter Scott King. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) made the following statement in support of H. Res. 83, which the U.S. House of Representatives passed unanimously yesterday: I rise in strong support of House Resolution 83, Recognizing the Significance of Black History Month, and am proud to be an original cosponsor of this measure. Some have asked if our country still needs to formally recognize Black History Month. My answer is, "Absolutely, yes!" Just as students are taught about American and World History throughout their school years, the contributions of African American to this great nation and to the world still need to be taught and re-taught. In fact, the recent and historic inauguration of President Barack Obama as our country's first African American President of the United States of America underscores the continued need to celebrate Black History Month. While most Americans now know President Obama's story, too many Americans still do not know or understand that he stands on the shoulders of many brave African American men and women. In fact, just a few years ago, most of my colleagues here in the House had never heard of a young leader named Barack Obama. Black History Month gives us a wonderful opportunity to share a better understanding of the stories of hardship and inspiration of our past and present leaders with new generations of Americans. While many people may have heard about Malcolm X or Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. or Rosa Parks, far too many young people don't know about Shirley Chisholm, the first African American woman to serve in this House of Representatives and to run for President of the United States. Too many young people still have no idea about the work of Fannie Lou Hamer to ensure that African Americans in Mississippi could actually exercise the right to vote and not just point to the words printed on paper. We have come an incredibly long way from the struggles that Dr. Carter G. Woodson faced in 1926 to set aside one week in February to recognize the contributions of African Americans to this country. It seems so fitting that we are now able to devote the entire month of February for this important recognition, in the month that we also celebrate the lives of Abraham Lincoln and Frederick Douglass. For all the problems faced by America during the lifetimes of Lincoln and Douglass, including the barbaric but legal institution of slavery and a civil war that almost destroyed the union, by studying the contributions of these great leaders, the country made itself better. That is why we must continue our celebrations of Black History Month – so we can learn more about the contributions of unsung leaders as well as those whose name we already know. In recognizing Black History Month, we continue the work necessary to make a more perfect union. Black History Month is not however simply a time for ceremony; it is a time to live up to our promise by making equality, freedom and justice our national reality. ###
07.15.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent a letter to Secretary of Transportation Norman Mineta, urging him to reconsider the decision of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to relocate critical FAA support functions from the Los Angeles Regional Office to Seattle. The letter also urges the Secretary to ensure that all affected FAA employees are offered comparable jobs in the Los Angeles area, if the relocation should proceed. The letter was signed by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Senator Barbara Boxer, and twelve Members of Congress from the Los Angeles area. The text of the letter follows: We are concerned about the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) announced plans to strip important support functions from the Los Angeles Regional Office. We question not only the wisdom of the decision, but the adverse effect it will have on affected employees. On January 23, 2006, Congresswoman Waters sent a letter to FAA Administrator Marion Blakey outlining her concerns with the decision of the Air Traffic Organization (ATO) to relocate the Western Service Area Office (SAO) from Los Angeles to Seattle (enclosed). As you will recall, Congresswoman Waters met with you on March 1, 2006, to explore the issues raised as a result of that decision. As a result of relocating the ATO's administrative functions 1500 miles to the north, there will be a dramatic loss of intellectual capital from the FAA that will jeopardize the administration of Southern California air traffic, airspace, and engineering issues and projects. This brain drain will adversely affect the safety of the flying public. The ATO Western SAO needs to remain close to Southern California facilities. Experience teaches us that facilities located near regional headquarters receive far better programs, funding, and service than do outlying facilities. A remote SAO will neglect the huge facilities of the LAX basin. The planned restructure equates to a reduction in force of over 100 jobs over the coming calendar year in the Los Angeles Office. A move to Seattle presents many employees with the Hobson's choice of either forfeiting careers or abandoning friends and families. The restructure will also place a disproportionately heavy burden on the backs of minorities and single parents who rely on family for child care. We call on the Department to reconsider its decision. Should the restructure nevertheless proceed, it will adversely affect many lives. Therefore, it is very important that all affected employees be offered comparable jobs in the Los Angeles area. We appreciate your attention to our concerns, and we expect that the FAA and the Department will keep us apprised of all phases of the ongoing reorganization of the ATO, especially in regard to the impact on Los Angeles area affected employees. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Dianne Feinstein Jane Harman Barbara Boxer Juanita Millender-McDonald Henry Waxman Howard Berman Linda Sánchez Xavier Becerra Grace Napolitano Hilda L. Solis Joe Baca Adam Schiff Diane Watson ###
07.15.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (CA-35) sent a letter to Marion Blakey, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), to request a copy of a report analyzing the FAA's proposed realignment of the Air Traffic Organization (ATO). The letter was signed by Rep. Jan Schakowsky (IL-9) and Senator Richard Durbin (IL). The realignment would relocate several ATO support services including services currently being performed by FAA employees in Rep. Waters' and Rep. Schakowsky's congressional districts. The text of the letter follows: We have serious reservations regarding the purported cost savings attributable to the announced realignment within the Air Traffic Organization's (ATO) nine regional offices. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) maintains that the restructure will yield savings of $360 million to $460 million over the next ten years. We would like to examine the basis for this assertion. In the summer of 2005, the consulting firm of Booz Allen Hamilton submitted to the FAA an analysis entitled "ATO Structure and Process Evaluation: Final Report" or some similar name. Despite numerous requests at the staff level, the FAA has failed to produce this document. By this correspondence, we request copies of the complete Booz Allen Hamilton report (not merely an executive summary) with all attachments and appendices. We appreciate your attention to this request and look forward to your cooperation. ###
07.15.2009	United States Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today testified at a hearing before the Committee on Transportation's Subcommittee on Aviation on efforts to modernize the nation's Air Traffic Control system. During her testimony, Rep. Waters urged the Subcommittee to reject a proposal to restructure the Los Angeles office of the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Air Traffic Organization (ATO), which is located in Hawthorne, CA. The Los Angeles ATO office provides services to all of the airports in Southern California, including Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), the fifth busiest airport in the world. Under the current restructuring proposal, approximately 86 employees would be given the choice to relocate to an office 1,500 miles away or lose their jobs. Rep. Waters, whose Congressional District includes both LAX and the Los Angeles ATO office, discussed the potential safety threats that could result if the FAA's plan is implemented. That portion of her statement follows: Southern California is among the world's busiest airspaces and serves more passengers than any other region in the United States. Southern California Terminal Radar Approach Control, which provides radar air traffic approach control services to all arriving and departing aircraft for most airports in Southern California, is the busiest approach control in the world. Phoenix, Las Vegas, Albuquerque, Oakland, and Southern California are among the fastest growing sites of air travel in the United States. All of these airspaces and facilities are currently served by the Los Angeles Regional Office. Under the proposed restructure, they would all be served from Seattle. In the years ahead, LAX is scheduled for major modernization and safety enhancements worth billions of dollars, programs with which the FAA will play a key role. An ATO Service Area Office needs to be close to Southern California Facilities to provide immediate and expert attention. A Service Area Office 1500 miles away will result in neglect of these huge and critical facilities. Experience tells us that facilities located near headquarters and regional offices receive better programs and quicker service than outlying facilities. Distancing the service operations away from Los Angeles is folly. When a controller in a tower flips a switch to turn on a radar, that radar had better turn on. If it doesn't, someone from the regional office had better respond quickly. Neither the controller, the pilot, nor the air passengers will find solace that a repair has been delayed because the closest Service Area Office is over 1500 miles away. ### Full Statement Hearing on Air Traffic Control ModernizationSubcommittee on AviationCommittee on Transportation Statement by Rep. Maxine Waters June 21, 2006 Introduction Chairman Mica, Congressman Costello, distinguished members of the Subcommittee on Aviation: thank you for allowing me to testify during this hearing on "Air Traffic Control Modernization: The Present and the Future." My congressional district is home to Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), the fifth busiest airport in the world. It is also home to the Western Pacific Regional Office of the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Air Traffic Organization (ATO). The modernization of our nation's air traffic control system is of tremendous importance to me and my constituents, as well as the millions of travelers who fly into and out of my district every year. Background The FAA is proposing to restructure the ATO into three service areas: Eastern, Central, and Western. Under the FAA's proposed plan, the Eastern Service Area Office would be in Atlanta; the Central Office would be in Fort Worth; and the Western Office would be in Seattle. The six regional offices that would be adversely affected by this reorganization are in Anchorage, Boston, Chicago, Kansas City, New York, and Los Angeles. I believe that this plan represents a step backward in the agency's mission to provide the safest, most efficient airspace system in the world. Costs The FAA maintains that the restructure will yield savings of $360 million to $460 million over ten years. I question these optimistic projections. Despite requests, the FAA has failed to disclose the analysis that support these projections. Congress cannot assess the agency's estimates without being given access to the full report of the ATO Structure and Process Evaluation and the proper time to review it. I would also recommend a third party review or audit of the projected savings. Under the proposed restructure, the relocated ATO employees would spend more time in travel and less time doing their jobs. More air travel by the ATO employees themselves would be needed to support and administer California, Arizona, New Mexico, and Nevada projects and facilities from a Seattle office. That will result in less work, more travel expenses, and diminished safety margins. Allow me to note that the FAA recently adjusted downward by $500 million the anticipated savings from last year's privatization of the Flight Service Stations. This sudden and significant restatement of projected savings has provoked a GAO audit, and appropriately so. Needless to say, this development does not bolster confidence in the FAA's unaudited projections. It bears pointing out here that the cost-saving rationale does not appear to apply to certain parts of the country. I have been informed that the FAA has seen fit to create exceptions to directed reassignments for employees of the Anchorage and Kansas City regional offices. Thus, loyal FAA employees who happen to work in the Boston, Chicago, New York, and Los Angeles offices will have to move or lose their jobs. For some reason, employees in Anchorage and Kansas City may keep their current stations. The Customer The pending reorganization removes ATO engineers and managers away from the customers they service. Let's be clear who we mean by "customers": Airports and the state and local governments that sponsor airports. Under the reorganization plan, the FAA points of contact relied on by the customers are moving to remote Service Centers. Much of the business performed by these ATO engineers and managers is performed in the field and in face to face contact. It cannot all be replaced by the telephone. So, under the reorganization, a lot of the customer service won't be done as well, or it won't be done at all. If there were to be reorganization, the ATO's original proposal made far more sense than its later pronouncement. Originally, the Western Service Area Office was placed in Los Angeles, minutes from LAX, where it would be centrally located to serve the busy and growing air traffic spaces and facilities of the Western Pacific Region. The Employees Although I have seen varying estimates, approximately 400 ATO employees nationwide would be reassigned to the three new Service Area Offices. At last count, about 86 employees in the Los Angeles Regional Office will be given directed reassignments to an office 1500 miles away. Their choice will be to leave LA, or leave the FAA. The reorganization plan affects highly trained and qualified employees the FAA needs to make the national air system as safe and efficient as possible. It's not just secretaries and bookkeepers affected by the restructure. Civil and electrical engineers are being given the ultimatum. These engineers are the men and women of our government's air traffic system who work with radars, navigation equipment, communication systems, and other technology that keep planes in the air moving safely to their destinations. Under the plan, there would be a dramatic loss of intellectual capital from the FAA. The loss of civil and electrical engineers who would choose early retirement or resignation rather than relocation would strain the administration of air traffic, airspace and engineering activities in the Western Pacific Region. This brain drain would adversely affect the safety of the flying public. Large numbers of Los Angeles employees may decline their administrative reassignments to Seattle. Yet, the FAA's announced policy is to treat a refusal to accept an administrative reassignment as a "separation." Hence, the planned restructure will have the same staff thinning effect as a reduction in force (RIF) but without the protections afforded by a RIF, especially priority consideration for other openings. A move to Seattle presents employees with the Hobson's choice of either losing careers or being torn from families and friends. The move would also place a disproportionately heavy burden on the backs of single parents who rely on family for child care. Racial and ethnic diversity existing in the current Western Pacific Regional Office will be lost if the Service Area Office is moved out of Los Angeles. The Western Pacific region has the highest percentage of minority employees of any region in the country. The Office Should Remain in Los Angeles If the three western regional offices were to be consolidated, Los Angeles is the superior location for the Western Service Area Office. LAX has Better Access to Major Airports: LAX offers vastly more domestic flights than SeaTac, the airport serving Seattle. In 2005, LAX offered 92,000 more domestic passenger flight departures than SeaTac and 11,000,000 more domestic departing seats. Los Angeles has Better Commute Times: According to U.S. Census Bureau data, the Los Angeles Regional Office in Hawthorne enjoys shorter commute times than Renton, the location of the Seattle Regional Office. Los Angeles has More Economical Employee Relocation Costs: Los Angeles is again the most cost-effective site. According to the ATO relocation study, based on permanent change of station (PCS) costs, "the most cost effective site for the restructuring of ATO Service Area Offices in the … Western Service Area [is] Los Angeles." The PCS cost associated with a Seattle move is $1,440,000 greater than Los Angeles. Los Angeles has More Available Office Space: The Los Angeles Regional Office can fully accommodate a transfer of operations to Los Angeles. In contrast, the Seattle office is so congested that FAA staff are housed outside of the Regional Office in outlying office buildings. Los Angeles has More Clement Weather: I am informed that the Seattle office was forced to close last winter because of icy conditions. Meanwhile, the Los Angeles Office was open for business. Climatic conditions have never been known to interfere with the operation of the Los Angeles Office. Los Angeles has Better Public Transportation: Los Angeles' public transportation surpasses Seattle's. Los Angeles has a subway system, which Seattle lacks. Los Angeles also has an extensive and growing light rail system. In fact, the Hawthorne office building is one block from a commuter rail station. Los Angeles has a Rich Cultural Life: When considering such factors as access to cultural life, the quality of museums, nearby local and natural parks, water views, city vibrancy, restaurants, sports and entertainment, Los Angeles stands out, rivaled only by such world cities as New York and London. The point, of course, is not that Seattle is not a nice place to live. The point is that Seattle is no place for an ATO Service Center serving Southern California and the Western Pacific States. Safety Southern California is among the world's busiest airspaces and serves more passengers than any other region in the United States. Southern California Terminal Radar Approach Control, which provides radar air traffic approach control services to all arriving and departing aircraft for most airports in Southern California, is the busiest approach control in the world. Phoenix, Las Vegas, Albuquerque, Oakland, and Southern California are among the fastest growing sites of air travel in the United States. All of these airspaces and facilities are currently served by the Los Angeles Regional Office. Under the proposed restructure, they would all be served from Seattle. In the years ahead, LAX is scheduled for major modernization and safety enhancements worth billions of dollars, programs with which the FAA will play a key role. An ATO Service Area Office needs to be close to Southern California Facilities to provide immediate and expert attention. A Service Area Office 1500 miles away will result in neglect of these huge and critical facilities. Experience tells us that facilities located near headquarters and regional offices receive better programs and quicker service than outlying facilities. Distancing the service operations away from Los Angeles is folly. When a controller in a tower flips a switch to turn on a radar, that radar had better turn on. If it doesn't, someone from the regional office had better respond quickly. Neither the controller, the pilot, nor the air passengers will find solace that a repair has been delayed because the closest Service Area Office is over 1500 miles away. Conclusion We all know that our nation's need for air travel will continue to grow in the coming decades. This growth in air traffic will require trained and experienced FAA employees. These employees will be able to provide the best possible service if they are located near important air travel hubs like LAX. Modernizing the FAA should not be done at the expense of FAA employees or those who depend on their services. If the Subcommittee believes that the FAA should invest more resources in modernizing facilities and equipment, then the Subcommittee should seek an increase in resources for the FAA. Cutting FAA administrative services in order to increase funding for modernization is robbing Peter to pay Paul. I urge the members of this subcommittee to support the existing nine regional offices of the ATO and exercise your oversight responsibilities to ensure that the FAA does not implement this reduction in force. I look forward to working with the Subcommittee on Aviation to ensure the continuing safety and efficiency of air travel at LAX and throughout the United States.
07.15.2009	I gave opening remarks at the U.S. Export-Import Bank (Ex-Im Bank) Seminar, "Extend Credit and Get Paid for Your Exports to Africa." Rep. Waters invited the Ex-Im Bank to Los Angeles to discuss business opportunities and, according to the Ex-Im Bank, "learn how Ex-Im Bank products can help them get working capital to finance export sales, protect against buyer nonpayment, and offer buyer financing for capital equipment and services." The seminar was hosted by the City of Inglewood and the U.S. Department of Commerce's Downtown Los Angeles Export Assistance Center. Rep. Waters made the following statement at the event: Good Morning. Ladies and Gentlemen, I want to thank the Mayor of the City of Inglewood, Roosevelt Dorn, and Bobby Hines, International Trade Specialist, of the Los Angeles Export Center of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the representatives form the U.S. Export-Import Bank for holding today's seminar "Extend Credit and Get Paid For Your Exports to Africa" in Inglewood, CA. I am thrilled that the Ex-Im Bank and the Department of Commerce chose to host today's event in Inglewood, CA. The City of Inglewood is a thriving part of the 35th Congressional District of California. Some 115, 208 persons live in the City of Inglewood; 47.1 percent are African American and 46.0 percent are Latino. At last count, there were 6552 businesses located in the City of Inglewood, a number that has surely grown since the 2000 Census. Minority owned firms represent 56.5 percent of the businesses, while women owned firms total 25.8 percent. Approximately 60 percent of the persons in the City are homeowners. So, not only is the City of Inglewood a place where business is taken seriously by the community, it is place to great place to live. Today's seminar is an opportunity for businesses in this and the surrounding communities that are engaged in exporting their goods to become familiar with ways to expand their business, particularly in Africa. California is one of the nation's leading exporters with some $116 billion in exports in 2005. California is one of four states, including Florida, New York and Texas, that represent 41 percent of the know U.S. export value in 2004. Not surprisingly, much of California's exports go to Mexico and Japan, and not to Africa. However, many of you know that African is a major priority of the Ex-Im Bank, the World Bank and the IMF. And, of course, the Gates Foundation has made health and education in Africa a top priority. So with the incredible amount of resources devoted to Africa, it only makes sense that business opportunities will follow and exports to Africa will increase. During the past several years I have worked closely with my colleagues on the Committee on Financial Services and the Subcommittee on Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology of which I am a Member to develop measures that promote U.S. exports to Africa and to increase the role of small minority and women owned business enterprises in Ex-Im Bank programs. In 2002, the Bank was required to expand its activities in Sub-Saharan Africa. Congress also required the Bank to establish an Advisory Committee on Sub-Saharan Africa. The Advisory Committee is made up of exporters and bankers with background and knowledge of the Region, and it is required to develop recommendations on the Bank activities in Sub-Saharan Africa. In 2003, the Commission on Capital Flows to Africa made a number of recommendations for increasing capital flows to Africa by the Ex-Im Bank, including allowing 20 year repayment terms for African countries, raising credit costs form 15% to 50 percent of the export value, and offering guarantees and loans in local currency. More recently, in May of 2006, the Committee on Financial Services passed, H.R.5068, legislation to reauthorize the Ex-Im Bank for five years. A major provision of the bill is the establishment of a Small Business Division within the Bank, which I strongly supported. It places responsibility for the management of the Small Business Division at the highest management levels of the Bank. This was something previously unheard of at the Bank. The bill also requires Ex-Im Bank to develop closer relationships with the African Development Bank, the Africa Export-Import Development, and other financial institutions to strengthen export programs to increase the flow of U.S. exports to Africa. I am very proud that the reauthorization bill includes two amendments that I authored. One amendment requires the Bank to study ways as to how the Bank can increase U.S. exports to new and emerging democracies, including Liberia and Haiti. Once that study is submitted to Congress it will provide a blueprint for action. Another amendment requires the Bank to develop performance measures for all Bank program activities related to small, minority and women owned businesses. In the past, the Bank has not aggressively promoted many of these businesses in its export activities. Indeed, later this year, when these measures become law we will have added incentives for increased participation of small, minority in women owned businesses in the Bank's export activities. In Fiscal Year 2005, Ex-Im issued $13.9 billion in financing – mostly guarantees and insurance of commercial loans. That financing supported $17.8 billion in U.S. exports. It is the U.S. exports that in turn help to support jobs in places like the City of Inglewood. In the same year, the Bank approved 3,100 separate credit authorizations. Of these, 2,600, or 84 percent were to support exports of by small and medium sized companies. My goal is to ensure that these opportunities to export are also shared equally by minority and women owned firms. Today's seminar is evidence of the priority that Ex-Im Bank has placed on small business and opportunities in Africa. I believe that we will witness an even more robust agenda related to small business and Africa over the next several years. Laying the foundation to do business and to expand business in Africa makes sense. Accessibility to Ex-Im Bank and the U.S. Department of Commerce, both repositories of a wealth information and expertise on exports, is one critical element to add to your business strategy to achieve business success. Ex-Im bank products are available in just about in country in Africa. Whether it is export credit insurance, buyer financing, used and refurbished equipment guarantee, aircraft finance, working capital guarantee, or project finance, each of these Ex-Im Bank products is designed to smooth the ride for U.S. exporters. You will have an opportunity to learn more about Ex-Im programs and the unique experience of the experts about how to best use these program to be successful in Africa. Although trade with Africa represents a fraction of our trade globally, that is certain to change. By participating in today's seminar you are giving yourselves a leg up on the competition, as well as to be part of the change. I thank you for participating in this very exciting event. Enjoy today's program. ###
07.15.2009	United States Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) yesterday issued the following letter to Marion Blakey, Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) calling for a halt to plans that would consolidate regional offices of the Air Traffic Organization in Anchorage, AK, Boston, MA, Chicago, IL, Kansas City, MO, Yew York, NY, and Los Angeles, CA. Twenty-three Members of Congress from the House and Senate signed the letter, the text of which is below: Marion C. Blakey, AdministratorFederal Aviation Administration800 Independence Avenue SW Washington, D.C., 20591 Re: ATO Reorganization of Service Area Offices Dear Administrator Blakey: We are writing to urge you to suspend the reduction in force planned for the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Air Traffic Organization (ATO) regional offices. It is imperative that the nation's air traffic move as safely and efficiently as possible, and we are willing to work with you to ensure that the FAA has the resources it needs for effective air traffic operations. We are greatly concerned, however, by the FAA's restructuring plan because it will reduce the number of personnel with technical expertise in air traffic operations at the FAA's regional offices in Anchorage, Boston, Chicago, Kansas City, New York and Los Angeles. We have recently obtained an August, 2005 Booz-Allen report, "ATO Structure and Process Evaluation--Final Report," which analyzes the restructuring plan's strategies and goals, and includes recommendations for its design and implementation. In our view, the report does not prove that the reduction in force will result in superior air service at less cost, which is the primary justification for the ATO restructuring initiative. Nor is it clear whether the FAA is adopting the report's recommendations. This issue demands a full and complete review before reductions in force should be considered. Therefore, in the interest of ensuring appropriate Congressional oversight, we request that you suspend the planned reduction in force at the ATO offices and brief our offices regarding the FAA's implementation of the Booz-Allen recommendations and the current state of the consolidation. We appreciate your attention to our concerns and look forward to your response. Sincerely, Rep. Maxine Waters; Sen. Richard Durbin; Rep. Jan Schakowsky; Sen. Edward M. Kennedy; Rep. Barney Frank; Sen. John F. Kerry; Rep. Jane Harman; Sen. Dianne Feinstein; Rep. Emanuel Cleaver; Sen. Barbara Boxer; Rep. Gregory W. Meeks; Sen. Barack Obama; Rep. John F. Tierney; Rep. Juanita Millender-McDonald; Rep. Alcee Hastings; Rep. Stephen Lynch; Rep. Diane Watson; Rep. Joe Baca; Rep. James P. McGovern; Rep. William Delahunt; Rep. Brad Sherman; Rep. Linda Sánchez; Rep. Dennis Moore; Rep. Xavier Becerra cc: The Honorable Maria Cino, Acting Secretary of Transportation ###
07.15.2009	United States Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today announced that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has awarded a total of $3,660,364 in federal grants to the Cities of Gardena and Hawthorne. The funds were awarded under the Community Development Block Grant Program and the HOME Program. "These grants will enable the Cities of Gardena and Hawthorne to make critical investments in infrastructure and help create livable communities," said Representative Waters. "The funding from the HOME program is an essential part of the effort to create and maintain safe, clean and affordable housing for the cities' residents." STATE GRANT TYPE CITY AMOUNT CA CDBG Gardena $957,692.00 CA CDBG Hawthorne $1,779,991.00 CA HOME Hawthorne $922,681.00 ABOUT THE GRANT PROGRAMS: The Community Development Block Grant program provides annual grants to States and local governments to develop viable urban communities by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment, and by expanding economic opportunities, principally for low-and moderate-income persons. The HOME program helps to expand the supply of decent, affordable housing to low- and very low-income families by providing grants to States and local governments to fund housing programs that meet local needs and priorities. ###
07.15.2009	Today, U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following letter to members of the LA County Board of Supervisors calling on them to do everything possible to keep King/Drew Hospital open and providing essential services to the people of South Los Angeles: Dear Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors: I am very disappointed that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), the federal agency responsible for oversight of hospital services, has failed the Martin Luther King Jr./Charles R. Drew Medical Center (KDMC) after identifying only nine deficiencies out of a possible twenty-three Medicare Conditions of Participation. It is unfathomable that after so much time, attention and work dedicated to the goal of improving KDMC that it would fail to pass the survey necessary to retain its federal funding. The community, organized under the "Save King Drew Coalition," has toiled diligently to support positive efforts to turn this institution around. We have held regular community meetings to get input from and to hear the concerns of the community and to interpret the actions of the Board of Supervisors and the motives of the LA Times. After encouraging the Board of Supervisors to hold a Beilenson Hearing, we organized over a thousand community residents to attend the hearing to have their voices heard. The Save King/Drew Coalition has consistently encouraged the Board of Supervisors to make the Medical Center a priority in the day-to-day operation of L.A. County's business. We have repeatedly asked for accountability in the decisions and changes made in delivering health services to the residents of L.A. County. Coalition members attended many meetings of the L.A. County Board of Supervisors and offered testimony, recommendations and support for improving KDMC. My office, in particular, has extended unwavering support and has volunteered to assist in any way possible to boost the morale of the staff and image of KDMC. Over the past four years, the County Board of Supervisors has carried out a variety of actions designed to strengthen the Medical Center: • Cascading staff in Spring of 2003 • Awarding a contract in excess of $1 million to the Camden Group address deficiencies in the nursing department • Conducting a Beilenson Public hearing on the proposed closure of the trauma center • Awarding a contract in excess of $13.2 million to Navigant Consulting to comply with the Memorandum of understanding with CMS and to attempt to retain accreditation with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) • Creating the KDMC Hospital Advisory Board (HAB) • Hiring a permanent C.E.O. to take responsibility for the overall improvement and well-being of the medical center Time and time again, we have been led to believe that improvements were taking place at Martin Luther King Jr. Hospital. L.A. County Service Planning Area (SPA) 6 encompasses neighborhoods where more than 1,058,022 people live, where 47.4% of the adults and almost 30% of the children are uninsured. It has the greatest health disparities in the county. SPA 6 residents suffer disproportionately from preventable diseases, such as AIDS, asthma, diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. The South Los Angeles community, as a part of SPA 6 – the least healthy SPA in the entire county - will not be deterred from insisting on access to quality health services at the KDMC site. We are asking the Board of Supervisors to immediately develop a cogent plan that is acceptable to CMS for the continued operation of health services at the KDMC location. The community does not manage hospitals, hire and fire staff nor does it determine the budget for Martin Luther King Jr. Hospital. However, we fully understand that the Board of Supervisors has the responsibility of managing all of L.A. County's health services, including all the public hospitals that serve the county's residents. We fully expect the Board to find an acceptable alternative for the management of Martin Luther King Jr. Hospital and to accomplish this within the allotted time given by the federal agency responsible for oversight, CMS. I look forward to working with you to find the correct alternative for maintaining complete and comprehensive health care services for the residents of South Los Angeles. Sincerely, Rep. Maxine Waters Member of Congress ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement today in response to the recommended plan that Dr. Bruce A. Chernof, Director and Chief Medical Officer for Los Angeles County Health Services, presented to the County Board of Supervisors on Tuesday to save King/Drew Hospital. The recommended plan provides preliminary suggestions that include bringing in Harbor UCLA Hospital to provide new management for King/Drew and to take over some of its services. The recommendation also calls for the relocation of a number of the King/Drew employees to other County hospitals. It also suggests that King/Drew maintain some of its core functions. Rep. Waters has endorsed the recommended plan presented by Dr. Chernof and said the following: "The L.A. County Board of Supervisors should be applauded for moving so quickly to prevent King/Drew Hospital from being closed. No one disputes the fact that there were deficiencies at the hospital, but now it's time to work together to support the leadership that has been demonstrated by the board as it remains focused on developing the details of a comprehensive, viable plan to keep King/Drew open." "Dr. Chernof's recommended plan would allow King/Drew to retain the ability to provide core services to the community like routine surgery, general medicine, and basic emergency room procedures. Other services would be transferred to Harbor UCLA. Some King/Drew employees will be sent to other county hospitals, and there would also be a reduction in the number of beds." "Monday night, I held a town hall meeting where the community overwhelmingly favored keeping King/Drew open. We left the meeting after reaching a consensus that we would work together to support the efforts being made by the board and then to do whatever is necessary to keep this process on the right track and moving forward. And the board is on the right track." "Although the Commission on Medicare and Medicaid Services' decision to terminate funding for King/Drew has presented us with a difficult challenge, I am encouraged by Dr. Chernof's recommended plan. He appears to have taken the Commission's comments into consideration and has provided a framework that it can potentially accept." "Ultimately, King/Drew must remain open, and I will work with the community to support every effort the Board of Supervisors makes toward this goal and toward eventually restoring full, comprehensive services at the hospital, which must include a fully functional trauma center." ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) was named a recipient of the Cal State Northridge (CSUN) "Phenomenal Woman" award for 2006. The awards ceremony, which took place Saturday, October 7, 2006, honors California women who embody "Feminism in action" by helping to build a more just and equitable society, the award was established by the CSUN Women's Studies Department, and this is the seventh year the award has been presented to women who have made outstanding contributions to California communities. "This award speaks to the infinite power women can achieve when we work together and support one another," said Rep. Waters. "I dedicate this award to all of the women who kicked open doors before me, to all of the women who are kicking doors open for future generations, and to all of the women who will continue kicking open doors until there are no longer any barriers standing between women and total equality." In addition to Rep. Waters, the other women who received the "Phenomenal Woman" award this year were Tina Allen, a visual artist; Elizabeth Berry, a Professor and Founder of the CSUN Women's Studies Department; Patt Morrison, a writer, journalist, and talk show host; and Angela Sanbrano, Executive Director of the Central American Resource Center (CARECEN). The CSUN Women's Studies Department emphasizes interdisciplinary, cross-cultural and transnational studies that focus on gender. Its curriculum includes course work in feminist theory; women and social movements; transnational, women of color, queer and postcolonial feminism; women's economic conditions in the global context; productions of women in media and literature; women's health; and masculinity studies. For more information, please visit: https://www.csun.edu/~ws20500/PhenomenalWomen/PW2006-index.html ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today presented the following letter to the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors at a hearing to discuss the future of Martin Luther King hospital: October 17, 2006 Bruce Chernof, MD Director & Chief Medical Officer Los Angeles County Health Services 300 S. Figueroa – 9th Floor Los Angeles, CA 90012 Dear Dr. Chernof: Thank you for discussing with us some of the key issues in the proposed MetroCare plan that you have presented to the Los Angeles Board of Supervisors today. We are very much aware of the difficulties that putting together a comprehensive plan to keep Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital (MLK or "the hospital") open has presented. Furthermore, we understand that, in order to be approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), this plan must demonstrate a radical re-organization of the management structure of the hospital. We are very concerned about the short deadline set by CMS for the submission of a plan that would allow it to consider continuing the funding which is now in jeopardy. The community is supportive of the framework for the re-organization of MLK that you presented at the October 3rd meeting of the L. A. County Board of Supervisors. This framework described a plan that would keep MLK open and transfer its management to Harbor/UCLA. We eagerly awaited the substantive MetroCare plan that was presented here today. In our last conversation, you indicated that the following core services would continue at MLK: Emergency Medical Services§ General Surgery§ General Medicine§ Outpatient and Inpatient Diabetes§ Cancer Treatment§ Asthma Treatment§ Preventative Heart Disease§ Stroke Prevention and Treatment§ Gynecology§ High Blood Pressure and Cholesterol Management and Treatment§ Psychiatric Services for adults and youth§ Following your presentation today, we will have an opportunity to revisit and analyze the proposed changes in core services at MLK so that we can ensure that services that are drastically needed are included in the final plan. We fully agree that the above listed core services should be retained at MLK. In particular, we stress the importance of retaining geriatric, obstetric, pediatric ICU, and neonatal services at MLK. Although it has been reported that the number of live-birth deliveries that have occurred at the hospital on a daily basis have declined and may not justify the continuation of obstetrics at the hospital, we believe the bad publicity given to the hospital over the past 2 ½ years by The Los Angeles Times has contributed to this reduction in deliveries. Nevertheless, we expect a substantial rise in the number of babies delivered at MLK as its reputation is restored. There has been considerable discussion in the community about the proposed name change for the hospital. We are indeed supportive of maintaining MLK as a public county facility, and we are very appreciative that the plan does not call for its privatization. While we understand that Harbor will undertake the management of the hospital, it is important to avoid consideration of a new name that would diminish the significance of Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital and its historical background. The hospital was named for one of the world's greatest civil rights leaders. "Martin Luther King, Jr." connotes the Civil Rights movement and inspires hope and possibility, and we must do nothing to dim the lights of hope and possibility. Therefore, the name of Martin Luther King, Jr. must not be preceded by "Harbor." If the name "Harbor" is required to signify radical change for purpose of the new application to CMS, then the name should rather become "Martin Luther King, Jr. – Harbor Hospital" or the like. There has already been some discussion in the press about calling the new facility "Harbor - Martin Luther King, Jr.," and we would hope this does not become a divisive issue that will derail community support that we have forged in order to keep the doors of the hospital open. On the practical side of this issue, we would not want patients seeking services and information about the hospital to be misled or fail to locate the hospital when making inquiries simply because they did not know to use "Harbor" instead of Martin Luther King, Jr. in conducting their search. As you know, the closure of MLK has been rumored for some time now, and members of the community are extremely unsettled about the future of MLK. They believe that it has been on the verge of closure for quite awhile. There is much discussion in the community about whether MLK will ever be returned to a fully-service hospital or whether the proposal is the beginning of the end. We have assured the community that this is an interim solution to overcoming the deficiencies that have been identified by CMS and that the goal of the L. A. County Department of Health Services (DHS) is to eventually restore MLK to a full service hospital. Therefore, it is extremely important that the transition be done in a seamless manner. The hospital must not close at any time. Closure for any period of time will send the wrong signal to the community. It will fuel rumors, send false alarms, and cause continued speculation about closing the facility. This letter serves to underscore the immediate crisis that this transition must be done in a relatively short period of time. However, we recognize that much work must be done to address both the immediate and the long-term planning for MLK, and we look forward to working with you to achieve this. We further recognize the need to support a request for an extension of time from CMS, which was initiated in the U.S. Congress, and funding for this transition. To that end, we understand that the date for the Beilenson Hearing, a State-mandated hearing to determine the impact of this transition on the community, has been set for Monday, November 6th. The undersigned parties are hopeful that the your work to develop a final list of core services for the facility will take into consideration those services that are most needed and that you will also address the transportation needs of the community that will now be required to travel an additional 11 miles to obtain the health services that were provided at MLK. Reasonably articulated goals and timelines will be necessary parts of the final plan so that the community may have reasonable expectations about the length of time it will take to restore MLK to an independent medical center under the L. A. County Department of Health Services. There is concern about rumors that there is some unwillingness by Harbor/UCLA to take on this new management and there may be some resistance to assuming these expanded responsibilities. We would like DHS to anticipate these kinds of problems which may cause residents of the MLK service area to feel unwelcome and/or unwanted at Harbor/UCLA and thus create problems that could have been avoided with advance planning and training. We are very pleased that the community is showing tremendous understanding and cooperation to assist in making this task less difficult. It is imperative that you work with the community to avoid misunderstanding and miscommunication and that you involve the community in decisions about all the services, funding, and overall access to quality healthcare proposed. We thank you for the tremendous effort that is being undertaken by you, DHS, and the Board of Supervisors. It is imperative that we continue to move forward and demonstrate our collective ability to take giant steps, even painful ones, to keep the doors of Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital open and continue providing core services for the residents of our community as well as expanded services at Harbor/UCLA. Sincerely, Congresswoman Maxine Waters Tim Watkins Save King Drew Coalition Watts Labor Community Action Committee ATTACHMENT: Elected Officials, Community Leaders and Supporters in attendance at the 500 plus broad based community meeting held October 2, 2006, 6pm, at WLCAC. Lillian Mobley Rev. Jesse Jackson South Central Multipurpose Rainbow/PUSH Coalition Senior Citizen Center Geraldine Washington Rev. Eric Lee NAACP – Los Angeles Branch Southern Christian Leadership Conference Congresswoman Diane Watson Phil Angelides Member of Congress (CA-33) California State Treasurer Mervyn Dymally Jan Perry Assemblyman 52nd District Councilwoman 9th CD Janice Hahn Roosevelt Dorn Councilwoman 15th CD Mayor – City of Inglewood Larry Guidi Paul Tanaka Mayor – City of Hawthorne Mayor – City of Gardena Harold Hoffman Curren Price Councilman – City of Inglewood Mayor – City of Lawndale Isadore Hall Sandra Davis Councilman – City of Compton Board President Culver City Unified School District Mae Thomas Mike Davis Board Member Democratic Assembly Elect – 48th District Compton Unified School District Greg Brown Rev. Reginald Pope Watts Neighborhood Council Bethel Missionary Baptist Church Rev. Robert Mason Dr. Janet Clark Macedonia Baptist Church Maxine Waters Employment Preparation Center Dr. Ernie Smith Jeannie Washington Black Community Health Task Black Women's Forum Force ###
07.15.2009	U.S. Representative Maxine Waters (CA-35) today held a press conference to announce the details of a 90-day extension granted to Martin Luther King (MLK) Hospital by the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Services (CMS). The extension will give Los Angeles County officials additional time to implement the MetroCare plan, which primarily will reduce the services provided at MLK and restructure the Hospital under the management of Harbor UCLA Medical Center. "The 90-day extension is a sign of hope for people in the community," said Rep. Waters. "It demonstrates that CMS has a clear understanding of exactly how important Martin Luther King Hospital is to the people of South Los Angeles. There needs to be a health care facility in the area with the ability to provide essential services for one of Los Angeles County's most medically-underserved areas." On September 27, 2006, three days after CMS announced that it would be revoking $200 million in federal funds from MLK Hospital, Rep. Waters collected 21 signatures from members of the California Congressional delegation on a letter requesting the 90-day extension. The letter stated that the members, "respectfully request that you extend the effective date of termination by 90 days." It goes on to say that, "The decision to discontinue federal payments to King/Drew is a substantially painful blow to the South Los Angeles community." Rep. Waters added, "I am confident that Dr. Chernoff and the L.A. County Board of Supervisors will take full advantage of this additional time and continue to move swiftly and deliberately to fine tune the MetroCare plan. They understand the destructive impact closing MLK could have on South Los Angeles neighborhoods, and I have faith that they will use this breather to seamlessly implement a plan that will keep the doors at MLK open." The neighborhoods served by MLK are part of the L.A. County Service Planning Area (SPA) 6—the least healthy SPA in the entire county—and home to more than 1,058,022 people who suffer disproportionately from preventable diseases, such as AIDS, asthma, diabetes, hypertension and heart disease. In addition to having the greatest health disparities in the county, 47.4% of the adults and almost 30% of the children in SPA 6 are uninsured. The community depends on MLK for vital services, and closing the hospital would put millions of people at risk and not just the residents of South Los Angeles who would be forced to travel miles for medical care. It would also impact Los Angeles residents in surrounding areas whose hospitals and medical facilities would have to absorb the overflow from a closed MLK hospital. Faced with the reality that MLK did not meet the necessary standards during the last survey, the community has rallied behind the swift and decisive actions taken by the Board of Supervisors. Everyone has been working tirelessly to implement the radical changes in management required by CMS to consider restoring the $200 million life line of federal funding. "Without question, there were issues at MLK that needed to be addressed for the sake of the South Los Angeles residents who depend on the hospital for essential medical services," Rep. Waters continued. "The community has been overwhelmingly supportive of efforts to reform MLK and to keep it open because they genuinely understand what will be lost if the hospital is closed—an option many of us are not willing to entertain. Rep. Waters has consistently tried to remind the public that if MLK were shut down, the areas served by the hospital would be under circumstances almost identical to those which led to the establishment of the hospital more than 40 years ago. The McComb Commission report, "Violence in the City: An End or a Beginning? A Report by the Governor's Commission on the California Riots," published December 2, 1965 detailed those conditions and the factors that contributed to the Los Angeles-Watts riots. It also recommended ways to alleviate the desperate conditions that fueled that explosive event. For example, the report stated: Statistics indicate that health conditions of the residents of south central Los Angeles are relatively poor and facilities to provide medical care are insufficient. At the time, the Commission also reported: The two large public hospitals, County General and Harbor General, are both distant and difficult to reach. The Commission recognizes that the motivation of patients to take advantage of the available medical facilities is an important factor in health conditions but it appears that the facilities in the area are not even sufficient to care for those who now seek medical attention." Finally, and perhaps the part of the report most relevant to the decisions currently being made about MLK read: We also believe that the Los Angeles County Health Department should increase the number and services of public health and preventive medical facilities in the area and that similar program improvement should be undertaken by the Los Angeles County Department of Mental Health, the Visiting Nurse Association of Los Angeles, and other voluntary health agencies. Finally, Rep. Waters added, "Although the community would prefer to maintain a full-service hospital that includes an operational trauma center, we have accepted the proposed reduction in services at MLK for the sake of retaining its presence, and a number of core services are the most critical issue on the table. Please remember that this hospital symbolizes hope, opportunity and the fulfillment of a promise. It is essential that everyone involved continue to work toward building the unity needed to retain the hospital in our community with the expectation that it eventually be restored to a fully comprehensive medical center." ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), held the first in a series of Town Hall meetings this past Saturday, with residents of her district, to discuss the first 100 hours of legislation in accordance with the 110th Congressional Democratic agenda. Gathering during the day at both Los Angeles Southwest College in South LA and First Church of God in Inglewood, constituents had the opportunity to hear and respond to major issues regarding the war in Iraq as well as discussion of the democratic caucus agenda and legislation recently introduced by Congresswoman Waters such as: H.R. 647, The Mark-to-Market Extension Act, which will provide the opportunity for project owners across the country to restructure their loans consistent with market conditions and H.R. 822, The Routine HIV/AIDS Screening Coverage Act, which will require health insurance plans to cover routine HIV tests under the same terms and conditions as other routine health screenings. "These Town Hall meetings are a wonderful way for us to interact with our constituents in a forum, to share the legislative issues in which we are involved in Washington, D.C. as well as the work we are doing in the community," said Congresswoman Waters. Recently elected to serve as Chairwoman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, Congresswoman Waters expressed her passion and accountability for developing a housing agenda related to the affordable housing and community development needs of low and moderate income, the elderly and disabled communities in America. "I will also serve on the Subcommittees on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit; Domestic and International Monetary Policy, Trade, and Technology; and Oversight and Investigations of the Financial Services Committee," explained Congresswoman Waters. "Each of these Subcommittees are involved in issues of major importance to the citizens of this District." In addition, she will also continue her service on the Judiciary Committee and will sit on the Subcommittees on Crime, Terrorism, and Homeland Security; and Immigration, Citizenship, Refugees, Border Security, and International Law. Congresswoman Waters was also appointed to serve as Chief Deputy Whip by Speaker Nancy Pelosi. Future Town Hall Meetings for the 35th Congressional District are scheduled as follows: Saturday, March 3, 2007 10:00 am Barry White (South Park) Recreation Center, Los Angeles, CA 2:00 pm Loyola Marymount University (Ahmanson Auditorium) Saturday, March 10, 2007 10:00 am Ken Nakaoka Community Center, Gardena, CA 2:00 pm Del Air Assembly of God, Hawthorne, CA Legislation Passed in the First 100 Hours H.R. 1 - Implementing 9/11 Commission's Recommendations In 2004, the 9/11 Commission submitted 41 recommendations to the Administration and Congress on improving homeland security, preventing terrorists from acquiring Weapons of Mass Destruction, and developing strategies for preventing the spread of Islamic terrorism. The bill's provisions include requiring major improvements in aviation security, border security, and infrastructure security; providing first responders the equipment and training they need; beefing up efforts to prevent terrorists from acquiring weapons of mass destruction; and significantly expanding diplomatic, economic, educational, and other strategies designed to counter Islamic terrorism. H.R. 2 - Raising the Minimum Wage This bill increases the minimum wage from $5.15 to $7.25 an hour over two years. Increasing the minimum wage to $7.25 per hour would bring a pay raise for up to 13 million Americans. H.R. 3 - Promoting Life-Saving Stem Cell Research This bill increases the number of lines of stem cells that are eligible to be used in federally-funded research. It authorizes Health and Human Services (HHS) to support research involving embryonic stem cells, which have the potential to unlock the doors to treatments and cures to numerous diseases, including diabetes, Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's, ALS, multiple sclerosis, and cancer. H.R. 4 - Requiring Medicare to Negotiate Lower Prescription Drug Prices This bill repeals the current provision that prohibits the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS) from negotiating with drug companies for lower prices for those enrolled in Medicare prescription drug plans and instead requires the Secretary to conduct such negotiations. H.R. 5 - Cutting Interest Rates on Student Loans This bill makes college more accessible and affordable by cutting the interest rates on subsidized student loans in half – from the current 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent. This significantly cuts the student debt burden of about 5 million students. H.R. 6 - Repealing Big Oil Subsidies/Investing in Renewable Fuels This bill invests in clean, renewable energy and energy efficiency by repealing billions in subsidies given to big oil companies that are raking in record profits. It also closes loopholes and ends giveaways in the tax code for Big Oil. Finally, the bill creates a Strategic Renewable Energy Reserve to invest in clean, renewable energy resources, promoting new emerging technologies, developing greater efficiency and improving energy conservation. ###
07.15.2009	Last night, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) introduced H.R. 2872, the LAX Community Safety Act. This legislation would prevent Runway 24R, the northernmost runway at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), from being relocated farther to the north. Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA), which operates LAX, has proposed relocating Runway 24R at least 340 feet north of its current location, bringing it closer to the residential communities north of LAX. "Relocating LAX's northernmost runway farther to the north would increase noise, air pollution, and other environmental impacts on residents, schools, churches, and businesses in the communities to the north and east of LAX," said Congresswoman Waters. "LAX operations already cause tremendous noise and air pollution for the communities of Westchester and Playa del Rey, which lie along the north side of LAX, and the City of Inglewood and the communities of Vermont Knolls and South Los Angeles, which lie to the east of LAX underneath the arrival flight path. Relocating Runway 24R closer to Westchester will exacerbate these impacts," said the Congresswoman. LAX has two pairs of parallel runways: the North Runways, located north of the main terminals, and the South Runways, located south of the main terminals. Runway 24R is the northernmost of the two North Runways. LAWA argues that relocating Runway 24R farther to the north would reduce runway incursions and improve safety. However, historically, approximately 80% of runway incursions at LAX have occurred on the South Runways, while only 20% have occurred on the North Runways. The rate of incursions on the North Runways is comparable to or lower than other busy commercial U.S. airports. "Relocating Runway 24R farther to the north would bring the risk of an aircraft accident closer to homes, schools, churches, and businesses in Westchester and Playa del Rey and, consequently, reduce safety for people who live and work in these communities," said the Congresswoman. "Relocating Runway 24R farther to the north would not have a significant impact on runway incursions at LAX, but it would have a devastating impact on the families that live near the airport," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.15.2009	Today on Capitol Hill, the House Transportation Committee passed the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Reauthorization bill, which included legislation introduced jointly by Congresswoman Maxine Waters and Congresswoman Jane Harman to facilitate noise mitigation in Inglewood and Lennox schools. The FAA bill is expected to come before the full House of Representatives in July. "I am delighted that the Transportation Committee accepted our bill to facilitate noise mitigation in Inglewood and Lennox schools," said Congresswoman Waters. The FAA bill includes the text of H.R. 1708, a bill introduced by the two Los Angeles-area Congresswomen to permit the release of $110 million in funds to the Inglewood and Lennox School Districts to help reduce noise from overhead aircraft originating at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). "Airplanes flying into and out of LAX cause tremendous noise for children in Inglewood, as well as other residents of my district. This legislation will make it easier for children to study in school without the constant interruption of airplanes overhead," said Congresswoman Waters. Another LAX-related bill introduced by Congresswoman Waters, H.R. 2872, the LAX Community Safety Act, was not included in the FAA bill when it passed the Transportation Committee but may be added next month when the FAA bill comes before the full House of Representatives. H.R. 2872 would prevent the northernmost runway at LAX from being moved further north, which would bring the runway closer to the communities of Westchester and Playa del Rey and exacerbate airport noise in these communities. "I will continue my efforts to protect all of the people of my district from airport noise as the FAA bill continues to move through the House of Representatives," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.15.2009	Today, the U.S. House of Representatives passed an amendment by Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) to prohibit consolidation of the regional offices of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) without oversight. The amendment was offered with the assistance of her colleague, Congressman Alcee Hastings (FL-23). The amendment was incorporated into the FAA Reauthorization Act, which then passed the House of Representatives and is now awaiting consideration in the U.S. Senate. "I am pleased that my colleagues supported my amendment to require the FAA to obtain congressional oversight and public comment prior to consolidating services in its regional offices," said Congresswoman Waters. The FAA has nine regional offices serving airports in all fifty states. One of these offices, the Western-Pacific Regional Office, is located in Hawthorne, California, in Congresswoman Waters' congressional district. This office serves all of Southern California, including Los Angeles International Airport (LAX), one of the busiest airports in the world. "The FAA has consolidated services in the regional offices twice over the last two years. The FAA did not seek or accept input from Congress, regional office employees, or the affected communities prior to reorganizing these offices and transferring employees from the Hawthorne office to offices in other parts of the country," said the Congresswoman. Last year, the FAA consolidated administrative and technical support services in the regional offices. FAA employees in the Hawthorne office were transferred to an FAA office in Seattle. The previous year, the FAA relocated financial accounting services from the Hawthorne office to Oklahoma City. The FAA is reportedly considering plans to consolidate the engineering services in the regional offices. These plans probably would involve the transfer of experienced engineers from the Hawthorne office to Seattle. "Engineering services are critical for the safe operation of air traffic control towers, and engineers should not be transferred outside of the Los Angeles area without congressional oversight and input from the public," said the Congresswoman. ###
07.15.2009	Today, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-CA) sent a letter to Mr. Robert A. Sturgell, the Acting Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), urging him to suspend all plans to consolidate the engineering services at the FAA's regional offices. The letter was signed by 4 members of the United States Senate and 31 members of the House of Representatives. The FAA has nine regional offices, including one in Los Angeles, which serve airports and air travelers nationwide. The text of the letter follows: It has come to our attention that the Federal Aviation Administration may be considering plans to consolidate the engineering services at the FAA's nine regional offices and eliminate the engineering services at several of these offices. We share your commitment to ensure the safety and efficiency of air travel throughout the United States. However, we are concerned that the FAA's consolidation plans would compromise air travel safety and reduce the efficiency of the services performed by the regional offices. The consolidation of engineering services at the FAA's regional offices presumably would reduce or eliminate positions for experienced engineers at the regional offices in Anchorage, Burlington/Nashua, Chicago, Kansas City, New York and Los Angeles. This would compromise the safety of air travel in the regions of the United States served by these offices. Safe and efficient air travel requires engineering and support services that are accessible and convenient for the airports and air travelers that rely on them. We are concerned that this consolidation may be a step toward the closure of several of the FAA's regional offices. The pending consolidation would be the latest of several administrative actions to reduce personnel in the regional offices. Last year, the FAA consolidated the Air Traffic Organization's administrative and technical support services. The previous year, the FAA consolidated financial accounting services at the regional offices. Consolidation of the engineering services would fit into a clear pattern that suggests plans to consolidate the FAA's nine regional offices into three offices, which would then be expected to serve all fifty states. H.R. 2881, the FAA Reauthorization Act, as passed by the House of Representatives on September 20, includes language (Section 807) to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a working group on FAA consolidation. This working group would review proposals to consolidate FAA facilities and services, obtain input from affected stakeholders and comments from the public, and make recommendations to Congress. The FAA would not be allowed to consolidate any of its facilities or services, including the regional offices, until Congress has had an opportunity to consider the working group's recommendations. The FAA Reauthorization Act is awaiting action in the Senate and could be signed into law this year. In the meantime, the FAA should not move forward with plans to consolidate the regional offices without Congressional consultation and oversight. Therefore, we recommend that you suspend all plans to consolidate the FAA's engineering services and consult with Members of Congress regarding the future of the FAA's regional offices and the services performed by these offices. We appreciate your attention to our concerns. We look forward to working with you to ensure that the FAA's regional offices are able to provide safe and efficient services to the American people. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Barack Obama Paul Hodes Edward M. Kennedy Gary L. Ackerman John F. Kerry Barney Frank Barbara Boxer Adam B. Schiff Janice Schakowsky James P. McGovern Michael A. Arcuri Mark Steven Kirk Xavier Becerra Edward Markey Laura Richardson John F. Tierney Gregory W. Meeks John M. McHugh Alcee Hastings Jane Harman Bob Filner William D. Delahunt Ed Pastor Nancy Boyda Dan Lipinski Dennis Moore Michael E. Capuano Joe Baca Linda T. Sánchez Grace Napolitano John Lewis Phil Hare Emanuel Cleaver Rahm Emanuel ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) called for a federal investigation of the Inglewood Police Department following the fatal shootings of three people within a three month period by members of the police department, including two by the same officer. Congresswoman Waters, joined by other community leaders for a press conference outside Inglewood City Hall, announced that she has written a letter to U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey formally requesting that the U.S. Department of Justice and its Civil Rights Division investigate allegations of police misconduct and determine whether the Inglewood Police Department has engaged in a pattern and practice of discrimination or violated federal civil rights or criminal law. "These recent tragedies are a cause of great concern. Police officers are sworn to protect and serve, but unfortunately many community residents have lost confidence in the Inglewood Police Department and instead of trusting the police they are fearful. We need to have a thorough outside investigation to understand what is happening and to take the appropriate steps to correct the situation," Congresswoman Waters said. The three recent fatal shootings are the latest alarming incidents involving the Inglewood Police Department, which has previously faced allegations of abuse and harassment. Congresswoman Waters and fellow members of the Congressional Black Caucus held a community forum in Inglewood in 2002 following a widely publicized beating of a teenager by officers from the Inglewood Police Department. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (D-CA) announced the successful passage today of legislation that she and Congresswoman Jane Harman (D-CA) introduced to provide funding for noise mitigation projects at schools in Inglewood and Lennox where students and teachers have complained of disruptive noise from airplanes arriving at and departing from nearby Los Angeles International Airport (LAX). The legislation passed by the House of Representatives today permits Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) to use airport passenger facility fees to fund $118.5 million for noise mitigation projects in the Inglewood School District over 10 years and $111 million for the Lennox School District. Congresswoman Waters whose district includes Inglewood and Congresswoman Harman who represents Lennox introduced H.R. 1708 and worked to gain support in the House to pass the legislation. The Senate had passed S. 996, a companion bill championed by Senators Dianne Feinstein (D-CA) and Barbara Boxer (D-CA), earlier this year. "The passage of this legislation is an important victory for our schoolchildren in Inglewood and Lennox," said Congresswoman Waters. "The school districts are ready to begin construction on new facilities and now they will have the funding they need to build permanent, soundproof facilities as well as help soundproof existing schools. Inglewood students will benefit from studying in a quiet and calm environment instead of classrooms with deafening noise and rattling windows." The legislation was drafted with assistance from the Federal Aviation Administration and had the support of LAWA, the Inglewood and Lennox School Districts and Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa. "I commend Senators Feinstein and Boxer for their work on this legislation, and I thank Congresswoman Harman for her tireless efforts to improve California communities," Congresswoman Waters added. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) was sworn in today as a member of the United States House of Representatives as the 111th Congress started. First elected to Congress in 1990, Rep. Waters is now beginning her 10th term. She represents the 35th District of California, comprised of a large part of South Central Los Angeles, the communities of Westchester and Playa Del Rey as well as the diverse cities of Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood and Lawndale. "I'm honored to continue to represent the people of the 35th District, and I'm eager to begin this new session of Congress so we can address the challenges our communities and our nation face. We have to take steps to revitalize our economy, create jobs, expand access to affordable health care for all Americans, invest in education, move towards energy independence, reduce poverty, and bring our troops home from Iraq. I look forward to working with my colleagues in the House and Senate and in partnership with President Barack Obama on this agenda." Congresswoman Waters, the Chairwoman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity, has made foreclosure prevention a top priority, and today she picked up where she left off at the end of the 110th Congress, reintroducing her legislation to reduce and prevent foreclosures by implementing a comprehensive program to modify loans for homeowners at risk of losing their homes. "The housing market crisis is at the very heart of our nation's economic struggles. A systematic approach to loan modifications will help keep millions of families in their homes," she said. In addition to her official swearing-in, Congresswoman Waters participated in the swearing-in ceremony for members of the Congressional Black Caucus (CBC). Founded 40 years ago, the CBC currently has 41 members. Congresswoman Waters served as CBC Chairwoman during the 104th Congress, and she remains an active leader within the CBC. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has approved a plan from the City of Los Angeles to help homeowners and stabilize neighborhoods suffering from the effects of high foreclosure rates and declining home values. Los Angeles will receive $32.8 million in funds from the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) to help acquire and redevelop foreclosed properties in targeted neighborhoods. "As Congress developed our response to the subprime mortgage crisis and took steps to strengthen the housing market, I emphasized the importance of neighborhood stabilization. I have seen the consequences of clusters of foreclosed properties driving down home values, increasing crime and adding to blight in affected neighborhoods, so I fought hard to make sure the legislation we passed included neighborhood stabilization funding. I have spoken with Mercedes Marquez, General Manager of the Los Angeles Housing Department, and I believe she has developed an excellent plan for utilizing NSP funds to help our communities," said Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. Congresswoman Waters worked with leaders in Congress to secure neighborhood stabilization funding for Los Angeles and other communities. She introduced the Neighborhood Stabilization Act (H.R. 5818) last year to authorize a federal grant and loan program to help cities, counties and states purchase, rehabilitate and resell or rent foreclosed homes and in turn create rental and ownership opportunities for low- and moderate-income families. In addition, she was the leading advocate in Congress for neighborhood stabilization funding and succeeded in gaining Congressional approval for $4 billion for this purpose. Congresswoman Waters insisted this funding be included in legislation despite a threat by President Bush to veto it. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced today that the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has approved a plan from the County of Los Angeles to help homeowners and stabilize neighborhoods suffering from the effects of high foreclosure rates and declining home values. The County of Los Angeles will receive $16.8 million in funds from the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP) to help acquire and redevelop foreclosed properties in targeted neighborhoods. Congresswoman Waters announced earlier this month that the City of Los Angeles will receive $32.8 million in funds for similar purposes. "I have worked hard to make sure that Congress provides help for homeowners. Much of the response to the nation's economic crisis has focused on bailing out banks and corporations, but I have emphasized the need to provide help for our neighborhoods and communities where foreclosed properties have caused home values to fall further and diminished the quality of life for residents. The Neighborhood Stabilization Program funding that Los Angeles receives will make a real difference," said Congresswoman Waters, who chairs the Financial Services Subcommittee on Housing and Community Opportunity. Congresswoman Waters worked with leaders in Congress to secure neighborhood stabilization funding for Los Angeles and other communities. She introduced the Neighborhood Stabilization Act (H.R. 5818) last year to authorize a federal grant and loan program to help cities, counties and states purchase, rehabilitate and resell or rent foreclosed homes and in turn create rental and ownership opportunities for low- and moderate-income families. In addition, she was the leading advocate in Congress for neighborhood stabilization funding and succeeded in gaining Congressional approval for $4 billion for this purpose. Congresswoman Waters insisted this funding be included in legislation despite a threat by President Bush to veto it. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) today hosted an economic recovery roundtable with mayors from Gardena, Hawthorne, Inglewood and Lawndale to focus attention on the potential impact of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (H.R. 1) on communities, families and businesses within the 35th Congressional District. Congresswoman Waters joined a majority in the House of Representatives voting in support of the legislation, which President Obama called vital to create and save 3.5 million American jobs. Congress passed the bill last week, and the President signed it into law on Tuesday. "The economic recovery package that we passed will put people back to work, stimulate our economy, rebuild our infrastructure and invest in our long-term growth through education, innovation and clean energy. In addition, we are giving immediate help to those most in need by extending unemployment benefits, offering training opportunities for good jobs, and providing food stamps for families. President Obama and Congress got this major job creation package done just three weeks after his inauguration because we recognize the importance of taking bold and quick action to put our nation on the road to recovery," Congresswoman Waters said. "This legislation also includes one of the largest tax cuts in history. This is a progressive tax cut targeted at middle class and working families, and it benefits 95% of American workers," she said. Congresswoman Waters emphasized that the recovery package will make a big difference locally. "I invited the mayors to discuss the priorities of our communities and what projects are ready to benefit as federal dollars from the stimulus bill go to work in our district. I am going to be working closely with leaders throughout the 35th Congressional District to make sure that eligible entities know about the funding they can apply for and to make sure that my constituents can utilize all the resources in this bill," she said. Congresswoman Waters said, "This legislation will create or save 7,300 jobs here in the 35th Congressional District and almost 400,000 jobs in the entire state over the next two years according to the White House. At a time when unemployment here in California has climbed to 9.3% -- among the highest rates in the nation – and a staggering 3.6 million American jobs were lost in the last 13 months, this recovery package is urgently needed." The stimulus package will infuse tens of billions of dollars into California and save nearly 400,000 jobs in the state according to the White House. Of the total $787 billion in federal funding, Senator Barbara Boxer estimates that California will receive at least $78 billion of stimulus over the next two years. Precise numbers are difficult to determine now because the funds will be distributed partly by formulas to states and cities and partly through competitive evaluation. However, the public will be able to monitor how funds are spent at a new web site www.recovery.gov. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act was designed with the following objectives: · Providing a Making Work Pay tax cut of up to $800 for 12,420,000 California workers and their families, designed to start paying out immediately into workers' paychecks, as well as tax cuts to spur businesses large and small; · Transforming our economy with clean, efficient, American energy and innovation and technology that will create more than 1 million jobs nationwide; · Lowering healthcare costs and improving care by computerizing medical records, which will create hundreds of thousands of jobs, and helping those who cannot afford health care in these tough times; · Modernizing roads and bridges to create jobs with an extra $2,569,568,320 here in California along with other critical infrastructure like high-speed rail, the boldest investment since the creation of the interstate highway system a half century ago; · Promoting education for the 21st Century, modernizing schools and making college more affordable with improved Pell Grants for the 744,236 Pell Grant recipient here in California and a higher education tax credit for 522,000 students in our state; · Helping workers hurt by the economy, including 1,731,800 Californians that are out of work, those who have lost their health care, and seniors; and · Saving the jobs of teachers, police officers, health care workers, and protecting the vital services they provide. "It will take time to turn this economy around, but I am confident that this package will make our economy stronger and more resilient," said Congresswoman Waters. "Americans have always come together in the face of challenges and we will once again with the swift and bold leadership of President Obama." ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) issued the following statement today following the announcement that the U.S. Department of Justice has started an investigation of the Inglewood Police Department as she previously requested: Today we learned that the Department of Justice has instituted an investigation of the practices of the Inglewood Police Department. I am very pleased that possible police misconduct is finally being investigated. I have been extremely concerned about the alarming number of police-involved shootings in Inglewood that resulted in the 2008 deaths of Mr. Michael Byoune on Mother's Day, Mr. Kevin Wicks on July 21st, and Mr. Eddie Felix Franco on August 31st . I submitted three written requests to the former U.S. Attorney General urging the Department of Justice to investigate the practices of the Inglewood Police Department to determine whether there was a pattern and practice of violations of civil rights or violations of federal criminal laws. Considering the relatively small size of the Inglewood Police Department, four fatal officer-involved shootings in four months was an indication to me that something was very wrong. Knowing that without corrective action, more innocent deaths could result from poor police practices, I felt it was incumbent on the U.S. Department of Justice to exercise their authority to investigate police departments that may be engaging in a pattern or practice of conduct, such as use of excessive force, that deprives persons of constitutional or other federal rights pursuant to the Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994, 42 U.S.C. §14141. In addition, the Department of Justice has authority for the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division to investigate deprivations of civil rights under the color of law the use of excessive force by law enforcement officers. I do not yet know all the details or scope of the investigation, but it is relief to know that the pattern and practice investigation that I requested has now begun. As I stressed earlier, my constituents need to know that their law enforcement officials will protect and serve them. My constituents also need to know that the law will be enforced fairly and promptly. The launch of this investigation is a good start. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) released the following statement: "I have been an outspoken advocate for minority communities and businesses in California and nationally for decades. Recent press reports have raised questions about my advocacy on behalf of minority banks. Ultimately, however, these articles only revealed one thing: I am indeed an advocate for minority banks. "Despite my public and consistent advocacy, news reports suggest that somehow I have acted improperly. "Let me set the record straight: "The National Bankers Association (NBA), the leading trade organization which represents the interests of America's minority-owned banks, requested a meeting with Treasury Department officials last year as the financial crisis was unfolding, jeopardizing the health of banks large and small. It is important to clarify that this meeting was requested and scheduled on behalf of the NBA, not on behalf of OneUnited Bank as press reports suggest. The attached letter from NBA to Treasury indicates the intent of the meeting and the dire concern expressed by the association on behalf of its members (1). The NBA contacted Treasury directly just as other trade associations did, to request a meeting so that its members could discuss their concerns regarding the situations facing minority banks. I followed up on the association's request by asking Treasury Secretary Paulson to schedule such a meeting, as did other members of Congress. Secretary Paulson recognized that the NBA's concerns about the future of minority banks were valid and arranged for a meeting in early September. "I did not attend the meeting, and thus did not participate in the conversation. Press reports of the meeting focus on concerns expressed on behalf of a single bank. However, NBA's follow up letter to Treasury, reiterates the organization's concerns about the fiscal health of its members generally (2). "The press reports also perpetuate a misconception about the way in which funds from the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) are distributed to banks requesting assistance. The Executive Branch administers TARP funds, not Congress. In particular, the Treasury Department and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) decide which financial institutions should receive funds. As reported, Treasury officials admit that the decision to distribute TARP funds to OneUnited Bank were based on the merits of the banks request, not based on anything said at the September meeting and not based on political influence. (Although both my supporters and detractors often refer to me as influential, the truth is that I had no influence on what Bush Administration officials in the Treasury Department or other departments did.) "My husband Ambassador Sidney Williams, who has represented the United States as an Ambassador and has been a respected and active member of the Los Angeles community for many years, was asked to sit on the board of OneUnited Bank. This bank services our community and was the successor to the bank of which we had been customers at for many years. He accepted the position and did not accept any director's compensation for his work on behalf of the bank and the community it serves. "Despite suggestions to the contrary, I have fully disclosed all of my financial interests in official filings. These filings included the stock my husband purchased upon joining OneUnited's board (it is required under Massachusetts law, where OneUnited is headquartered, that individuals hold stock in a bank before joining its board). Furthermore, Ambassador Williams is proud to be invested in a minority owned community bank that was given an "outstanding" lending rating from its regulator for its lending activity in underserved communities in Los Angeles, where traditional banks have refused to lend. I even took additional steps beyond what is required of Members of Congress when I voluntarily and publicly disclosed my husband's relationship with OneUnited during an October 30, 2007 Financial Services Committee hearing entitled "Preserving and Expanding Minority Banks."(3) Both the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Office of Thrift Supervision were present at this hearing. "The federal government has a legal obligation to support minority banks, as explicitly stated in the Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA). In particular, Section 308 of FIRREA insists that the federal government take an active role in the preservation of the number and nature of minority banks. I have previously worked to ensure that the government is held accountable in this regard, and I will continue efforts to promote the interests of minority banks. As recently as the 110th Congress, I exhibited my commitment through my participation in official Oversight hearings on minority banks, as well as the initiation of a Government Accountability Office (GAO) study on the effectiveness of mandated government assistance to minority banks. "In addition to this focus on banks, I authored three separate provisions, two of which became law, to insure small, women and minority owned businesses could fully participate in federal contracting opportunities. Unfortunately, most Federal agencies have ignored minority participation laws and failed to make reasonable attempts to assist small, minority and women-owned banks and businesses as required by law. "I maintain that my advocacy on behalf of small, women, minority and community banks is appropriate. I will continue to bank and do business with minority depository institutions and work on behalf of my constituents, and the institutions that serve them. National Bankers Association - Comments Regarding Impact on Minority Banks National Bankers Association - Minority Bank Capital Restoration Program Disclosure###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced that she has asked Attorney General Eric Holder to initiate a federal investigation by the Department of Justice into allegations of voter fraud in Inglewood, California. Inglewood Mayor Roosevelt Dorn informed the Congresswoman of suspicious activity involving unsigned absentee ballot requests that were delivered to his office. A copy of the letter that Congresswoman Waters sent to the Attorney General appears below. April 1, 2008 The Honorable Eric Holder Attorney General of the United States Department of Justice 950 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, DC 20530 Dear Mr. Attorney General: I am writing today regarding allegations of voter fraud in Inglewood, California. It is my understanding that some of these allegations have been raised previously with officials of Los Angeles County and the California Secretary of State, but to date, no one has been charged or indicted. Unfortunately, allegations and accusations relating to elections in Inglewood have persisted over the years. However, I just learned from the Mayor of Inglewood, the Honorable Roosevelt Dorn, of a particular situation that seems to clearly constitute voter fraud and therefore now seek your immediate assistance. According to Mayor Dorn, the United States Post Office recently delivered two packages to the Mayor's office. The first contained 176 absentee ballot requests, and the following day, another package contained 4 absentee ballot requests; none of the absentee ballot requests were signed and none had postage stamps for them to be delivered. When the Mayor opened the package and discovered the absentee ballot requests, he suspected that something inappropriate may have occurred, so he made copies of each absentee ballot request. The Mayor investigated the absentee ballot requests by arranging visits and calls to the voters whose names were listed, and he learned that none of those listed had requested an absentee ballot. It appears that the Mayor has uncovered a scheme where certain individuals request absentee ballots through the unauthorized use of voter names. The absentee ballot requests are mailed out as if they will be used by the named voters but are instead held by certain individuals until election night when the absentee ballots are then cast by unauthorized individuals. This type of scheme would finally explain a number of unexpectedly close elections. Mr. Attorney General, I believe this matter must be investigated at the federal level to determine the extent of this scheme and to end it as expeditiously as possible. If, as it appears, the voting rights of my constituents have been violated, then the perpetrators should be prosecuted and punished to full extent of the law. No voter should ever have to wonder if the ballot box has been tampered with or if their vote has been miscounted. Thank you in advance for your prompt and thorough attention to this matter. Sincerely, Maxine Waters Member of Congress
07.15.2009	Appropriations Requests, Rep. Maxine Waters, California 35th Grantee Project Name Address Amount Summary African-American Male Achievers Network, Inc. (A-MAN) STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) Education Project 6709 La Tijera Blvd #920, Los Angeles, CA 90045 $383,000 The purpose of the earmark is to provide students access to year-round technology enrichment activities and opportunities to explore STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) related education and career paths. This funding will increase the academic achievement of inner city students and decrease their gang involvement and community violence. Beyond Shelter Early Intervention Demonstration Project 1200 Wilshire Boulevard, #600. Los Angeles, CA 90017 $750,000 Through a multi-disciplinary, community-based approach, Beyond Shelter proposes a one-year demonstration project to provide early crisis intervention services to at-risk families in South Los Angeles affected by the current economic crisis. Black Business Association Minority Business Stimulus Participation Project P.O. Box 43159, Los Angeles, CA 90043 $150,000 Approval of this request will fund outreach and technical assistance to small and minority businesses that go largely uninformed about businesses assistance programs and are thereby disenfranchised from opportunities that have potential to support growth and sustainability. Funding will be used for the Black Business Association (BBA) to conduct a grassroots campaign consisting primarily of workshops, technical assistance, information dissemination at business-related special events, and hands-on individualized assistance through one-on-one meetings. City of Gardena Economic Development/Revitalization of the Rosecrans Corridor 1700 West 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247 $210,000 The City of Gardena is currently pursuing development of design guidelines for signage and painting. Uniform signage and paint colors on the Corridor will not only create a better appearance on Rosecrans, but will also promote small business. City of Gardena Gardena Public Safety Surveillance Initiative 1700 West 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247 $750,000 The City-wide surveillance camera project has been developed as a progressive and innovative method for reducing crime. The funds would help provide public safety and enhance security for the citizens of Gardena. City of Gardena Gardena Senior Day Care & Alzheimer's Clinic 1700 West 162nd Street, Gardena, CA 90247 $500,000 For construction of a Senior Day Care and Alzheimer's clinic in Gardena. The total amount will be for construction of the facility on City-owned property. City of Hawthorne Citywide Sewer Capital Improvement Project 4455 W. 126th Street, Hawthorne, CA. 90250 $1,000,000 This project makes improvements to the 80 year old City sewer system which will reduce sanitary sewer overflow and prevent pollution of our watershed and beaches. City of Hawthorne Rosecrans Avenue/405 Freeway Ramp Improvement Project 4455 W. 126th Street, Hawthorne, CA. 90250 $500,000 This project will widen the north side of Rosecrans within the project limit adding a free right turn lane from 405 Rosecrans off ramp to westbound Rosecrans. City of Hawthorne Hawthorne Boulevard Mobility Improvement Project 4455 W. 126th Street, Hawthorne, CA. 90250 $750,000 The Hawthorne Boulevard Mobility Improvement Project enhances existing multi-modal services, as well as integrating new modal elements such as a Class II Bicycle Lane, improved pedestrian support such as pedestrian crossing signals with countdown capability, improved access between transit vehicles and transit patrons through relocation and adjustment of transit stops and improved signalization along the Boulevard, all of which provide a well-balanced network of circulation to the region. City of Inglewood Law Enforcement Technology Upgrades and Infrastructure Improvements One Manchester Blvd, Inglewood, CA. 90312 $1,000,000 The purpose of this project is to replace the current analog voice radio network with a digital system for the Inglewood Police Department. It is the desire of the Police Department to obtain funding from single or multiple sources, to join the local law enforcement consortium known as "ICIS" or Interagency Communications Interoperability System. City of Inglewood Century Boulevard Pedestrian Safety and Transportation Improvement Project One Manchester Blvd, Inglewood, CA. 90312 $35,000,000 The Century Boulevard Improvement Project is designed to make needed roadway improvements to this key arterial and improve pedestrian access to regional transit system infrastructure, community attractions, employment centers, faith-based institutions and smaller venues City of Inglewood Water System Reliability Program Improvement Project One Manchester Blvd, Inglewood, CA. 90312 $850,000 Water treatment facility improvements will be provided to treat groundwater discharged from the new wells into the City's transmission and distribution system or reservoirs, for bacteriological, inorganic or organic contaminants as deemed appropriate through water quality testing procedures as designated by the State Department of Public Health. City of Inglewood City-wide Sewer System and Preservation and Expansion One Manchester Blvd, Inglewood, CA. 90312 $660,000 The City of Inglewood needs to upgrade the City's water, sewer and storm drainage infrastructure due to age and the difficultly sustaining the high level of maintenance required to ensure water supply reliability and water quality, as well as provide sanitary drainage facilities. City of Inglewood Youth Employment and Technical Skills Training Program One Manchester Blvd, Inglewood, CA. 90312 $1,200,000 To implement the Inglewood Youth Employment and Technical Skills Training Program that targets youth 18 to 25 years old who tend to be the most chronically unemployed segment of the community. City of Lawndale New Community Center 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA. 90260 $1,200,000 Construction of a new community center will allow the City to expand and develop new youth, adult and senior programs. City of Lawndale Inglewood Avenue Widening 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA. 90260 $1,523,200 The project will include environmental review, design, and construction as necessary to widen Inglewood Avenue to accommodate a third southbound lane and a raised center median. The project includes street widening; installation of a raised landscape median; ROW acquisition: sidewalk, curb and gutter improvements; pavement rehabilitation; traffic signal modifications, private improvements; ADA upgrades; traffic signing and striping, and peripheral improvements. City of Lawndale Manhattan Beach Boulevard Modernization 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA. 90260 $1,440,000 This project will make modifications to Manhattan Beach Boulevard from Inglewood Avenue to Prairie Avenue. The project entails design and construction of underground conduit, service lines, upgrading property services with panels compatible with underground service, removal of overhead power lines, and removal of power poles, utility coordination, and related work necessary to underground the facilities. Non-utility improvements include planting street trees, landscaping the center medians, and installation of pedestrian benches and an irrigation system. City of Lawndale Rosencrans Ave Rehabilitation 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA. 90260 $800,000 The project will make various street improvements to Rosecrans Avenue from Inglewood Avenue and Prairie Avenue, a length of one mile. Work includes installation of a raised landscaped center median; traffic signal modifications; traffic signing and striping, pavement rehabilitation; repair of deficient curb and gutter, sidewalk, and drive approaches; ADA wheelchair ramps rehabilitation, and peripheral improvements. City of Lawndale Storm Drain Improvements 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA. 90260 $768,900 This project will install new storm drain lines on 153rd Street, Sayler Avenue, Firmona Avenue and Rixford Avenue. City of Lawndale Traffic Signal Improvements 14717 Burin Avenue, Lawndale, CA. 90260 $680,000 The project will make traffic signal improvements citywide. It will include traffic signal synchronization to mitigate pass-thru traffic impacts. The signal improvements will provide modernization to 25 traffic signals, replacement of traffic signal poles, mast arms, signal heads, crosswalks, pedestrian heads, cross gutters, and striping. First Community Development Corporation (FCDC) Computer Lab Resource Center 9550 Crenshaw Boulevard, Inglewood, CA. 90305 $200,000 The Business Skills Development Program will provide financial literacy workshops and apprenticeship training programs for the community of Inglewood, CA with the intent of encouraging small business entrepreneurship and retention in the community. The program objective is to provide training classes in the areas of Computer Literacy, software training, the Internet, Job Search skills. This program will also have computer lab hours available for individuals to come in and utilize the computers during business hours. This would provide a total of 2300 hours per year of computer access to the community. HITCO Carbon Composites Next Generation Light Weight Shaped Composite Armor Systems Development 1600 West 135th St. Gardena, CA 90429 $5,000,000 Responding to current and emerging ballistic threats, this program will save lives by developing and providing high performance and low cost lightweight armor systems for the military. LA Opportunities Industrialization Center Pathways to Independence 4907 West Washington Blvd. Suite 202. Los Angeles, CA 90016 $200,000 A reading enrichment program and workforce development program geared to enhance literacy among low to moderate income at-risk citizens. This is a program that not only supports literacy in youth but promotes parental involvement and improved literacy in the family. Provides direction for continued education of post high school graduates as well as workforce development assuring real value for dollars invested. Los Angeles Southwest College Transition from Entry to Successful Completion using Student Success Teams 1600 West Imperial Highway. Los Angeles, CA 90047 $568,100 Will establish an institutional program that enhances LA Southwest's capabilities in increasing retention of students through successful completion using student success teams and mentors. Los Angeles Southwest College LASC Health Careers Regional Academy 1600 West Imperial Highway. Los Angeles, CA 90047 $930,000 To provide for equipment and instructors to provide job-ready individuals within a short time for multiple positions in the allied health field. Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) Adult Education Program Los Angeles Unified School District (LAUSD) Adult Education Program 10925 S. Central Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90059 $1,000,000 The grant will be used to purchase instructional/program enhancements--materials, state-of-the-art tools and equipment, computers, and other classroom supports--to ensure the best possible training opportunity enabling MWEPC students to acquire entry level employment in small businesses. Loyola Marymount University Frank R. Seaver Science Center 1 Loyola Drive, Los Angeles , CA 90045 $2,200,000 To renovate and upgrade existing research, laboratory and classroom space and secure key pieces of research equipment Flyer Defense LLC Light Mobility Vehicle – Internally Transportable Vehicle 260 W. Beach Avenue, Inglewood, CA. 90302 $5,000,000 The LMV-ITV will perform multiple missions including Search and Rescue and medical evacuation (MEDEVAC) operations. This vehicle will expand Air Force's operational capabilities in remote, rugged terrain that our forces are serving in today and in the future. Mini 12 Step Mini House Residential Center for Women and Children 303 E. 52nd St., Los Angeles, CA 90011 $1,000,000 The mission of Mini Twelve Step House programs is to provide housing and supportive services to women and women with children, who are formerly homeless, at risk, substance abusers and/or mentally disabled. Funding is requested to redo the structure that houses the six month residential treatment program located at 303 E. 52nd St. Moneta Gardens Improvement The Avenidas (Avenues) 11802 York Ave, Hawthorne, CA 90250 $300,000 MGI proposes to improve the health outcomes of Hawthorne's vulnerable minority population by addressing the health priority areas of asthma, obesity/overweight, and STDs/HIV infections. Over the course of the grant cycle, the project will feature three types of activities: 1) Educational outreach presentations to promote the awareness and prevention of asthma, obesity/overweight and STDs/HIV infections; 2) Asthma, obesity/overweight and STDs/HIV screening services for teenagers and adults; and 3) Referrals to ensure that participants are provided services for necessary medical treatment related to this project's health priorities. Parents Anonymous Inc. Parents Anonymous South Los Angeles 675 West Foothill Blvd. Suite 220. Claremont, CA 91711 $375,000 To implement Parents Anonymous weekly support groups for parents, children and youth to strengthen families by preventing delinquency and child maltreatment through this unique evidence-based, community empowerment model of shared leadership. South Bay Latino Community Development Corporation South Bay Latino Community Development Corporation (SBLCDC) 13545 South Hawthorne Blvd., Suite 201. Hawthorne, CA 90250 $350,000 The SBLCDC, which promotes and advocates economic development in the underserved areas of the South Bay area in Los Angeles County, will work with local, state and federal agencies to foster, maintain and increase a healthy economic climate for local businesses. The SBLCDC will directly provide business development and technical assistance to the business owners in the South Bay area. We will offer business to business networking opportunities for our members including advertisement opportunities in our quarterly newsletters and website and provide in-depth business resources and services to the entrepreneur through seminars. Businesses will also be promoted through the awarding of scholarships to local students. We will work with corporate entities, charitable organizations and non-profits to promote business opportunities and networking for our community, as well as serve as an economic multiplier. South Bay Workforce Investment Board National Center for Applied Sustainable Manufacturing 11539 Hawthorne Boulevard, 5th floor. Hawthorne, CA 90250 $3,452,966 The National Center for Applied Sustainable Manufacturing (NCASM) will provide applied, state of the art workforce education in sustainable manufacturing practice. The NCASM, consisting of four facilities in the South Bay area of L.A. County, will serve as a national demonstration site for environmentally sustainable manufacturing process, and inter-segmental workforce education in Sustainable Lean Manufacturing. Centinela Youth Services, Inc. Parent Efficacy Program 11539 Hawthorne Boulevard, 5th floor. Hawthorne, CA 90250 $500,000 The Parent Efficacy Program seeks to provide critical services to the parents of high risk youth, 14 – 18 years of age, in order to strengthen their ability to foster healthy development in the home so that their children succeed at school and in life. TELACU TELACU Neighborhood Stabilization Corporation 5400 E. Olympic Blvd., Los Angeles, CA 90022 $2,000,000 A rent-to-own program for families to acquire bank-owned single family homes. Federal funding will be equally matched by TELACU for use as equity to purchase discounted bulk portfolio of homes from a bank. Local families will rent to own over 5-7 year period, thereby stabilizing communities by preventing increasing numbers of vacant homes. University Muslim Medical Association (UMMA) Community Clinic Capital Expansion Project 711 West Florence Ave. Los Angeles, CA 90037 $1,000,000 Now designated as a Federally Qualified Health Center (FQHC), UMMA expects its patient population to grow by 45 percent over the next two years. Facilities expansion will increase our patients' access to care and improve health outcomes, while allowing us to continue to serve as a national model for the provision of culturally sensitive healthcare to low-income and ethnically diverse patient populations. Watts Cinema and Education Center, Inc. Youth Entrepreneurship Program 10124 S. Broadway, Ste. 110-D. Los Angeles, CA 90003 $330,000 The Wattstar Theatre and Education Center is a model project in the heart of Watts and is going to bridge together the youth and the jobs that exist in the entertainment industries. This funding will be used to fund a Youth Entrepreneurship Program for students and an Introduction to Entertainment Program for students. Watts Cinema and Education Center, Inc. Wattstar Theatre and Education Center Construction 10124 S. Broadway, Ste. 110-D. Los Angeles, CA 90003 $1,000,000 This funding will allow for the construction of the Wattstar Theatre and Education Center. West Basin Municipal Water Harbor/South Bay Water Recycling Project 17140 S. Avalon Blvd, Suite 210. Carson, CA 90746
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35), who chairs the Housing and Community Opportunity Subcommittee and has been a leader of foreclosure prevention efforts, joined Shaun Donovan, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) during his visit to Los Angeles today for a tour of several foreclosed properties in South Los Angeles. The purpose of Secretary Donovan's visit was to assess the impact of foreclosures on Los Angeles neighborhoods and visit properties that the City of L.A. Housing Department hopes to purchase and rehabilitate through the Neighborhood Stabilization Program (NSP). "I am a strong supporter of the Neighborhood Stabilization Program, and even more so, after seeing some specific neighborhoods here in the local community that will benefit from federal funding," said Congresswoman Waters. Congresswoman Waters spearheaded the effort in Congress to create and fund NSP. She introduced legislation last year to provide funding for states, counties and cities to assist communities hit hardest by the foreclosure crisis and worked to build support among her colleagues in Congress and among advocacy groups. The Housing and Economic Recovery Act passed by Congress in July 2008 included almost $4 billion in neighborhood stabilization funding, after Congresswoman Waters insisted such funds remain in the legislation despite President Bush's veto threat. This year, Congresswoman Waters fought for and obtained the inclusion of an additional $2 billion for NSP in the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that became law in February 2009. In the first round of NSP funding, California's state and local governments received a total of $530 million, including nearly $33 million for the City of Los Angeles and nearly $17 million for the County of Los Angeles. HUD will accept applications in May from states, local governments and non-profits for a second round of NSP funding and award grants by July. Congresswoman Waters, Secretary Donovan, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, and other local officials held a news conference in front 213 E. 90th Street, a single family property that is an example of an NSP property that the community-based development entity Restore Neighborhoods L.A. hopes to acquire and rehabilitate for sale to low or moderate-income homebuyer to occupy as their primary residence. "I thank Secretary Donovan for visiting Los Angeles. California has had more foreclosures than any other state, and almost one quarter of them are in Los Angeles County. Today as we toured local neighborhoods, I was able to show the Secretary the impact of the foreclosure crisis on California and discuss some of the creative, innovative responses being implemented by the City of Los Angeles. I am confident that partnerships created by the Obama Administration, Congress, local governments and non-profit organizations will enable our communities to overcome the significant challenges we face in preventing foreclosures and preserving communities," said Congresswoman Waters. ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) held a press conference today to announce over $10 million in federal funding for 19 projects throughout her Congressional District. Funding for the projects was included in the fiscal year 2009 omnibus appropriations legislation passed by the United States Congress and recently signed into law by President Obama. Congresswoman Waters was joined by community leaders from throughout the 35th Congressional District at the event held at Lawndale City Hall. Congresswoman Waters released the following statement: "I am proud to announce that I have secured over $10 million dollars for projects in my Congressional district in the appropriations process for fiscal year 2009. In this time of economic hardship, I know how it is important it is to invest in our communities, and this funding will go a long way for the citizens of the 35th district. The project awards include funding for our community's education system, our small businesses, our infrastructure and our environment. I have worked for many months with the community leaders here today from Inglewood, Lawndale, Gardena, Hawthorne, and Los Angeles to make sure funding was directed to where it was needed the most. "I worked with leaders in Congress to make sure that the highest level of scrutiny was given to each project funded this year, and I am confident that this money will be put to good use in our community. I am pleased with the progress we are making in improving the lives of our residents, and I will continue to work to ensure that we have all possible resources available to do so." The list of funded projects and the amount of funding they have received follows. Project Awards: $10,053,041 for the 35th District of California Diabetic Amputation Prevention Foundation, The Black Barbershop Health Outreach Program: $238,000 Los Angeles Southwest College, Nursing Program Technology and Capacity Building: $285,000 South Bay Workforce Investment Board, The Bridge-to-Work Program: $95,000 Alzheimer's Association, Caregiver Education & Outreach and Public Awareness Campaign: $190,000 Community Build, Inc., Gang Prevention and Community Safety Project: $150,000 City of Refuge Economic Development Corporation, AOH Re-Entry Employment Project: $70,000 City of Gardena, Gardena Public Safety Surveillance: $380,000 City of Inglewood, Inglewood City Voice Radio Interoperable Communication Infrastructure Upgrade: $500,000 City of Lawndale, Design and Construction of a Community Center: $475,000 City of Gardena, Economic Development/Revitalization of the Rosecrans Corridor: $190,000 Municipal Transit Operators Coalition, Clean Fuel Purchase and Facility Improvements: $475,000 Los Angeles Southwest College, LA Southwest College Western Transit Center: $712,000 Marvin Engineering, Internally Transported Vehicle: $1,600,000 Loyola Marymount University, Rapid Prototyping and Nanotechnology Initiative: $800,000 City of Inglewood, Water System Reliability Project: $143,000 West Basin Municipal Water District, Harbor/South Bay Water Recycling Project: $2,871,000 City of Lawndale, Firmona Avenue Storm Drain Construction: $350,000 City of Inglewood, Business Development Program: $430,757 First Community Development Corporation, Business Skills Development Program: $98,257 ###
07.15.2009	Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) announced that she has requested federal funding for local transportation projects as the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure considers new surface transportation authorization legislation to replace legislation known as SAFETEA-LU (the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy for Users), which expires on September 30th. Congresswoman Waters has designated the following as high-priority transportation projects for the 35th Congressional District: City of Gardena $ 1.488 million to expand bus service by Gardena Municipal Bus Lines $ 1.2 million for improvements to Vermont Ave $ 1.6 million for improvements to Crenshaw Blvd City of Hawthorne $ 3.1 million for improvements to Rosecrans Ave $ 2.8 million for improvements to the Aviation Blvd/Marine Ave intersection City of Inglewood $ 22.28 million for the Century Blvd Pedestrian Safety and Transportation Improvement Project $ 4.4 million for the La Cienega Blvd Grade Separation Project City of Lawndale $ 2.8 million for traffic signals and related intersection improvements $ 1.6 million for a city-wide bicycle transit system $ 2.4 million for street and storm drain improvements City of Los Angeles $8 million for the LACMTA-Green Line Extension to LAX in the City of Los Angeles $768,000 for improvements to Broadway intersections in the City of Los Angeles Los Angeles County $ 2.214 million to develop the LACCD Regional Student Transit Pass Demonstration Project, to reduce bus fares for college students ###
07.15.2009	Are you ready for the June 12th DTV transition? On June 12, 2009, all television programming in the United States will shift from an analog signal to a digital signal. Televisions that use an analog signal to receive their programming might not function properly. Congresswoman Waters wants you to have the information you need to prepare for the DTV transition so you can continue to get news, information, and entertainment programming on television. Newer televisions often include a digital tuner and are able to receive the new DTV signal. Also, if you subscribe to a pay TV service, you should have no problems after the DTV transition but can check with their cable company or satellite provider. However, if you use a TV set with "rabbit ears" or a rooftop antenna it might not receive programming after June 12th unless you connect it to a TV Converter Box. Get a $40 Coupon for a TV Converter Box A TV converter box plugging it into your current television will allow you to receive your normal television programming. You do not have to buy a new television. The Federal Government is offering a $40 dollar coupon to help you buy a converter box for your current television set; each household is eligible to receive up to two coupons. To request the coupon, please visit www.dtv2009.gov or call 1-888-DTV-2009 (1-888-388-2009). This consumer hotline is available 24 hours a day. More information about the DTV transition is available at www.dtv.gov and 1-888-CALL-FCC (1-888-225-5322). There are nonprofit and community organizations ready to help • The Leadership Conference on Civil Rights has a section of its web site dedicated to the DTV transition. From finding out who is affected by the transition to checking your television brand and model, this is an important tool to be aware of and to utilize. Please visit www.civilrights.org/dtv/ • The public television station KCET, which serves Southern California, also has some excellent information available in English and en español at www.kcet.org/about/DTV/resources.php Attend a public event in Los Angeles to learn more about DTV June 6, 3:00PM-8:00PM DTV Demo & Info at Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza 3650 Martin Luther King Blvd Los Angeles 90008 June 7, 11:00AM-6:00PM DTV Demo & Info at Baldwin Hills Crenshaw Plaza 3650 Martin Luther King Blvd Los Angeles, CA 90008 June 9, 6:00PM-9:00PM Exhibit 4650 W. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90019 June 10, 1:30PM-3:00PM Smarter Seniors Forum 4750 West 62nd Street Los Angeles, CA 90056 June 11, 8:30AM-1:30AM DTV Outreach - L.A. 767 N. Hill St. Los Angeles, CA 90012 June 11, 12:00PM-6:00PM DTV Outreach - L.A. walk-in Center 639 N. Hill Street Los Angeles, CA 90012 June 11, 10:30AM-1:30AM DTV Clinic 5306 S. Compton Los Angeles, CA 90011 June 12, 10:00AM-6:00PM DTV Outreach - L.A. walk-in Center 639 N. Hill Street Los Angeles, CA 90012 June 13, 12:30PM-4:00PM Exhibit 4035 Tweedy Boulevard South Gate, CA 90280 In addition to these resources, my staff is available to help residents of my district who need assistance making the transition to DTV. My office can provide information in English and Spanish. Please contact my office in Los Angeles at (323) 757-8900. ###
07.15.2009	Concerned about the methods used to screen airline cargo at Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) and the nation's other airports as well as the fact that much cargo carried on passenger flights remains unscreened, Congresswoman Maxine Waters (CA-35) is calling on the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) to inform Congress about current cargo screening practices. She is also requesting that TSA – the agency created to protect the nation's transportation system after 9/11 – provide a progress report on meeting its mandate to screen 100 percent of air cargo by August of 2010. Congresswoman Waters today submitted two amendments to the Homeland Security Appropriations Act (H.R. 2892): the LAX Cargo Screening Reporting Amendment and the Cargo Screening Reporting Amendment. "LAX is located in my Congressional district. It serves my constituents as well as millions of other Americans and travelers from all over the world and is also a major hub for cargo shipments. The safety of LAX, its passengers and employees is of vital importance to the communities I represent, to California's economy and to national security. I want to make sure that we are doing everything possible to safeguard the airport and our country, and this includes thoroughly screening all cargo transported on passenger flights arriving at or leaving from LAX," said Congresswoman Waters. According to the airport's web site, LAX is the 6th busiest airport in the world for passengers and ranks 13th in the world in air cargo handled. In 2008, airlines at LAX served 59.8 million passengers and handled 1.8 million tons of cargo. "I don't want to unduly alarm the public about the safety of traveling through LAX or any other airport, but neither should we have a false sense of security," said Congresswoman Waters. "The fact of the matter is that today, almost eight years after the tragedy of 9/11, much airline cargo is loaded onto passenger flights without having been screened for explosives." After the 9/11 terrorist attacks in 2001, the TSA was created by Congress and required to provide for the screening of all passengers and property transported on passenger aircraft in the United States. This includes cargo, U.S. mail, checked baggage, and carry-on baggage. However, currently, much cargo is still loaded on passenger airplanes without being screened for explosives. Although TSA directly screens all air passengers and their baggage before they board commercial aircraft, cargo screening continues to be the responsibility of individual airlines, and much of the cargo carried in "the belly of the plane" is not screened at all. In 2007, approximately 7.6 billion pounds of cargo was transported on passenger aircraft in the United States. Fifty-six percent was transported on domestic flights, and 44 percent was transported into the United States on board international flights. The 9/11 Commission Act, which was enacted in 2007, required TSA to establish a system to physically screen 50 percent of cargo on passenger aircraft by February of 2009, and 100 percent of such cargo by August of 2010. There is considerable reason to doubt whether TSA is making adequate progress towards this mandate, especially with regards to cargo on flights arriving from international airports. On March 31, 2009, during a hearing before the Subcommittee on Homeland Security of the Committee on Appropriations, Gale Rossides, the Acting Administrator of TSA, testified that "we are confident that the industry is currently screening at least 50 percent of air cargo transported on passenger aircraft on flights originating in the United States." She admitted that it is unlikely that TSA will be able to meet the mandate to screen 100 percent of air cargo on board international flights. Congresswoman Waters' amendments would require TSA to submit a report to Congress regarding the status of air cargo screening at LAX and nationwide respectively and the progress TSA has made in meeting its mandate to screen 100 percent of such cargo by August of 2010. The reports would be submitted within 90 days after enactment and would address cargo from both domestic and international departure points and describe each of the methods used to screen cargo, including hand inspection, visual inspection, explosive detection systems, and shipping from secured facilities. ###
